The following lines contains multiple episode transcripts of a Dungeons and Dragons game played by a group of players. Each episode transcript is delimited by [START OF EPISODE] and [END OF EPISODE]. The transcripts are followed by a question about the game statistics. Answer the question based on the transcripts. Do not try to guess, estimate or approximate the result. Do not ask the user for clarification or follow-up. Do step-by-step reasoning if needed. Return the final answer in \boxed{{}}. 

The following lines contain the mapping between player names and character names.
Matt plays the character DM.
Laura plays the character Vex'ahlia.
Travis plays the character Grog.
Marisha plays the character Keyleth.
Orion plays the character Tiberius.
Taliesin plays the character Percy.
Liam plays the character Vax'ildan.
Sam plays the character Taryon.
Ashley plays the character Pike.
Felicia plays the character Lyra.
Mary plays the character Zahra.
Wil plays the character Thorbir.
Will plays the character Kashaw.
Kit plays the character Lillith.
Jason plays the character Garthok.
Chris hardwick plays the character Gern.
Chris perkins plays the character Shale.
Patrick plays the character Kerrek.
Noelle plays the character Tova.
Jon plays the character Lionel.
Darin plays the character Sprigg.
Joe plays the character Arkhan.

Use this mapping when answering the questions below.

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Everyone, welcome to the new episode of Critical Role. This evening, we luckily have Ashley Johnson back in as her character Pike. Unfortunately, Laura Bailey will be gone for most of the game, possibly, she might come in, 'cause she's busy recording a show with Wil Wheaton. It's gonna be a great show, but we'll miss her, until she shows up. However, we shall see what the next chapter has in store in just a moment. In the meantime, let's go ahead and get you situated with the character backgrounds.
Travis: Right, listen up. If you have ale, then you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw. A goliath of towering height and size. This barbarian has an appetite for the two great loves in his life: combat, women, and ale. (record scratch) Wait. Easily the brains of the group, Grog is often consulted for his vast knowledge of shapes, colors, and (giggles), shiny things. But also ale. In his early years, armed with his two handed gray axe, Grog often enjoyed proving his might amongst the ranks of his family's wandering herd. But after coming upon an unsuspecting elderly gnome in the woods, he objected to the killing of such an innocent life. A creature of impulse, Grog felt only pity for this, this terrified little thing. His disobedience cost him dearly. Beaten bloody, and banished by the herd leader, his uncle Kevdak, Grog was abandoned, and left to die. Exiled from his herd, it was then that the relative of the very gnome he fought to save, saved him. It was the kindness of a gnome cleric named Pike that healed Grog, bringing him back from death's edge. And they have remained close friends ever since. Most nights, Grog can be found challenging entire taverns to wrestling matches. Or accompanying Scanlan to the nearest house, where you pay for lady favors. Also ale.
Marisha: A first impression of Keyleth would leave you with little information on the half-elven druid. You might even think that her social awkwardness due to her sheltered upbringing is kind of sweet. Of course it would be unwise to underestimate her based on first impressions. (thunder clap) Under that unintimidating, petite frame is a vicious beast, waiting to be unleashed, whose natural powers have made even the fiercest of champions pee their pants. Literally. (giggles) Born to the air tribe of the Ashari people, Keyleth was raised with a deep love of nature and the elemental magics. It is her people's inherent duty to protect the delicate areas in Tal'Dorei where the four elemental planes begin to bleed with this realm. Since she was a little girl, she had quite a knack for air manipulation, and beast shaping abilities. Well, if you consider kittens and flying squirrels to be little beasts. Which, I do. Anyways. It wasn't long before the headmaster of the tribe, her father, Korren, realized her true prodigious abilities, and she was inveterated to succeed him as the next headmaster. Just like that, her jovial childhood was stripped, and replaced with endless spell memorization, teachings from ancient traditions, and exceedingly high expectations. Every druid leader-to-be must embark on a journey to seek out the sister tribes in order to introduce and establish respect amongst the fellow headmasters. They call this the Aramente, or Noble Odyssey. When her father felt she was ready, he set her on the path to truly discovering herself, not knowing when or if she will ever return. As she hiked down the mountain towards Stilben, she meditated on the task ahead. Part of the Aramente is proving yourself a strong warrior, a valiant protector, and a wise, and compassionate leader. With this knowledge, one thought plays in repeat in her mind: Is she even worthy?
Taliesin: Percy was the third of seven children, born to a noble family who lived far to the north, in the ancient castle of Whitestone. With so many siblings to share the burdens of lordship, Percy turned his attentions to the sciences, engineering, and naturalism. One day, a mysterious couple named Lord and Lady Briarwood came to court. During a feast held in their honor, the Briarwoods violently took control of the castle, killing or imprisoning everyone who would stand in their way. Percy awoke chained in the dungeon, only to be freed by his younger sister. Together they fled, chased by the Briarwoods' men. As they ran, Percy's sister took several arrows to the chest, and fell. Percy kept running, eventually jumping into a freezing river, and floating unconscious to freedom. He did not remember waking up on a fishing boat. He barely remembered the next two years as he slowly made his way as far south as possible. Then one night, Percy had a dream. A roaring cloud of smoke offered him vengeance against those who destroyed his family. When he awoke, Percy began to design his first gun. (gunshot)
Sam: Oh, you haven't heard of Scanlan Shorthalt? Well gird your loins ladies because he has his eyes on you. A talented musician, master of disguise, and dashingly handsome in his own mind, Scanlan sings songs almost as much as he sings his own praises. Born a poor gnome, Scanlan used his endless charm and soaring tenor voice to croon for coin and support his single mother. One day he was discovered by a half orc promoter, and joined Dr. Dranzel's Spectacular Traveling Troop, where he learned the ways of the world, and honed his skills as a bard extraordinaire. A loner much of his life, Scanlan has never quite come to terms with the violent death of his mother at the hands of a goblin invasion. While his years on the road provided many, shall we say, educational experiences with the opposite sex, deep down Scanlan yearns for the one thing he's never known: the true love of a fellow gnome. Still, Scanlan considers himself a lover first, performer second, and fighter a distant third. On the battlefield, he'll support his allies, but rarely draws blood, unless it's to protect fellow gnome, Pike. Count on Scanlan for a hearty laugh, a rollicking song, and a twinkle in his eye that melts hearts, and makes the females swoon. (sputtering)
Orion: Greetings, and salutations. I am Tiberius Stormwind. I hail from a town called Tirex, located in the heart of Draconia. Born from a politically respected family, at the age of 15, I succeeded in passing the sorcerer's right, showing prodigy-like control of my magic. The judges in the Draconian high council were amazed at how powerful my spells were for how long I had been training. At 20 years old, I was the youngest appointed member of the magic guild in Draconian history. For the next few years I almost went mad from the malaise of being a guild member, as it's rather boring. However, one day I happened upon a chamber, unused for quite some time. In the room were stacks of books and maps, of the surrounding cities and areas around the known world. For months I would frequent the chamber, and learn of artifacts from legend. After a long period of research, I made a list of artifacts that caught my eye. I brought these findings to the high council and was told that all of the information in the chamber I stumbled upon was either believed to be fiction or unsolvable mysteries, and hence were lost forever. I found those answers to be unacceptable. A year later I devised a ruse, and managed to convince the city council to lend support in me leaving Draconia on a mission of peace and diplomacy for the surrounding kingdoms, going from town to town and making friends and allies in and for the name of Draconia. Being a red dragonborn, I had quite the task on my hands, in that respect. But it was exactly what I needed, so I could explore the world and find these artifacts, as I felt the truth was out there. Some may describe me as buffoonish, but I say poppycock to all that! (sputtering) I am much sharper than most give me credit for. I just don't pay attention to things sometimes. I've also been known to be rather cunning, loyal, happy go lucky, and, well, dangerous. I can't help but show my true scales every now and then. But overall, I think I'm quite friendly for a dragonborn.
Liam: Never entirely welcome in the company of elves or men, Vax’ildan learned at a young age to skip past formality, preferring instead to invite himself in your door. Along with twin sister Vex'ahlia, Vax was born by a chance encounter between elven royalty and human peasantry. Raised by their mother in their early years, the twins were eventually sent off to their father in the elven capitol of Syngorn. But their cool reception among the elves there never warmed, and their time in the capitol didn't last. The siblings stole away one autumn night, and set out on the open road. After a few years of wandering, they eventually decided to return to their mother, and journey back to the lands of their youth. But instead of finding their childhood home, they returned to a pile of rubble. Their mother was gone, their home burned to ash. Pressing the townspeople for answers, they learned of the day the dragon came. (roaring) With their ties all severed, Vax’ildan and his sister set out to find their fortune together in Tal'dorei. An outsider since birth, Vax quickly learned to solve life's challenges in his own particular way, often by side-stepping them entirely. And when his knack for circumventing adversity isn't enough, (drawing blades) the way of blades the elves schooled him in more than makes up the difference.
Laura: Like so many half elves, Vex'ahlia has spent most of her life suffering the cool reception of a people who don't fully accept her. Born of a human mother and an elven father, who only later in life took an interest in their existence, Vex'ahlia and her twin brother Vax’ildan quickly realized the only people they could truly rely on in this world were each other. It was at the age of ten when the two were taken from their mother, and brought to live in Syngorn, the isolated elven city for which their father was an ambassador. He quietly took them in, but always kept an icy distance. And after too many years of disdainful looks, the pair decided to leave his indifference behind and set out on their own. Vax took to the cities, stealing small trinkets and learning the ways of a thief. While Vex kept to the woods. She preferred the isolation. Always the keen observer, she learned to hunt, and to track, to spy, and to shoot. And through a series of fateful events, earned herself a companion in the form of a bear-- her own stolen trinket-- to fight along side her and protect her fiercely. Also he is adorable. And gives expert massages.
Travis: Right, listen up. If you have ale, then you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw. A goliath of towering height and size, this Barbarian has an appetite for the two great loves in his life: combat, women, and ale. (record scratch) Wait. Easily the brains of the group, Grog is often consulted for his vast knowledge of shapes, colors, and (giggles), shiny things. But also ale. In his early years, armed with his two-handed great axe, Grog often enjoyed proving his might amongst the ranks of his family's wandering herd. But after coming upon an unsuspecting elderly gnome in the wood--
Matt: Welcome back. Unfortunately, we don't have Pike's video ready yet. I'm working on it.
Ashley: My bad.
Matt: This week got away from me, and Ashley got it to me a little late, but we'll have it up next week, don't worry. However we are happy to have Ashley with us. (all cheer) She's come down from her BAFTA cloud. (all laugh) Which is amazing, congratulations again.
Ashley: Thank you guys.
Matt: So yeah, as a heads up too, if you wanna do any quick announcements real fast, I think you had an announcement you wanted to make.
Ashley: It's my mom's birthday today. (all cheer)
Matt: Happy birthday Ashley's mom, yay!
Ashley: Her name's Nancy.
Liam: Hi Nancy.
Travis: Happy birthday, Nancy. Totally watching this right now.
Marisha: Is she watching?
Ashley: She probably is. (all laugh)
Matt: Well, hello! Also for those who are Hearthstone players, the new Black Hawk Mountain Expansion came out today, in which I voice Nefarian and Ragnaros. (all cheer) My vanilla-WoW-playing self from back in the day is nerding out over that, so enjoy that. Anyone have anything else they wanna announce or talk about? Are we good to start?
Sam: Hi, mom!
Marisha: Hi, mom.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: I don't think my mom knows what the internet is.
Orion: Related, I leveled my undead holy priest to 64 last night, on Warcraft.
Zac: We're just about a thousand happy--
Matt: Congrats. Way to go, level 64. So you're just barely into burning crusade, good man. (all laugh)
Taliesin: I got one too. My brother who also works in video games gave a talk at GVC this year, and it just went online, and not now but later you should watch Alex Jaffe's talk on metagame balancing. It's really really fun, it's fabulous, and you learn a lot.
Matt: There you go, Alex Jaffe, look it up.
Marisha: Alex is brilliant.
Matt: All right guys, so, getting to the game at hand. So little overview for the story, the party has been sent to the city of Kraghammer, through a friend of theirs named Arcanist Allura Vysoren. A good friend of hers and a folk hero throughout the land known as Lady Kima of Vord, who's the halfling paladin of Bahamut, has gone missing. She went on a vision quest as part of a pilgrimage she's been on for the past year, and sensed a dark evil brewing far beneath the city of Kraghammer. Disappeared into the city and hasn't been seen for weeks. So Arcanist Allura asked the party, hired them essentially, to go and see her whereabouts. Upon getting to Kraghammer, they interacted with some of the local characters, eventually found theirself talking to Lord Nostoc Greyspine, who owns the mines at the very bottom of Kraghammer proper. After a brief encounter with a mutated abomination of a Naga creature, they were then hired by lord Nostoc to go into the mines, find whatever's creating these abominations, destroy whatever is the source of them, and he will pay well and also pay for each creature head that is brought to him individually. After getting into the mines, a few battles ensue with some of the local denizens, couple of the umber hulks, that were turned into snails, and other interesting circumstances. The party then found what looked to be an entirely abandoned goblin city, and a series of goblinoid corpses, many of which had bored holes in their skull in various states of decay. They found a long bridge across an open chasm. Upon traversing it, Scanlan went invisible, and found what looked like a duergar war camp, which are like ashy-skinned, evil dwarves that live deep underground. Watched a dwarf get executed by what appeared to be some sort of strange alienoid creature, that was revealed to be an illithid, or a mind flayer. A being that is psychic and consumes brains.
Ashley: Brains!
Matt: Upon returning, the party had a plan to lead them off of a illusionary cliff, that went pretty well. Ended up taking out a significant portion of the charging army at the time. Vax here, however, got stunned on the way across by the one mind flayer, nearly fell, however was saved by Tiberius at the last moment. Nearly lost their magic carpet, but it was retrieved.
Ashley: Wait, you still have the magic carpet, right?
Matt: Yeah, it got recovered. Barely.
Marisha: We got it back, it's okay.
Travis: Not thanks to some.
Matt: (laughs) After brief discussion, Keyleth and Vex decided they didn't want to listen to anyone's bullshit, and hijacked magic carpet, flew down into the chasm below, and discovered behind one of the underground waterfalls some sort of a mind flayer who was cast out from the society, covered in rags, kind of a twisted physical form, and after a very tense discussion seemed to befriend it under the guise of mutually agreed retribution against those that are oppressive to this whole chasm area.
Marisha: Clarence.
Liam: Clarota.
Sam: Clarota.
Matt: Clarota. I don't think he'll take kindly to Clarence. However, this is where we left off the previous game.
Ashley: So nervous.
Matt: As you guys have gathered up, and you've finished your luxurious song to try and ease his torn form, he finishes tapping his toe in spite of himself. Looks about the rest of the group and says, once again, not vocally, but speaking directly into your mind, through a horrifying whispered voice that you cannot even close your ears to get rid of, "I think it's best we rest out of sight." He points across the chasm, to the war camp that is looming across the way. He begins to dart off towards the abandoned goblinoid village.
Orion: I guess we should follow him, then.
Sam: Yes, that's wise.
Taliesin: I think that's a great idea.
Sam: We follow.
Taliesin: No, nothing can be there.
Matt: As you guys make your way in toward the goblinoid village, you can see Clarota who is genuinely hovering about a foot off the ground, and kind of just coasting around in a very creepy way. Finds one tent, opens up and looks inside, "Here, here we can talk." Darts inside.
Travis: We follow.
Sam: We do follow, yes.
Matt: As you're following--
Travis: Oh crap.
Sam: Oh God, we're dead.
Travis: Why? Why would he touch his dice? We're gonna die!
Matt: As you're following towards the center of this town, you, see in the distance, a small light moving, back from the direction where you first saw that duergar camp, where Grog was assaulted.
Travis: I don't recall that.
Liam: Look back the way we came, there's some sort of light up ahead.
Orion: That can't be good.
Liam: Stay with Clarota, I'm gonna go take a look, Scanlan, come on.
Sam: I'm coming with.
Matt: Both of you guys roll stealth.
Travis: I'll stay outside the tent if somebody wants to ask him how to get a Magneto helmet like his. (all laugh) 'Cause I'm gonna need that.
Orion: I'll talk to him.
Sam: It's just a roll? Not great. Nine!
Liam: 29.
Taliesin: That's a number.
Matt: So, as you officially vanish into the ether and surrounding darkness, Scanlan, who still has that song stuck in his head from earlier, his slow jam is just... (laughs) Abstractedly humming to himself without realizing, and calling a little bit of attention, at which point you began to hear some footsteps in the distance that come to an immediate halt.
Liam: Grab Scanlan, put my hand over his mouth, and say, Quiet, man, what's wrong with you?
Sam: It's a nervous habit! I'm sorry! (all laugh)
Liam: With great power comes great responsibility, shut up!
Sam: It's a gift I have to share with the world!
Liam: Later, later. Save it for the mind flayer. So with him tucked under my arm like a football, I start to creep further. And try to make out-- if there's light from the lantern, I can see in dim light, thanks to daddy's blood, so. I'm gonna try to figure out what it is exactly that I'm seeing.
Matt: Go ahead and make a perception check.
Sam: I also have low light vision.
Matt: You can make perception check with disadvantage, because you're under his arm.
Liam: Perception check? Oh.
Sam: Nope.
Liam: Do I have any advantage on that?
Matt: No.
Liam: 11.
Matt: All right. Actually, directly looking in the direction of that duergar camp earlier, you can see behind a pillar that's blocking your view, it's obstructing your view of the actual camp proper, you can see some movement in the light. You hear some shuffling, it sounds like plate. You hear a voice just kind of muttering to itself. A familiar, female gnomish voice.
Liam: Pike?
Ashley: Hey guys! (all laugh)
Ashley: It's me, Pike!
Liam: Jeez, where have you been?
Ashley: Oh man, I've had quite a time. I've missed you guys terribly. A lot has happened. I'm sure for you guys as well.
Sam: Not so much.
Orion: I say into my thing, "Scanlan, what the hell's going on?"
Sam: Don't worry, it's a friend, we'll bring her back soon.
Orion: Okay, well, there's a mind flayer here.
Sam: Keep him busy. He likes slow jams.
Orion: Right, right.
Matt: As you guys take a look at Pike, you notice she's fully armored, but dirty, she's got sweat across her face, looks like she may have had a couple scuffles on the way through here.
Ashley: I did.
Matt: She's got a wild look to her eyes.
Sam: Oh my God.
Matt: Genuinely relieved to see you. Pike, you've managed to come down here through the front of the mines, which for the most part have been clear. You follow what details you can after asking around and discovering that the rest of your party had ventured below without you. You've followed the tracks best you can, and are glad that you at least chose the right path and ran into them before you ran into something far more dangerous. What you were inspecting was this campsite that appeared to have been abandoned. What caught your eye was against the stone wall right above the ring of stones that form the fire itself, there is a giant symbol carved into the stone that is a protective sigil of Bahamut, the platinum dragon, which is a religious symbol of protection, used in different divine rituals.
Liam: We were looking at that, we couldn't make heads or tails of it. You ever seen that before?
Ashley: No. (all laugh)
Matt: Go ahead and make a religion check.
Liam: Are you sure? Think about it, just for a moment longer.
Ashley: Well give me, actually, let me rethink on this. I think maybe--
Marisha: So wait, are we all reunited?
Liam: Oh, it's a natural 20!
Marisha: Oh, welcome back Pike!
Travis: The first roll.
Marisha: Are we all reunited?
Liam: You just forgot.
Ashley: I just-- you know what? Actually, now that I'm thinking about it. (all laugh)
Matt: You clutch your holy symbol instinctually as you reach up and run your fingers along the stonework, tracing the carving across the stone. As you do, your eyes close, and you feel the warmth of Sarenrae's presence fill your mind for a second, and for a split moment, you can see a well-armored, very driven, female halfling with hair pulled back into tight brown braids, a dark green cloak thrown over one shoulder, who's currently carving that symbol into the stone. You're seeing Lady Kima of Vord, the one who left this symbol, to protect her campsite as she made up camp here. You don't know how long ago this transpired, but this was definitely left by her in this tunnel.
Liam: What is it?
Ashley: It was left by a woman.
Sam: Lady Kima, the one we're trying to find?
Ashley: Yes, Lady Kima.
Liam: How did you know that?
Sam: Me and Pike are like--
Travis: Oh, Jesus.
Sam: It's so great to see you, you look fantastic by the way.
Ashley: I don't feel fantastic.
Sam: Bring it in, bring it in, give me a hug. Ooh, you smell a little. I like it though. Somehow it works on you.
Liam: We're in a very complicated situation, a lot has happened to us. We found sort of a war camp down here, and there is sort of a being, I don't know what to call it. He's got a little of this going on, and he speaks and lashes out through his mind. We fought a huge force down here, and then we ended up falling into a cavern, and then Keyleth and my sister found another one, what are they called? They're called-- illithids.
Sam: Yes, yes. And we found a rogue one, and we may team up with him-- or her?-- to go back and get revenge and maybe kick some ass in the camp.
Liam: This just happened. He seems extremely dangerous, however, the forces we faced in the other illithid seem maybe worse. So that's where we're at.
Sam: So welcome back. Great, sounds like a fun time.
Sam: Let's rejoin our friends, shall we?
Ashley: Let's go kick some ass.
Sam: So we trot back over to the dead goblin village.
Matt: All right, you make your way back to the tent that was originally scouted out. The rest of the party's there waiting as Clarota is awkwardly sitting in the far end, just looking out as all of you slowly approach and enter the tent. Not speaking, just reactionary, and keeping a watch on all of you.
Orion: I turn to Clarota, I'm like, "Ooh, that's our friend, Pike. She's a good ally. Hello, Pike!"
Ashley: Hello everybody.
All: (gasp) Pike!
Orion: Sometimes we hug as allies, Clarota.
Marisha: Where have you been? ASHLEY Well, I had quite a time. When we were up on the tower, I noticed something, and I felt... I had to leave, because I started to have a vision.
Orion: Oh, those are fun.
Ashley: I feel like I should talk to you guys about this later, just because--
Sam: It's personal?
Ashley: What is your name? I'm so sorry. I'm Pike, it's very nice to meet you.
Matt: You get a better look as you approach this entity. You see what looks like a very tall, thin, gaunt-looking humanoid with a hood over the head as you approach. You get a better look at the facial features. Smooth, kind of dull, bluish-purple skin. These sunken, creepy, yellowish green eyes, and instead of where a mouth or nose would be, you see four slightly twitching tentacles. Barely obscuring what looks like a round lamprey-like toothed maw.
Liam: Pike, this is Clarota. We've just met.
Ashley: Can I shake his hand?
Matt: Do you wanna reach your hand out?
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: There is no physical response, the hand is not extended, but you hear, in the middle of your mind, at full volume, a creepy whispered voice go, "Are you to be one of our allies as well?"
Ashley: Yes. Of course.
Matt: "Very well, she may stay."
Orion: Thank you very much, Clarota.
Ashley: I take my hand and scratch the back of my head. (all laugh)
Marisha: I take Pike and I kind of pull her out of the tent really quick, and I'm like--
Sam: Girl talk.
Marisha: Okay he's like a mind flayer, and we found him in a hole under a waterfall, but he's cool, but he wants vengeance.
Ashley: Is that-- the thing is covering, so he can't be--
Marisha: He's like outcast, yeah. But he's gonna help us fight all of his tribe who hates us.
Liam: Clarota.
Ashley: Do we know for sure he's helping us?
Orion: Yes.
Marisha: Yeah.
Liam: Can you help us understand your kind? Your history? How you've come to be here and who this individual is that is fucking with your shit? (all laugh)
Matt: Proverbial statement, I like that. At which point Clarota's eyes narrow, and you can feel just the general mood and energy of the inside of the tent grows dark. It grows mildly tense. Suddenly you feel this presence, a voice once again, fill your mind as Clarota says, "Seven years since I discovered my curse. My form was struck with the brand of the Arcane. And these foul arts proved difficult to conceal. My brethren could sense my impurity, my deviation, and cast me out. I was severed from the Elder Brain. And chased on threat of death, should I return. I wandered these tunnels in squalor, feeding on what paltry filth I could ensnare, and fleeing from the ones I could not face alone. In my wandering, I discovered a duergar stronghold, with a magma pool, and it proved to be a decent source of sustenance for some time. Paying off the occasional straggler. Suddenly a great battle took place. It appeared something had sieged the stronghold. Reading the surface thoughts of the deep dwarves I encountered in the following weeks, I found a shift of power. Whatever had taken this hold had now demanded fealty of them. And they accepted when faced with annihilation. This entity that took the duergar by force, they called K'varn. I caught no sight of it. But the fear I could sense, from within these doors were so primal, so great, that I knew to keep a distance to be safe. But four months ago one of my estranged people, was captured by these ash-skins, and brought within the obsidian walls, for what I assumed was interrogation. Long after, the bulk of the Duergar people marched in packs through the long, deep tunnels that led to my people's colony and attacked. Strangely, before much bloodshed could occur, which I only assume was the next step in this onslaught, the fighting stopped. And the colony allowed the ash skins to waltz directly into the temple, unharmed, unchallenged, where our Elder Brain resides. It wasn't until after I discovered whoever this K'varn is, they themselves infiltrated the temple, and somehow took the Elder Brain under their own control. I watched as my people had their will robbed of them. And they took the will of all the others that lived and breathed in these tunnels. Now, a terrible army is forged of both factions. And they walk under the banner of this K'varn. Since this, I've fled back to the higher tunnels, and scrounged for materials so I could shield myself from the iron grip influence of the now enslaved Elder Brain. It took me weeks. But I'm confident I'm safe from its influence. For now."
Taliesin: Is that the thing that you wear upon your head?
Matt: As it pulls the hood back, you see once again this kind of haphazard, metallic cluster of patches of metal, and iron, this dull kind of blue metallish glow, that you can only now see once he's sitting in near pitch darkness. As he reaches up and runs his finger along it, "Yes. This I feel can protect me. But I think... I think there is a way to change the tides of this circumstance, I feel that if I could somehow free my people from the influence of K'varn, release its hold on the hive mind, my people would allow me to rejoin the colony. To be one again with my family. My brethren."
Liam: I have a few questions. Is that all right?
Matt: "Yes."
Liam: You and your brethren, without this, do you think as one?
Matt: "We think as individuals, but the hive mind connects us all. The hive mind gives us knowledge, history, direction. It is the source of our family."
Liam: So, one individual of your family sees something, the entire hive sees the same, is that correct?
Matt: "Yes."
Orion: Oh dear, that's no good. (all laugh)
Liam: And you mentioned the Arcane being a stigma upon you?
Matt: At which point it turns its gaze away, and slinks down into its form slightly.
Liam: What do your brethren put their faith in, if not the Arcane?
Matt: "They put their faith in the arts of the mind. Both understanding, manipulating, controlling, and devouring."
Orion: Clarota, we've already allied ourselves with you, as we've already agreed.
Matt: "You'll help me free my people? To be family again, to belong."
Orion: As we said, yes. But the thing you wear on your head, it would make us all the more equipped to take on this task. It's against such powerful mind creatures, such as yourself, I know my way around a couple Arcane things, but nothing of the mind control sorts. If someone like me were to be influenced, it would be very bad for our group. Even yourself, perhaps. It would do well to at least maybe show us how you built it, and-- You get what I'm getting at, right?
Travis: I would like a steel beanie as well.
Ashley: Basically, where do we get one of those?
Matt: "It would take weeks to build another."
Travis: Weeks?
Taliesin: I would like to take a look into it if possible, and see if it makes sense. I am a builder.
Marisha: Maybe we can figure out something a little bit more jerryrigged.
Taliesin: If we were all hidden, we would have a distinct advantage.
Travis: I have a very large bronze pot in the bag of holding. Could I wear that on me noggin?
Taliesin: If you like.
Matt: It gives you a look in response and says, "This protects me from the influence of the hive mind, my preexisting connection."
Taliesin: Could we be hidden from them? Would there be a way to cloak ourselves from their understanding?
Matt: "Stay hidden from the others. Their sight is the mind's sight. The Elder Brain is a collection of the once living mind flayers of my people."
Liam: I have one more question, and we have allied ourselves to you, that's true. But I'm curious to know, hopefully our goals intertwine, and we want the same thing. But once that is achieved, and it will be, what happens then for the Illithid? Do you return to your home below? Do your people harbor any ambition to move upward into Kraghammer?
Matt: It looks to the side and says, "Our ambition is to pursue the continuation of our knowledge-seeking. We have no interest in the surface. We only wish to spread our dominion here below. Expand our great city of Yug'Voril."
Liam: I'm sorry, what was that name?
Matt: "Yug'Voril."
Orion: Sounds like a lovely town, Yug'Voril.
Matt: "It's beautiful."
Taliesin: I feel that we could come to an arrangement.
Liam: I do as well.
Taliesin: We would require of you, at the very least, safe passage once we have helped you reunite with your people, for ourselves, and for a friend of ours who's lost in the darkness, who we are here to retrieve.
Matt: "For this deed, of freeing my people from this insidious presence that is K'varn..."
Taliesin: Freeing all of our people.
Matt: "I believe this could be arranged."
Liam: Scanlan, does he speak true?
Sam: Uh. Let's find out. (all laugh)
Sam: I'm gonna just see if I can detect any lies.
Matt: Go ahead and make an insight check.
Sam: What am I adding to this?
Liam: Insight.
Sam: Oh. 13. I'm not an insight person.
Ashley: Oh, can I--
Travis: (scoffs)
Liam: 20 over here!
Taliesin: What are you doing?
Travis: She's rolled twice.
Ashley: Assisting, assisting. (all laugh)
Taliesin: All of your 20's, running out.
Matt: It's too late for the assist, unfortunately, 'cause it's already rolled.
Liam: But can she suss him out?
Matt: Best you can tell, those who are looking into it, he seems to be speaking from a point of desperation, and intent, as he has no other option. He is genuinely-- You can see it in the way he talks, and the way he speaks about his family. He's a little crazy. The isolation has put him to a point where he wants to return to his people, and will do whatever it takes to get back with them, however, he also seems to be, in a weird way that you can read, appreciative that you're willing to help, and seems to be, on his part, genuine. As a note, music's not playing? I don't know if there's a reason for that.
Travis: Did he say his eyes, the flayer's eyes, are what put people in trances, or their minds?
Sam: Yeah, the eyes, the eyes.
Travis: So if we wear helmets, it's not gonna help us.
Sam: No, the helmet is what separates him from his hive mind. It wouldn't help us at all.
Travis: I'll still wear the big bronze pot on my head.
Matt: You put the pot on your head. It's clunky.
Travis: On my whole head.
Matt: You cannot see with the pot on your head.
Travis: No, but I'm protected from the flayer.
Sam: Can you bore two like, ghost holes in?
Travis: I don't need it, I have incredible warrior skills.
Taliesin: Do their powers work with reflection?
Matt: "No, they can peer into your very mind."
Taliesin: But if we approach them using a reflective surface to view them, can they peer into our minds through a reflected surface?
Matt: "If they know you're there, you're in sight, they can read into you."
Travis: Shit.
Marisha: They can read our minds.
Matt: "If you are obscured, unknown to them, then you are hidden. They cannot sense you, but if they know you are there, they can peer, they can pry."
Liam: Is there any way to be hidden for us?
Matt: "Hidden from sight. Be hidden from knowledge. Be hidden from them."
Marisha: Clarence? Sorry, Clarota.
Sam: How about Clay?
Matt: "Clarota!"
Travis: Jesus.
Marisha: Sorry, Clarota. I just have one quick question. Why would you want to rejoin your colony after they've banished you? Why not leave?
Matt: "I have nowhere to go. They are my essence, my connection. I long to return. It is the way of my people, I understand this curse I hold. I spite myself, I look upon this disease, and spit. But perhaps, with this deed, they can overlook it."
Marisha: You're not diseased, you're special.
Travis: Oh, God.
Sam: Question, Clarota.
Matt: "You know nothing of my culture. You presume too much."
Liam: I think we do understand your desires though, and we can align ours with yours. So let us speak of specifics, Clarota.
Sam: Strategy.
Liam: Strategy.
Sam: Number one, that assortment of dwarves and some of your friends and ogres over there on the other side of the chasm. Is that something that we need to face headlong, or can we maybe surpass them, trying to find K'varn, or this temple that you speak of?
Matt: "We may if you wish. Their stronghold is far below. The magma leads the way. However, if I know what I've seen, the general resides in that camp. I know no way within the stronghold, without the brunt of their army. Perhaps the general can be pried for information. If you bring him to me."
Sam: "Bring him," so you won't be accompanying us on any adventure, or...?
Matt: "I will be coming."
Orion: We have to fetch him.
Sam: And the general is in that...
Orion: Where you were, right?
Sam: Yes, yes. So we have to go over.
Ashley: Did you say something about a temple, or did I completely misunderstand?
Matt: "There is a temple in our city. Where my people reside, that is where the Elder Brain sits."
Sam: We'll get there eventually, but first step is this smaller force across the chasm.
Travis: Yeah, we're gonna put the beat down. (all laugh)
Orion: Well said, Grog.
Marisha: You said there was a big army front, guarding this general? Of duergar?
Sam: Well, the general's right across the chasm.
Marisha: Oh, he's just right across the way?
Matt: "Their forces are gathering there. The bulk of their army currently is divided between that and the stronghold below."
Liam: Percy shot this one, I think.
Taliesin: I did.
Liam: I think it's important to point out that your kin, this general, is aware of at least three of us, of my dragonborn friend, the singer over here, and myself.
Sam: I don't think he knows about me.
Travis: No, you were invisible.
Liam: Just us, then.
Orion: I don't even know if he saw me. He saw my funny cards.
Liam: True, it could be just me then.
Orion: Oh, I cast Prestidigitation on Pike and I clean her up real quick.
Liam: You look lovely. How do you think your kin will react to that? What will their response be if they know that outsiders have come? If they've seen just me at this moment, plus a few illusions.
Matt: "They will be prepared. So you must find another way in. You must think how to not be seen."
Travis: Think. (all laugh)
Orion: Don't worry, Grog.
Matt: You've never ever, in your life, ever heard someone else chuckle inside your brain, but you hear within the center of yours: (chuckles) "Think, yes."
Travis: Oh ho, it echoes in the pot. (all laugh) But I start laughing to myself. (silly laughter)
Liam: Can I assume that you would have already given us any advice by now if you knew a way? Are we stuck with our own resources?
Matt: "I've only watched from a distance. Getting too close was too dangerous. I only read surface thoughts. If I were seen, I would be nothing, I would be destroyed."
Liam: So no back doors, no secret entrances that you know of, into the camp, anywhere near this general?
Matt: "None."
Liam: Fuck.
Travis: What's in the bottom of the crevasse?
Sam: It's water and magma.
Travis: Can we pick up the little loch ness monster and throw it at him or something?
Sam: Oh yes, down below, in the waters, our allies - Vex, and uh, somebody. (all laugh) Found some creatures under the water, snatching bodies as they fell. Keyleth. Yes, I forgot who went.
Orion: Her majesty, Keyleth.
Sam: Pike's beauty distracted me, you shouldn't have cleaned her up so nice.
Orion: I'm sorry.
Sam: Anyway, there were some creatures down below in the waters, are those anything that we could use, or should we just avoid them?
Matt: You see it actually hisses for a second, as soon as you mention this he goes, "No, avoid. That creature is older than all of us. It resides there, an ancient mind. One that should be Kept at bay. An aboleth."
Sam: Do you need a lozenge? (all laugh)
Matt: Its eyes narrow once again, not quite understanding the words you use, seemingly amused.
Sam: It's a gnome thing.
Matt: As a brief aside, too, I checked the connection on my iPad, I'm playing music fine, and the connection's in the iPad, I don't quite know where it's losing its connection. But I think we need some music.
Sam: All right, so let's review our options, shall we?
Travis: We're gonna charge in there.
Sam: We can't charge, there's a chasm.
Liam: How did that go with the little brain thing? Not too well.
Taliesin: The chasm is a problem.
Sam: Master switch.
Marisha: An entire colony of mind flayers.
Sam: We could fly in, right?
Liam: The bridge is gone, we have to--
Sam: We can fly in death from above.
Travis: I don't know if I can.
Sam: Well, we can figure out a way. Enough of us can turn into flying things to get you there.
Taliesin: We also have a flying carpet. We can repair the bridge if we had to, at least put a rope across.
Ashley: I think--
Sam: Or we could disguise ourselves somehow.
Ashley: I think I know where we need to go.
Sam: What?
Travis: Really?
Marisha: Really?
Liam: Get out of this city.
Marisha: Please, do tell.
Sam: So, hold on-- (static) (music)
Matt: There we go.
Sam: There's music.
Ashley: Oh wait, I think I read this wrong. (all laugh)
Sam: Pike, don't toy with our emotions.
Travis: You just got back.
Ashley: So you guys haven't gone to the war camp.
Sam: We have.
Ashley: You have.
Sam: We been there and we quickly retreated.
Liam: Scanlan took a poke about. He boofed himself out of sight and had a look around, and then we returned to the edge of it, and I kind of flipped the bird at them, and taunted them a little, but most of us haven't been in.
Ashley: Have you been to the lake?
Travis: None of us went in the water.
Sam: Lake? No, there's no-- what, there's a lake?
Ashley: Isn't that where that thing is?
Travis: The bottom of the crevasse, right?
Liam: Under the bridge, there was--
Sam: No, that's rushing water, that's not--
Matt: The area after the big drop that was at the bottom, there was a lake of water. And there was a waterfall coming out of the natural--
Liam: And the ogres were getting sucked under by something.
Travis: So we didn't go down there.
Marisha: Is there something under the lake?
Ashley: Well I just-- I don't know if I should be talking about this in front of him.
Travis: We could go away from him for a second.
Liam: He will probably hear the thoughts inside your mind.
Orion: Clarota is totally fine to talk in front of. He's amazing.
Ashley: Earmuffs. (all laugh)
Ashley: Well, shall I share a vision I had?
Liam: I think so, Pike. I think at this point, we should just move forward.
Ashley: In this vision that I had, I was pulled down toward the mines. Into the tunnels, below where the dwarves were working.
Marisha: Through the lake?
Ashley: Well, past the goblinoid creatures, and past a great underground lake. Past a jagged onyx colored fortress, framed in molten rock.
Travis: We haven't been there yet.
Ashley: Past a field of broken glass and bone. Have you seen any of this?
Taliesin: No.
Marisha: No.
Travis: I don't think an onyx fortress.
Orion: Those last things sound terrible.
Liam: Yes, that all sounds shitty. (all laugh)
Liam: The last thing we've seen is the lake, and we didn't go too close to it, because a couple of ogres fell in from above, and they disappeared like something grabbed them.
Travis: We didn't have him fly down there and get a close look.
Liam: No, we haven't had a look around.
Ashley: I wonder if there's like--
Marisha: I can cast Water Breathing on all of us.
Travis: Why don't we send one, like Mars Rover over here, and have him go check it out?
Marisha: I can always turn into, like, a whale.
Liam: Perhaps, but the water breathing sounds good to me. I feel like a head-on--
Travis: Isn't there something in the water?
Liam: -- run into the chasm is a bad idea.
Orion: I pull out my empty bottle, and I go, and I have this!
Liam: Yes, he's got a bottle, plus, we've killed a fucking dragon. I know it's not an easy task to accomplish, but we're pretty badass, I think. We might have a good chance.
Marisha: So wait, is going through the lake gonna get us through to the general?
Liam: Well, we don't know.
Travis: We haven't been down to the water's surface.
Sam: What's the best-case scenario? What, we come up behind them? It's still gonna be a fight.
Travis: But maybe there's a different vantage point.
Sam: We can fly over them, that seems like a pretty good attack point.
Taliesin: Some of us can fly over them.
Marisha: Well we can figure out to where where all of us can fly over them. I'm more concerned about us cloaking ourselves. Even if we're flying they're still going to see us.
Sam: There's an ancient death thing down there.
Travis: He might die, didn't say it was foolproof.
Sam: I don't know, man, he's volunteering you.
Orion: Wait, what's going on?
Liam: I mean, our options are we can vote on it, although we all know Keyleth is just gonna go fucking do whatever she wants. Our options are--
Marisha: That was one time.
Liam: Just the one time.
Marisha: Just one time.
Travis: Never to be forgotten.
Liam: Our options are a headlong advance into the middle of their camp. That's a big fucking force.
Sam: Or some sort of disguise, distraction.
Travis: Tiberius.
Matt: Is the stream down by the way?
Zac: It goes down every two hours and 17 minutes, it's been doing that for-- It comes right back up.
Matt: All right, so let us know when it's back up.
Sam: Two hours and 17 minutes, that sounds like Lost or something.
Travis: Tiberius. Do it.
Marisha: Amityville Twitch stream.
Travis: Go fly all the way down to the water's surface. Like Michael J. Fox in Back to the Future 2, and check out if there's any other tunnels that we haven't seen, or ways to go.
Orion: Isn't this the same water that you bended?
Marisha: I think so.
Travis: We didn't go down to the water's surface though, did we?
Marisha: Well, we went over the top of it, and kind of looked down.
Travis: Oh, we did? We went all the way down?
Marisha: When I was bending the water back, we were kind of in that area, right? That was that area, but the lake--
Sam: Do it smart. Let's go bomb them.
Ashley: What if, I mean--
Travis: Can you freeze it?
Ashley: Do you guys wanna like, put me down on a rope, and I can just run around, see if there's any openings? I mean I have a lot of armor.
Liam: Go fishing with you?
Marisha: Go fishing, yeah.
Ashley: Well no, just like halfway, and then I can run around and look for tunnels. Well some of us can fly, so we're okay.
Marisha: I can attempt to try and drain the lake a little bit.
Liam: And Keyleth said that she can cast Water Breathing, can help us breathe underneath the surface.
Travis: We have two underwater breathing potions.
Marisha: Control Water's a level five spell.
Matt: I realize that. But that's a lot of water.
Travis: But remember, we're slow as balls in water.
Liam: You were having trouble, if I recall, just getting the waterfall out of the way to create, I mean it was amazing, but--
Marisha: I managed to get it stopped--
Liam: I know, you fucking saved the day, but we're talking about--
Marisha: A lake.
Liam: Yeah, Lake Superior.
Sam: This is not just a lake, there is a death monster in there. If we go under the water, we're dead.
Travis: Can we stand on it? Anything, if we wanna fight it? Or are we gonna be fighting it in the water?
Taliesin: Well, we can all have Water Breathing.
Travis: Yeah, but we'll be slow.
Sam: And we'll be underwater, where there's a death monster.
Travis: I'm not worried about that part of the question.
Liam: There's 50 to 100 fucking creeps up top.
Sam: Well, then let's come up with a good plan.
Ashley: Maybe there's hidden stairs or something, like in Indiana Jones?
Travis: Can you electrify the water and fry the guy?
Liam: Hold up, hold up.
Orion: There's only 26 people up there. On our last count.
Taliesin: Before the ones we killed, or after?
Orion: After.
Liam: Those are the ones we saw, though. How do we know how far back the camp goes? How many are in the gate behind it?
Travis: Don't a couple of you have Lightning? Can't you deep-fry the water?
Marisha: I mean, I can make a giant whirlpool.
Liam: Wait a second, wait a second. Clarota, you've been listening to our thoughts for the last ten minutes.
Sam: And what clear thoughts they have been.
Liam: What do you think? What do you think?
Matt: "What resides in that lake is something you wish not to tamper with. An ancient mind."
Travis: Blah blah blah. Hodie-fucking-ho.
Matt: "It clouds the water with its own filth. You find yourself unable to breathe air."
Marisha: Didn't that happen already?
Matt: "Its mind, it takes--"
Liam: Have you seen it?
Matt: "Yes."
Liam: It's big?
Matt: "It's rather large."
Ashley: Is it like a many-armed ...situation? (all laugh)
Matt: "One could say, yes."
Ashley: Okay. Swell.
Liam: What's the sitch?
Marisha: So we can face Cthulhu, or little Cthulhu minons, seems to be our choice.
Orion: Clarota.
Travis: Why don't I have Lightning, I swear. Can't you fry the water first? See if it hurts it?
Sam: We can fly overhead and just Lightning the shit out of it.
Travis: Do that, please. 'Cause maybe there's a way-- there's a tunnel, and we come up behind them or whatever it was.
Liam: That illithid took out my brain from like 100 feet.
Sam: You know what-- wait, wait, if I may. When I was there, I saw the main general control all of them instantly, when he was about to make a sacrifice, or feed, or whatever he was doing. No offense. He instantly had all of their command. If we could somehow get to him, and cut off that connection, distract him, influence him somehow to command them to all jump in the lake, for instance. That would get rid of a lot of them all at once.
Liam: Can you make me invisible?
Sam: I can get you there. I can make you unseeable, but not invisible.
Liam: What?
Travis: What's the difference?
Sam: I can make you a fly.
Taliesin: May I examine-- without removing-- may I examine your device?
Travis: Oh, shit.
Matt: Make a persuasion roll.
Travis: Oh man, Percy, Percy.
Sam: What's he doing?
Orion: He's asking to--
Taliesin: 16.
Liam: What's he doing?
Sam: Touching the hat.
Matt: He glares at you and says, "Our agreement does not include this interaction."
Taliesin: It may be the key to returning you to your people.
Travis: Tiberius.
Orion: Yes?
Travis: Would you go fry the fucking lake?
Taliesin: I won't touch. I will just look.
Orion: I'm reading my book.
Travis: No, I want you to--
Matt: It kind of bows its head, but does not move closer. It just slightly shows you an element of it.
Taliesin: Can I understand how it functions?
Matt: Best you can tell it looks like a skullcap that's been kind of decently made for what it is, but you can see some of the hammer marks on it, or whatever it was put together. It appears to be a very simple piece of metallic material.
Taliesin: So it's magic.
Matt: It looks like it is some sort of enchantment, probably what's causing the effect. It's not any mechanical device that causes it.
Travis: (metal clanging)
Taliesin: So there'd be no way to build something to create a feedback loop?
Marisha: Ooh. I see what you're getting at.
Taliesin: I wanna try and see if there's any way that I can take a look at this and figure out a way to build some sort of feedback system.
Marisha: We need to build a coconut radio.
Sam: We don't even have a laboratory.
Taliesin: He wants a coconut radio.
Orion: I love coconuts.
Matt: You have never interacted with anything psionic-based before. The time to research that, and the materials needed to do it would take months.
Taliesin: Plan two--
Liam: This is a fairly shitty situation.
Travis: While all this is going on!
Taliesin: Because if they can't see, what if we blind them?
Liam: How?
Marisha: With some sort of interference?
Taliesin: With a really bright light.
Orion: Oh, I love doing light things.
Taliesin: What if they are so blind they can't actually see us coming?
Marisha: I believe Pike and I both have access to spells like that.
Sam: I assume that would make us pretty blind as well.
Marisha: Not necessarily.
Ashley: Not if we wear our--
Sam: -- sunglasses? (all laugh)
Taliesin: Can I attempt to build sunglasses?
Sam: Before we build sunglasses--
Matt: You can probably make a couple with the materials you have on hand. You are limited when it comes to resources, as you are currently halfway underground.
Taliesin: Even better.
Travis: Vax could show his ass, that's a pretty white light.
Taliesin: That's as white as it gets.
Liam: It's pale as shit. When I go to the beach, I don't tan, I stroke.
Sam: But I thought we established that they don't need visual contact to influence us, they just need to be able to be aware--
Taliesin: Once they have visual contact they can influence us, but they need to make that visual contact in the first place.
Matt: "The dark, deep dwarves, they hate light. This I know."
Marisha: I think it'll stun them long enough for us to get across.
Taliesin: If we could perhaps put some Light spells on the back and the front of our shields, so that we are guarded from it.
Orion: If you can make a pair for our friend here, that would help him out, I assume.
Marisha: Wait, that's not a bad idea. Pike, can we temporarily enchant the magic carpet as a spotlight as we fly over? As a light death ray?
Liam: We've seen you surrounded in radiant light before, you think you can do that to the carpet?
Ashley: I mean, I have--
Marisha: We should have Daylight. Where's my book? Where's my Player's Handbook?
Liam: And Clarota, while they're figuring that out, if we remain to be hidden or blind our opponents as we approach your kin, will not know our thoughts 'til they see us?
Matt: "Yes. They need to look into you, by knowing you're there."
Liam: Can I fight one of your kin with a blindfold on?
Matt: "Perhaps."
Travis: I thought if they could see you--
Orion: Clarota. The mind hive that you possess, how close can one be before it actually affects? Say 100 feet, caught my friend in mid air, alas, in their run-in. Is its range about--?
Matt: "That's about the distance, yes."
Sam: You may not know the answer to this. I don't doubt your knowledge and wisdom, but I happen to have a ring with mind shielding, will that aid me in any way?
Matt: "It may. If it gives you resistance to psionic influence, it would be of aid, yes."
Marisha: Daylight.
Travis: Do we have a plan?
Liam: It wouldn't be hard to get hold of some pitch down here, some tar.
Sam: To burn?
Liam: No. If you can be invisible, and you have a ring of mind shielding, and you can carry a bucket of pitch to that motherfucker, you can splash it on its face, cover its eyes, and it's helpless.
Taliesin: My God.
Sam: Or I can hang that big brass pot on its head.
Travis: But I'm wearing that.
Liam: Yes, but it could take it off, possibly. If you smear sticky shit on its eyes--
Sam: So wait, I just have to blind it?
Liam: Then it can't control--
Sam: Well, I happen to have a Blindness spell!
Matt: "It may still try, but to be blind, it would be very difficult for it to pry into your mind."
Sam: Could it still control the others, though?
Matt: "Probably. That is a permanent enslavement."
Sam: So you want me to go in there, solo, invisible, and try to blind this thing.
Liam: No, not solo.
Sam: I'm in!
Liam: I like your idea of turning me into a fly. You and I go in--
Taliesin: And we've got Light spells.
Marisha: Pike and I can cast Daylight on our magic carpet.
Ashley: I can cast it onto my shield, and then on the carpet, and we would have a double--
Marisha: I have to take a nap, though. What's that?
Liam: But that could get us in close. Scanlan and I could get in closer, and blind it, and I could stab it in the head.
Marisha: I mean, technically I can also turn into something flying, I could back you guys up, if someone else wants to take the carpet.
Sam: We can all get there. We can all get there.
Marisha: I can cast Daylight on your helmet. On your pot helmet.
Travis: Really?
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: That I'm game with
Marisha: All right.
Travis: I'll be like a lighthouse, walking around. Crushing life. (all laugh)
Matt: You'd be the cover of John Carpenter's "The Thing."
Liam: Did everyone hear Percy, that's a good idea.
Taliesin: Two fronts.
Liam: Yes, two fronts.
Sam: What is it?
Liam: You and I separate from the group, they go in shining like a beacon, you and I (buzzes) in, and while the illithid is focused on them, we go in, you blind him, and I stab him in his maw. It's pretty good.
Sam: That's a suicide mission.
Travis: I like it, let's do it.
Liam: What else are we going to do?
Taliesin: I'm behind this plan.
Sam: Surgical, special ops, seal team six.
Marisha: What does Vax have to say about this?
Liam: Vex, you mean? My sister Vex?
Marisha: Yes, that one.
Liam: That's a good question.
Sam: Oh, Vex, you look so tired.
Matt: Vex, your sister seems genuinely perturbed by the circumstance, but looks to you and says, "Look, I found him, you deal with the situation. Just tell me what to do."
Sam: She's so like that. (all laugh) ASHLEY Let's do it.
Liam: I gave up trying to understand her years ago.
Marisha: Do you know what time it is? I'm feeling a bit nappy.
Orion: Your hair looks fine.
Liam: Well, I--
Sam: Wait-- (shushes)
Matt: "If you need rest, then rest. Time of day has no bearing down here."
Marisha: I have to rest so I can-- I'm gonna read up on this Daylight spell, so that you and me can both cast it. ASHLEY Yeah, we'll just take a nap and just get, you know, rest our muscles, and get ready for the fight.
Travis: I'm gonna read up on this Chopping Head spell. Yep, I'm read up.
Sam: I'm gonna sing a little song to inspire a couple of my allies here, if I can.
Matt: Okay, I would recommend doing it after rest. The dice would go away while they rest.
Sam: Okay, forget it.
Marisha: I go ahead and I light an incense in our teepee, and I make some flowers grow. That's better. That's nice.
Taliesin: I'm gonna do a little bit of work on that first trick arrow. On the trap arrow. Since I've got a little time.
Matt: Go ahead and make a roll.
Taliesin: That's a-- What am I rolling?
Matt: Your engineering-- your tinker's kit.
Taliesin: Oh, it's just an intelligence roll, right?
Matt: Plus your tinker's kit proficiency. It's down underneath your skills. Proficiency, at the very bottom left.
Taliesin: Yeah, I don't have a number for that.
Matt: You can add your proficiency modifier to your intelligence check. Add your intelligence modifier plus four.
Taliesin: Ah, thank you. 17.
Matt: All right, and so what are you trying to accomplish with this arrow again?
Taliesin: I was just trying to make an entanglement arrow. It's a trapper's arrow.
Matt: Okay. You manage to work out what seems like a tanglefoot bag-type detonation, where if an arrow were fired, it would be a grapple check against the individual, probably give them penalties until they're able to break free of the grapple. So yeah, success on that one.
Travis: Nice job, Doogie.
Taliesin: I'm gonna be Hawkeyeing Laura out at some point, I got a couple of them.
Orion: Before I retire, Clarota, you said you wanted to speak with me later. Anything in particular, or you wish to save it for after the battle?
Matt: "Perhaps after. I just am curious about the source of your Arcane power."
Orion: Ooh, I'd be happy to discuss it. I could learn a great deal from you as well.
Matt: "Later."
Orion: Later, of course. I go to my books.
Matt: So Clarota closes his eyes, and kind of goes into a meditative stance. The rest of you, those who have spells to choose, go ahead and choose your spells accordingly for the next day.
Travis: Rub it in. I'm sharpening my ax.
Matt: Good. Good.
Travis: It is good.
Sam: Just doing my vocal warmups. ♫ Me me me me me me me me me ♫
Marisha: I'm meditating.
Sam: ♫ Molto bene, molto bene, molto bene, molto bene ♫
Travis: The human torch was denied a bank loan. (all laugh)
Matt: So as you all have your evening's rest... Not very comfortable. Number one, you're in the middle of a tent of a goblinoid city. Second, just the general proximity of sleeping near an illithid, you just have a general sense of unsettling dreams, imagery that is disturbing. Pike, you have many flashbacks to the vision you had, and actually wake partway through the night in a cold sweat. As you wake up, you all kind of slowly come to, it's about four hours into the evening's rest. You feel a slight tremor, a familiar tremor that you felt once before in this cavern. (rumbling) You feel the ground begin to vibrate and shake.
Taliesin: I get up and look around.
Sam: Is Clay awake? (all laugh)
Matt: Eyes are open, just sitting there.
Sam: Clarota, do you know what that rumbling is?
Matt: "There are many creatures that live in this rock. You'd best be still."
Sam: Ooh, still.
Matt: "Still."
Orion: Don't move.
Travis: So, vocal warm ups.
Matt: Everyone make a stealth check.
Marisha: Oh!
Travis: Fucking nipples.
Marisha: Pooper.
Travis: We get advantage on that, right?
Matt: Nope!
Orion: 16.
Sam: 14.
Marisha: 19.
Taliesin: 18.
Liam: 20.
Ashley: One.
Travis: One. (all laugh)
Matt: Two natural ones?
Travis: Yup!
Sam: After her two natural 20's.
Liam: Nothing to add.
Ashley: Nothing to add. Well I'm new to armor, you know.
Matt: You both rolled natural ones. Those both count as two failures.
Ashley: Fuck.
Matt: Thankfully, the rest of your group all rolled pretty high. So it was four versus five.
Orion: Yes!
Matt: You guys just barely succeed. As you all hold still, barely breathe, the rumbling intensifies, and goes on for a good minute, minute and a half, before it eventually subsides.
Travis: Aw. Thought we were gonna get a warm up.
Matt: Fades into the distance. Rumbling is complete. It appears to be no issue. Clarota says, "Many of these creatures, they pick up on movement, in that sound, be wary."
Liam: What creatures are you speaking of now? Is this something--
Sam: The rumbling creatures.
Liam: But what are they?
Orion: Probably buttholes.
Matt: "I've only got glimpses."
Liam: This is something worse than umberhulks, I assume.
Matt: "Larger, yes."
Sam: All right, we've all rested up.
Liam: Buttholes in the underdark!
Sam: I had a crazy dream. It said if Geek & Sundry got to 1,400 followers, there would be some sort of a giveaway.
Orion: Oh, I had the same dream, Scanlan!
Sam: Wow!
Matt: Yeah guys, just so you're aware, every 50 subscribers we get, we are giving away an awesome Geek & Sundry game package.
Zac: Ethanmyhead just won one.
Matt: Oh, there you go, congratulations! We already got a winner. We'll be putting those out for every 50 subscribers we get tonight. We'll be choosing one to win that awesome award, our wonderful package, so keep that in mind.
Sam: So the plan is again, you and I, stealth. The rest, attack with light? What's first, what's second, what happens here?
Liam: Well, I need to take a moment to find some-- I'm gonna look around and see if I can find any pitch, anywhere in the goblin camp.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and make a survival check. Actually, this would be investigation.
Liam: Investigation. I got the exact same number, 12.
Matt: Takes about an hour. You manage to find, essentially, a few piles of rather disgusting, sticky, goblinoid refuse, that you imagine will probably stick and burn pretty well. In a pitch-type way, yeah.
Liam: Goblin shit?
Matt: You find just a whole bunch of goblin shit.
Liam: Let's cook it up a little.
Taliesin: How do you feel about lacing it with gun powder?
Sam: I'll make some fire for you.
Liam: Feel pretty good about that.
Marisha: Goblin molotov cocktails? I like that.
Taliesin: Goblin poop cocktail.
Liam: So here's how I think this goes. I think the team infuses the carpet, and any shields, or head pots they have with radiant light. They go in and make a big stink on the side of the camp. You and I go in, you're invisible. I'm a--
Sam: Fly, flea, mosquito, dragonfly, whatever you'd like.
Liam: Yes, let's say fly. We go in, find the illithid, and then we pop in, you yell, "Hey, Spanky," throw goblin shit in its face.
Sam: Or I try to blind it with magic.
Liam: Yes.
Taliesin: Both.
Orion: Both! Why not both?
Liam: We want to increase our odds. As soon as he's blind, I go in for the kill. And then it's on us to deal with what happens after that.
Travis: It's playtime.
Liam: It's playtime.
Sam: Might I suggest one other wrinkle.
Liam: Yes, please do.
Sam: Remember there are some dwarves being held captive. We can make our way to them and release them.
Travis: We don't need all of them, though. Just to cause further distraction, or to get some allies on the inside.
Liam: It's possible they could be weary, frightened.
Taliesin: Mind controlled.
Liam: Seems unreliable-- yes, mind controlled.
Travis: They're probably ready to fight, like me. (all laugh)
Sam: Grog, we understand, you want to bash some things.
Liam: Your time to kill is coming.
Sam: All right, is there anyone else in the party who could help us with stealth, or anything?
Ashley: Definitely not me.
Sam: Okay.
Travis: Clang clang. ASHLEY Clang clang clang clang.
Matt: As a note, just remember. Because you're the one who walked through. There is essentially a shanty town, a tent city of war tents. With a few rock formations. You also notice that, or you remember last time, that there was the main square that had the raised platform. And then there was the small stone barracks, where it seemed both the mind flayer and the duergar general both went back in.
Sam: So we gotta go into the barracks.
Matt: Well that's where you saw at least they were last time you were there.
Liam: That's our starting point, I imagine.
Orion: Well, there's two targets.
Sam: So we gotta get in, and then get in.
Liam: The main thing is to get the illithid, because if he's out, nobody's-- Then they're all separate. He's playing chess with all his minions until we take him out.
Travis: I hate chess.
Orion: So we all strike right on him. You two are going to take that little journey. The rest of us, what shall we do? I have many options and they're all fun. So Percy. Your sniper rifle. I should think that you want to post up and start taking out position.
Taliesin: I'll do that at first, but then eventually I'm going to just have to jump into the fray.
Orion: Yes, of course, onslaught to the rest of the camp, that we'll go about it too, right? Make a bunch of noise, a bunch of light.
Sam: How are you going to get Grog over there?
Marisha: I'm gonna put a giant sunlight beacon on his head, and I'm gonna release him to the wilds.
Liam: Yes, but there's no bridge, we talked about--
Marisha: Oh, how are we gonna get him over it?
Liam: We have an infinite amount of rope.
Sam: How do we get it over there?
Liam: Tiberius talks about making him light as a feather.
Travis: Or you can fly me.
Sam: Yes, you can fly him, right?
Orion: Perhaps you can fly.
Travis: Why don't we turn my pot into a lighthouse, and then you fly me over, and I'll do like, abominable snow man walk.
Marisha: I like that.
Liam: Clarota, is there anything you can do to help us on this endeavor?
Matt: "I can try to cloud his mind with mine, but you have to swear to protect me from harm."
Liam: You have our word.
Sam: -- that we will try. (all laugh)
Matt: "Then I will come. You must work swiftly. If we can leap most of the city, get to that barrack, storm it, and take out the mind flayer that resides."
Sam: Let's set down right in the middle of the thing.
Marisha: Well I was gonna say, can we set down where we're kind of backing you guys up, holding the fort down while you guys go?
Liam: There's no bridge.
Sam: We all have to get there.
Marisha: I'm not worried about that.
Liam: Get over together, get to the edge.
Sam: Yes, but where are we going to make land? In the middle of the shit, next to the barracks?
Marisha: I say we might as well go closest to the barracks as we can get.
Sam: Okay, then you and I can get in the barracks.
Liam: That's a good idea. If we go as high as we can, and just hug the ceiling of this motherfucker, and then go down in the middle. And as we're going down, you turn me into a fly and go invisible, and that's when all hell breaks lose.
Travis: I like that part. Let's do it.
Liam: No time like the present.
Travis: Hands up if you're in.
Marisha: I'm gonna start buffing people like crazy.
Orion: I cast Stoneskin.
Taliesin: Gonna be buffing us like a vampire slayer.
Marisha: Oh! Joss Whedon up in this bitch!
Sam: Question to the dungeon master.
Matt: Yes.
Sam: I think my Polymorph spell is a concentration spell.
Matt: It is, yes.
Sam: I'm going solo. (sighs)
Travis: Do it.
Sam: I can get you in. I can make you a fly, but I can't be invisible at the same time.
Liam: I will sneak through. If shit goes south, I will peel off and join the others.
Marisha: Well, I can cast Pass Without A Trace on myself, and as long as we hug close to me, there's an area around me that's like a dark shadow. We get like, all stealthy.
Sam: We're going in.
Liam: We're just gonna have to improvise that. We'll do it live, we'll do it live.
Marisha: Wait, wait, wait! Don't go in yet. Let me buff people.
Matt: You said you were casting Stoneskin? Stoneskin is concentration. The moment you cast another concentration spell, it goes away.
Orion: Oh, right. So I don't cast it, then. (all laugh) God damned concentration spells.
Travis: I would like to cast, um. (all laugh)
Travis: Blood Lust on myself. Blood Lust.
Marisha: I go ahead and I cast Enhance Ability on Vex.
All: Vax.
Liam: Sorry, everybody does it. Our mother did it, I do it sometimes.
Matt: To increase his dexterity?
Marisha: To increase your dexterity.
Matt: So essentially you have advantage on dexterity-based checks, yeah.
Marisha: Which is your stealth, right?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: And then I'm gonna go ahead and let me keep track of all this. And I'm gonna go ahead and cast Daylight on Grog's helmet. Are we ready for this, are we going?
Sam: Yeah, let's go.
Travis: Let's do it.
Marisha: And I'm gonna go ahead and cast Daylight on--
Sam: Wait.
Travis: What?
Sam: Wait. We're trying to sneak over them before we land. Don't cast Daylight on anything yet. We don't wanna be bright and shiny in the sky.
Matt: A giant flare coasting over the city.
Travis: We'll be like UFO's.
Liam: (hissing)
Marisha: I'm gonna go ahead and cast Pass Without A Trace on myself.
Matt: All right, so that's preparation there.
Sam: I'm gonna sing a little ditty to inspire Vax. ♫ I didn't see the Vax ♫ 'Cause he's so goddamned stealthy ♫ Da da da da da da da da
Travis: Was that "I Saw The Sun"?
Sam: Yes it was. (all laugh)
Matt: That wondrous rendition allows you a d8 inspiration dice, hold on to that.
Orion: Is everybody finished?
Liam: Vox Machina, let's do this shit.
Marisha: I turn into an eagle, and I'll take the gnomes.
Matt: All right. Scanlan. Pike is heavy with the plate mail, but it's still enough to carry with your giant eagle form.
Liam: Tiberius, Percy, and I are on the carpet, and Tiberius, are you good to help Grog fly across?
Orion: Fly.
Matt: At which point you feel this strange lifting sensation, for a second your stomach kind of has butterflies, and you realize that you can just think forward, and you drift forward. Think back, you drift back. Think up, you drift up.
Travis: Amazing, don't puke in the helmet though, that would be gross. (imitates puking)
Orion: Am I light enough for him to take me in?
Travis: I can't see anything. Just a cauldron on my head.
Orion: For him to carry me.
Matt: For him to carry you? Yeah, yeah.
Orion: I hop on your back. Let's go, Grog.
Travis: Great.
Marisha: I guess the rest of them are on the rug?
Travis: I can't see, so you gotta tell me. I start flying the wrong way.
Orion: Back up, the other way, other way, very good.
Matt: You actually clutch Grog by the sides of his face, and start steering him. (all laugh)
Orion: Wherever I move your head, just tilt that way.
Sam: Are we all in flight now?
Liam: We're all taken care of, yes.
Sam: And the carpet?
Liam: Tiberius, Percy, and I are on the carpet.
Sam: What about Vex? Is she with us?
Ashley: She's on the carpet.
Sam: She's staying behind.
Matt: Vex, for the time being, because it's just easier to organize for that, is coming on the carpet with you guys, and is preparing in case she is needed.
Taliesin: She's just quiet 'cause she's feeling smug about the last game.
Liam: Yes.
Matt: She's feeling smug about making another RPG right now.
Liam: She'll be back.
Sam: I wanna see how you fly, Grog.
Orion: It's really rickety!
Travis: It's one arm in and one forward. (all laugh)
Orion: Just think.
Liam: Do you propel yourself with thoughts?
Matt: It's an awkward zig zag.
Taliesin: Do you think happy thoughts?
Marisha: I'm gonna fly in the middle between Grog and the carpet, that way my Pass Without A Trace encompasses everybody.
Matt: All right.
Liam: I turn to Scanlan and say, Scanlan, we are probably going to die today. It has been an honor.
Sam: It has been an honor.
Ashley: You won't die today.
Sam: Only one of us will die. And it won't be me. I can be invisible. (all laugh)
Orion: You're not listening, it'll just happen.
Liam: What were you saying Tiberius?
Orion: Nothing.
Liam: Don't play it that way, what were you saying?
Orion: I was saying, if you're all finished, I'll just make you invisible right before it happens.
Matt: You guys are all coasting over the chasm. Now you're over the top of the large bridge, and the 200-foot-wide open hole in this tunnel that leads to the lake below. As you glance down, you can see just a little bit of a trickle from the soft red light that is deeper inside. You can see the small streams of lava, they're just slowly pooling at the bottom on the outskirts of the lake proper. As you begin to make it to the other side, you can see tiny shapes moving in this barely lit war camp of the duergar. As you're coasting over, and Clarota is along with you guys with his hood up, he kind of whispers into all of your heads, just, "Beware that some of these armies carry abominations created below within my city. I know not what to expect from them. So be wary." As this happens, everyone make a stealth check. Everyone, because of the Pass Without A Track, everyone gets a plus ten to their stealth check.
Travis: Plus ten?
Matt: Plus ten. Thanks to Keyleth.
Sam: Thank God.
Matt: Keyleth, however, you are carrying two gnomes, so you have a disadvantage on it.
Ashley: Oh no.
Liam: It's all right.
Marisha: Even with the plus 10? 18?
Matt: 18.
Sam: 15.
Taliesin: 22.
Travis: 27.
Sam: Wow.
Ashley: 23.
Liam: 28.
Matt: All right. You guys begin to crest over the very top of the war camp, and looking down you can see now, there are what looks to be the beginnings of tunneling siege engines being constructed.
Sam: What? Siege?
Matt: Siege. You can see giant wheeled carts with drills up front, giant auger bores that are being currently constructed. You can see what looks like a series of weapons being stacked at the ready. You can see there is a preparation for some sort of attack on the city above.
Liam: Want to take Kraghammer.
Matt: Continue to press ahead. There does not seem to be any reaction to your flying.
Sam: Don't say anything.
Liam: This close to the ceiling.
Ashley: Good thing we didn't cast the light.
Orion: We can all talk to each other.
Sam: Whisper to each other. Shut up!
Marisha: Oh, cool.
Sam: Just wait 'til we get there.
Matt: You guys make it towards the center portion of the city.
Travis: Roll shake it, roll shake it, roll shake it.
Taliesin: Die rolls.
Matt: You can just start beginning to see the opening in the center of this war camp. There is a circle where there are no tents constructed, you can see what looks to be a small wooden platform, and there is a stone building that is of makeshift functional construction. Not pretty, but functional, looks like a barracks, or some sort of a large bunker. Right on the northern side of that opening, that center portion of the war camp. That would be what you saw, both the general and the mind flayer head of this encampment go into last time you--
Sam: The barracks.
Matt: Yes.
Sam: With a roof?
Matt: There is a roof to it, you don't know if there's any roof access. But there is a roof.
Liam: Tiberius, can you turn me invisible now.
Orion: (sputtering)
Sam: But we're still in the air, right? He's gotta concentrate on that.
Liam: He's sitting on the carpet.
Sam: Yeah but he's--
Marisha: Thinking about--
Sam: Him flying.
Orion: I cast invisibility on you, that's when everything happens. (all laugh)
Marisha: Just falls from the air.
Liam: So are we floating above?
Matt: You guys are currently floating about 100 to 150 feet above the war camp, you do not appear to have been noticed yet.
Travis: Get down there and wing it.
Sam: Should we land on the roof? Or do we land right outside the barracks door? What do we do?
Ashley: Roof, roof, roof.
Sam: You guys wanna stay up and we'll go down?
Travis: You go! Yes.
Sam: Yeah?
Travis: Yes!
Marisha: We can start on the roof, that way that gives us time.
Liam: But I can't go invisible while you're flying.
Travis: Who needs you to be invisible? You're a stealthy bastard.
Orion: We land on the roof, we get in there, I cast Invisibility on you, and then you go do your thing.
Liam: We're running the risk of as we come down on Duergar, going (groans).
Orion: We would risk that anyway, either way.
Sam: I'm so scared right now. (all laugh)
Travis: Why don't we land on the roof and we all lay flat, except for the people that are going in, and you cast Invisibility.
Sam: This is the exact conversation they had when they were about to go kill Osama. (all laugh)
Orion: Wait, I have an idea.
Travis: Oh God.
Orion: Is there enough weight for me get on the carpet at this point?
Ashley: This is fucking stressful.
Matt: You can certainly try. There was weight, but you're not aware of how much was on it.
Orion: Yes I do, it's 1000 pounds.
Matt: You don't know how much weight is on there, total.
Orion: Everybody, how much do you weigh?
Sam: Don't ask a woman that!
Orion: I'm sorry, Your Highness, but I need to know. The idea is if, I can step off on the carpet, and hang with you guys, then Grog you can float down to the whatchamacallit, and take Vax here, then I can, oh shit, I need to be near you to cast it, damn it! (all laugh)
Marisha: Let's just land on the roof.
Ashley: Let's land on the roof.
Liam: We're gonna go in, we're gonna hit the roof, you turn me invisible, he turns him invisible, you guys light up the night, and we just do it, we just gotta go.
Ashley: We're lighting up now?
Sam: You light up on the roof? Let's look for access first. Don't light up 'til we give the go aside.
Ashley: We're still not safe stealthy.
Orion: We need to wait before we light up.
Liam: If anyone takes notice, then turn off the lights.
Sam: By the way--
Taliesin: Do not light up until you see the black or greens of their eyes.
Sam: By the way, Clarota-- Clarota you have definitely picked the right people to assist you.
Matt: There's no verbal response, but you do just emotionally sense a slight hint of regret. (all laugh)
Matt: Emanating from the mind flayer.
Sam: We got this! All right, let's go land on the roof.
Liam: All right, let's do it.
Matt: You guys descend.
Orion: Down, down.
Matt: Eagle flies down, you both, (wind rushing), as part of the landing, everyone make a secondary stealth check.
Taliesin: We still have that plus 10?
Marisha: We still have that plus 10?
Matt: You still have the spell.
Orion: Oh yes!
Marisha: Oh, that was cocked.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Marisha: Oh, no!
Taliesin: You're a terrible person.
Sam: 30.
Orion: 20.
Marisha: I'm like those boobies, that crash land when they fall.
Matt: You rolled at disadvantage?
Marisha: Well, I rolled a one.
Matt: Okay. Two failures.
Taliesin: That's a 15, 29.
Travis: 23.
Ashley: 21.
Liam: 28.
Matt: Pass Without A Trace is the saving grace. A bit of a harsh landing, from your perspective, but thankfully you have two small gnomes to break your fall.
Ashley: (groan)
Sam: (groan)
Matt: You drag them a little bit across the stonework on the top. It's not stonework, actually. Most of this whole thing, is stonework, it looks like the roof of this is made of like a thick scavenged wood. Whether it was taken from the surface or from the mines itself, it is just wooden planks that are all keeping--
Ashley: Let's go in through the roof.
Taliesin: It's reclaimed, it's very nice.
Liam: If that thing sees us, though, it could be game over. I still think we should stick to the plan of blinding it.
Orion: Yeah, do it.
Sam: So some of us need to go inside.
Liam: You and I.
Travis: Yeah, the two go inside, and if shit goes down, we light it up.
Liam: I will fucking yell into my earring if shit goes down, and you guys gotta pray for me.
Travis: Go find shit!
Sam: We look around for any roof access.
Travis: Come on, Chip 'n' Dale.
Matt: Looking around, there is no roof entrance. It looks like it is purely a functional roof for any weathering, rocks, you do see there are a few small rocks and pieces of cavern that may have plummeted here.
Sam: No chimneys.
Matt: No chimneys, no nothing, there doesn't appear to be a fireplace, or any sort of interior like that. Glancing over the sides, you can see that on the floor-- You can't really tell if there's two floors or not, it looks tall enough to have two floors, but you don't see a set of windows or anything that belies that to you. May just be a really tall single floor. But there are a couple of small window openings, one on each side of-- [static]
Sam: We're gonna go--
Liam: Tiberius, could you do me a favor of making me disappear?
Orion: Yes, when I do this, though, it's going to be very cool. (all laugh)
Liam: Holy shit, where are my hands?
Orion: Right?
Matt: You immediately disappear from view. You currently, visually do not exist.
Marisha: And you still have my buff.
Travis: We're like, flat on the roof, right?
Matt: You guys are all on the roof now, you're fine. Your Fly spell vanishes, you feel your weight return to you for a second. For a split moment you're a little sad, 'cause you were having fun.
Travis: Oh. (all laugh)
Travis: I was a dancer.
Sam: We can see the window, we pick one of the sides, I don't know, west side.
Matt: West side!
Sam: Is it a single pane? Is it an openable window?
Matt: As you glance over, it is just an opening. There is no glass. There is nothing blocking the way. It is about roughly big enough to fit a normal-sized half-elf or human.
Liam: I take Scanlan by the scruff, and swing him down.
Sam: Oh, I turn invisible.
Matt: As you grab him and you're bringing him down, you cast Invisibility on yourself, you both vanish now, all the rest of you are kind of holding your breath, hoping that now that you don't know what's happening, it's gonna go well.
Liam: I'm scaling in after him.
Liam: Go ahead and just make an acrobatics check.
Sam: Don't roll a one, please don't drop me.
Liam: 18.
Matt: All right, yeah, you're good. You gingerly scale down the wall, the stones thankfully are just haphazardly put together, where there's enough grip space for you to catch on.
Sam: I have a climbing kit! (all laugh)
Liam: We're in, we're in.
Matt: Little late for that, but okay. (all laugh)
Matt: You lower him down, you bring him inside, you step down through the opening, into the center of the hallway.
Sam: We can't talk to each other.
Travis: Yes we get a map, finally!
Sam: We can't signal each other, and we don't know where each other is. I hold his hand. (all laugh)
Liam: We're holding hands, I'm leaning way down on the side.
Travis: 'Course you are.
Liam: Sam and I have done this before.
Orion: I use my earring.
Sam: I'm not gonna talk back to you, so whatever you say.
Orion: Just to remind you of how these particular things work, I'm not actually talking right now. So you can just talk to each other through the rings.
Matt: As the two of you step into this room, you look about you, and there are some ramshackle, makeshift beds in the room. Five to be exact, from right to left. This appears to be one portion of a barracks-type sleeping arrangement. Beds are empty, they're kind of tossed, they're not like well-kept or anything. There's sheets kind of tossed about, and it smells awful in here, but it--
Liam: First, I just heard Tiberius' voice in my head. So I'm going to test it out and think. Scanlan, can you hear me?
Sam: Can I hear him?
Matt: From?
Liam: I heard Tiberius whispering about.
Sam: From thoughts only, can I hear him?
Matt: No.
Liam: I tug on his hand to keep going into the barracks.
Sam: I notice that his hand is weirdly cold and sweaty.
Matt: Yeah, not weirdly.
Liam: You just lean to live with the stage fright, you never move past it. Should we pause right now?
Marisha: You didn't bring your stuff?
Laura: I didn't have it!
Orion: Come on in!
Liam: Look, my sister's here.
Laura: Hello!
Liam: We'll make it work. We'll bring you up to speed later, you're on the roof of Osama Bin Laden's house. (all laugh)
Liam: So question for the DM, I'm invisible. Do I need to stealth, do I stealth?
Matt: There's still a stealth check 'cause you're invisible, but noise is still a factor. You just have advantage on your stealth check.
Liam: So, I think we should probably stealth. And start moving in.
Sam: Yeah, that's, we tug each other.
Matt: Beyond being invisible, you guys make your stealth check.
Sam: I mean, I'm invisible, and I rolled a five.
Matt: You have an advantage, you roll twice. 'Cause you're both invisible.
Sam: 13.
Liam: 20.
Matt: All right. You both feel you're stealthed, there is one opening into a hallway here.
Liam: We have, does anyone have a laser light?
Travis: Yep.
Liam: All right.
Travis: Squeeze it together. Press the little button.
Liam: Squeeze it together? Ah, there we go. Okay so we're going to go down here.
Matt: Down to this one. As you guys step out, you can see immediately there are two duergar guards right by a door that leads to a central chamber.
Liam: So we're gonna go this way.
Matt: All right. Immediately you see--
Travis: I like how you guys have different-colored lightsabers.
Matt: Two more Duergar guards.
Travis: (lightsaber noises)
Liam: All right, I'm inching up, I'm pulling Scanlan behind me, but I'm inching up to this door, just peeking through, seeing what I can see.
Matt: Okay, looking inside, you can see these small symbols, basically just red stone, the glow stone, that lights the underground caverns here and in a large portion of Kraghammer, are just embedded in the wall in a small sconce. Peering through here, you see one against the wall, you also see along the edges here, what looks to be racks of spears and pikes and hammers and various war accoutrements of weapons, just hanging, and there's a set of armor, over a small, wooden arrangement, the armor itself is just being stored there. This looks to be like a fast-grab armory.
Liam: Okay. I pull Scanlan by the hand, and we enter into this room.
Sam: This is so romantic.
Liam: It's just like the day we met, Sam.
Matt: You guys enter.
Liam: Quietly walking this way. We're past the door, that looks like the front door.
Matt: It is the front door, it is currently closed, though.
Liam: We're gonna keep going this way.
Sam: Oh man, we're doing-- we're flanking!
Matt: Just come out this way. There is one duergar here. There doesn't appear to be a doorway or entrance to the central chamber on this side of the hallway.
Sam: That's pretty good.
Liam: I still have the pitch in a bucket. The shit in a bucket in my hand, by the way.
Sam: We can take these guys, I'm not worried about that.
Liam: But we'd make noise. How far apart are the two duergar standing in that door?
Matt: They're about five feet apart, just enough space, like one is on each side of the doorway.
Liam: Okay.
Sam: Wait. What are those red things right there?
Matt: Those are the small sconces with the glow stone, the red stone that lights the--
Sam: So we're trying to get there.
Orion: -- with Greater Invisibility, so you can attack, and you'll still be invisible.
Liam: I pull a gold coin out of my pocket, and throw it in this corner.
Sam: This is straight up Metal Gear. (all laugh)
Matt: Go ahead and just make a general dexterity check.
Liam: And because of Keyleth, I have advantage, correct?
Matt: Yes.
Orion: Sure do.
Liam: So this is, what is this?
Matt: Just a dexterity modifier.
Liam: So that's a 17.
Matt: All right, you-- (coin ringing) Ringing sound, both of the duergar kinda look over. They look at each other. Grunt for a second. This one nods her head and begins walking over to inspect it, this one stays at its post.
Marisha: (Metal Gear voice) Must have been my imagination. (all laugh)
Liam: I pull Scanlan behind me, and tiptoe right behind this asshole.
Travis: Do it! Put it in him!
Liam: And take out my vorpal blade. And reach out and grab him by the hair and stick it in the back of his neck.
Sam: You got my dice.
Matt: All right, so, as you reach up, you grasp the back of this really nasty, wiry, thick duergar hair--
Liam: I'm so tense right now.
Matt: You yank the head back, and take the base of the blade, go ahead and make an attack roll. It's a surprise roll, so you have an advantage on the attack.
Liam: Okay, good.
Matt: I believe you have a bonus too, if you get the attack.
Liam: Yes.
Marisha: Sneak attack?
Liam: Well, I get-- Yes, I get advantage, but you can't triple up on advantage I believe? (loud bang offscreen)
Sam: What was that?
Matt: That was to freak you out. All right, so just double-checking here as part of your ability.
Sam: Remember every 50 subscribers gets a free giveaway.
Orion: Subscribe now, kids.
Ashley: What is that smile?
Matt: If you score it, and the creature is surprised, it is a critical hit, that's the other thing I was going to mention.
Liam: Thank you. So this isn't a dexterity check, this is an attack.
Matt: This is an attack.
Liam: Okay. So that's a 26.
Matt: That is going to hit, and that is a critical hit. Go ahead and roll damage with Sneak Attack.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Laura: Die die die.
Liam: I'm sweating. Okay, that's two plus seven is nine. That's nine, that's just that part. Six. Seven. Nine. 14. And 19. Which is, what's doubled, the Sneak Attack damage?
Matt: The Sneak Attack damage and the dice damage.
Matt: And the dice damage, 19 plus, is 26, 52.
Marisha: Oh!
Taliesin: Whoa!
Matt: As you pull the head back, you can hear a slight, a slight (gurgles) is about as much noise as can make it out before the blade just, right out the front of its throat, blocking any passage of the air. As you hold it, you twist the blade, it goes limp in your hand, but you catch it and keep holding it there, so it doesn't make any noise. You're now clutching a dead duergar.
Sam: Easy, easy.
Ashley: (shushes) Night-night.
Laura: Oh yeah!
Travis: Lean him up against the wall! Like he's standing there.
Liam: Just had a thought, I'm going to sit him back against the wall, and let him slide against it, and grab Scanlan, and into the room.
Matt: Into this room?
Marisha: There's Scanlan.
Taliesin: He's still standing up, kind of.
Laura: Why is he leading Scanlan, what's happening?
Liam: (shushes)
Sam: While I'm invisible, I look around for traps. I'm just gonna see if there's any trap doors.
Matt: Go ahead and make a perception check.
Sam: Not great?
Liam: I got a 28.
Sam: Nine.
Matt: You notice no traps. What you do notice, though, is there a giant kind of war room table, at the top of this raised platform. It's about six feet up, and there's a stairway that leads up to it. You see at the table. One of the illithid mind flayers. The armored general that you saw before. And there are two other duergar currently at the table.
Travis: Nope, nope, nope, nope.
Ashley: Stay invisible.
Sam: We can't communicate.
Travis: You guys have got seconds until that other guard comes back.
Liam: We can't talk.
Matt: You hear footsteps behind you.
Liam: I put the bucket of shit into Scanlan's hands.
Laura: What are you doing?
Liam: Give him a little nudge, a gentle little nudge.
Sam: I step forward into the room, and I hurl it at the fucker's face. The mind controllers.
Liam: And I'm rolling behind him at the same time. Behind the illithid, ready to go.
Matt: So I'll say you go up here as well?
Liam: Oh yeah, behind him, behind him.
Laura: What is happening?
Matt: Make a stealth check, both of you.
Travis: Oh God, oh God. Oh God, over extended.
Sam: Wait, do we get the plus ten to stealth?
Matt: No.
Liam: Plus advantage, oh thank christ.
Sam: 19.
Liam: Using Scanlan's advantage, so 16, 29. (sighs)
Matt: Okay. You slink up behind, seemingly unnoticed. There's a slight twitch to the mind flayer's head, for a second, as you go ahead, and take a big ol'--
Sam: Bucket of shit!
Matt: And fling it. (all laugh)
Matt: Go ahead and make an attack roll. It would be, you're not proficient with goblin shit buckets, unfortunately, so go ahead and roll a d20, and add your dexterity.
Orion: (groans)
Sam: My dexterity?
Matt: Dexterity or strength, whichever's higher, strength higher?
Sam: No, no, strength is not higher for me. Oh, it is higher! So 19.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: Oh my God.
Matt: You fling it as the Invisibility spell wears off of you as part of the attack, you fling the bucket. A spray of thick, green, goblin fecal matter goes streaking through the air as the illithid turns, its eyes wide, to see you suddenly appear, and then suddenly see this entire batch of thick goblin shit just (splashes) across its face. Suddenly you see his tentacles writhing, as it screams, all of you hear in your head a scream.
Liam: I'm stabbing, I'm stabbing!
Orion: I cast Stoneskin immediately.
Matt: As this happens, you cast Stoneskin, you go in for the blade, and you hear a counter voice in your mind.
Ashley: Fuck.
Matt: Clarota going, "Now."
Marisha: I cast Light on Grog's head!
Matt: Your head comes to an extremely bright glow, all of you averting your gaze.
Liam: This is stealth, right? Stealth for me?
Matt: No, you're invisible.
Liam: Oh, okay.
Sam: Attack, attack, kill him!
Liam: 29! 29!
Matt: That definitely rolls to hit, you have surprise. Go ahead and roll.
Liam: That's a critical, right? I'm assassinating this mother fucker.
Matt: It's a critical, technically. Yep.
Sam: We're going for the general?
Liam: The illithid can control us all.
Ashley: Should we go in?
Orion: We don't know anything.
Matt: So, roll damage on this.
Liam: Roll my damage.
Orion: We just heard a scream. Oh, we can act on that.
Travis: And I rage.
Matt: Stone skin. Light on his head.
Travis: Rage.
Matt: Going into a rage.
Ashley: Daylight on my shield.
Matt: Daylight on your shield.
Laura: I'm so happy to be here. (all laugh)
Matt: I will say for the purposes of this battle, there is no Trinket here, because Trinket would not have fit across the way to get there.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Didn't you give her an arrow?
Taliesin: Yes, and you have an entrapment arrow now.
Laura: Okay, I get ready for that.
Liam: Okay, DM? 62 into the back of his head.
Taliesin: Oh, shit!
Travis: 62?
Ashley: How?
Liam: Critical hit.
Matt: You take the blade, and as it pierces the back--
Liam: Oh, it's a poison one by the way.
Orion: Damn!
Matt: It pierces the back of its skull, you feel the muscles in its neck tense in reaction to the blade, but the blade slips past. You can see a gout of purplish-black blood begin to spill from its neck, as it instinctually reaches up, and pulls the blade from the back of its head. What's the DC on the poison?
Liam: I have no idea.
Matt: It should be on the blade info.
Liam: Poison dagger.
Taliesin: Fuck. Ah!
Liam: I think it's oh, it's 15.
Taliesin: This was a good plan.
Matt: The poison does not seem to take effect, the body resists it. It is still alive. But it's clutching the back of its neck, as it turns around going (sputters), you can see its blood spurting out of its mouth, and its eyes are now just burning with rage. All the rest of these duergar are now reaching and pulling their weapons out. Everyone roll initiative. (all yell)
Laura: I don't have my stuff with me.
Liam: Natural 20.
Matt: Oh, shit.
Sam: Let's kill some bad guys.
Travis: I don't know what you're doing.
Matt: All right, so. 25 to 20?
Liam: 20. Natural 20.
Matt: But you have no bonuses? You should have your dex bonus too.
Liam: Oh yeah, that's a 25.
Matt: So, I'm gonna say you're probably going in first, buddy.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Matt: All right, 20, 25 to 20, anyone else?
Laura: Oh, I think I got like a 21.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Laura: I got 16 plus--
Matt: Yep, that'd be 21, yeah. All right, so. 19, anyone?
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: 19, nice.
Laura: No.
Taliesin: Gonna wing it.
Matt: 18, anyone?
Travis: 18.
Matt: Nice.
Orion: I got 16.
Marisha: Do you have like a picture, or a file anywhere, saved of your--
Laura: I got jack shit!
Marisha: Of your sheet?
Liam: We snuck into the war camp.
Laura: We're in the war camp?
Liam: We all landed on the top of their main building.
Matt: So, what's your?
Sam: 14.
Orion: I have 16.
Matt: 16, all right, so Tiberius. Scanlan, what was yours?
Ashley: Nine.
Marisha: Also nine.
Ashley: Not to brag.
Travis: Ashley's first two rolls were 20s.
Matt: All right, top of the round is Vax, with initiative.
Liam: I'm just gonna (grunts) in the back of his head some more. I'm still invisible according to Tiberius' Greater Invisibility spell.
Orion: No no no, as soon as I cast Stoneskin, you were attacking, that's why I said this is all going--
Matt: You are now visible, you are not stealthed.
Liam: Stab him in the back of the head. For assassinate, do I get the critical still here, DM?
Matt: No. You've gotten the one hit, it is completely aware of you, it is not a surprise attack.
Liam: So this is a 28.
Matt: It is so aware of you, it has never been more aware of you in its life. (all laugh)
Liam: I just rolled a 28.
Matt: Okay, that definitely hits. Attacking with your off hand?
Liam: Oh, so this is my bonus attack?
Matt: Yeah, you get the one attack, then you get the bonus hand. Which is just dice damage.
Liam: Okay, this is fire. My flame tongue dagger, I got two plus six is eight.
Matt: Eight?
Liam: Eight.
Matt: All right. And your other attack? Are you doing your bonus attack?
Liam: Was that the bonus attack? Or was that my main attack?
Matt: This is your new combat round, that was your main attack.
Liam: That's a nine, and here comes my bonus attack. Okay, 14.
Marisha: Kill him.
Liam: 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Liam: Here comes my keen dagger. Which is an eight.
Matt: Eight damage?
Liam: Yes.
Matt: So the first strike, you swing across with the flame tongue dagger. As it backs up, you put another gash across the front of its neck and chest area. It reels back and is looking at you with angry fury. You feel this coming shake, this horrible force of severe retribution coming to your mind, and as you're bracing for it, you take your other blade, you see its mouth opens up with frustration and anger as its tentacles kinda curl back, and just go in for the grab. You place the blade squarely into that maw, you feel the scraping of its teeth across your knuckles, but it doesn't matter, because whatever anger and light was once in its face, goes dark and dull. (all cheer)
Matt: As immediately it crumples to the ground, lifeless, pull the blade from the maw, mind flayer down. (all cheer)
Marisha: Yeah Vax!
Matt: He was next, but not anymore. As it falls to the ground, all the rest of the duergar immediately have a reaction. We'll get to their turn in a second. Vex, you're up. So you're on the roof, up here right now.
Sam: Gotta get inside first.
Laura: We have to run down in?
Matt: Run down, you're on a wooden roof surface, you heard before there's an entrance here, and an entrance there.
Liam: Windows are swing-down-in-able.
Sam: Unless Grog can just tear through the roof.
Laura: What was your initiative?
Liam: It's wood.
Taliesin: You can hold initiative.
Laura: I guess I'll hold, I'll hold, to see what the hell's happening.
Matt: So you hold on that. It is now this dude's turn, the general. He, unaffected by this, it seems, just angrily leaps on to the table, runs across, (groans), and jumps down towards you. As he does, you see his physical form seems to enlarge. His actual small dwarvish form begins to swell, his muscles tense. He's about the size of a normal person, if not a little bigger right now. He comes at you with this giant black, jagged metal war hammer. (groans) Comes down to swing at you, as he comes down, you see it burst into flame. There's fire now surrounding the head of this war hammer as it arcs toward you.
Sam: What?
Matt: That is going to be a 24 to hit.
Liam: Oh, it hits, but I use Uncanny Dodge to try to swoop out of the way as best I can.
Matt: All righty. You suffer-- That would be... 12 plus six fire damage, so, 18, reduced to nine. You take nine damage from the strike. As it strikes down, it goes for a back swing to attack you a second time. That is going to be a 15 versus AC. This time you just dodge completely out of the way. Derge out of the way.
Marisha: Derge.
Liam: Er mah gerd, I derged. (all laugh)
Matt: Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Just in case, I'm going to push off and wait for Grog. So I'm holding my turn.
Matt: Okay, Grog, your turn.
Travis: Right, so we're on the roof of the thing, right?
Matt: Correct, you are.
Travis: I'm in a rage, I take the pot still on my head, and I pick up my ax, and I draw one gigantic smash through the roof of the building.
Matt: Go ahead and make a strength check.
Taliesin: God, yes.
Orion: This is all you're good for.
Marisha: Yes, come on Grog. This is all you're good for.
Travis: 15.
Matt: 15?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Come on.
Sam: 15?
Matt: You bring your ax up, you bring it down on top as hard as you can, go ahead and roll ax damage.
Travis: Is that a d12?
Matt: It's a d12 plus your strength modifier. Plus two 'cause you're raging.
Travis: Do I get advantage on that?
Matt: No.
Travis: Seven.
Laura: Plus two 'cause you're raging.
Travis: Nine.
Matt: Nine damage, okay. As you swing the ax down, slam, it hits the wood. With the sheer weight of you there, and most of you guys conglomerated at that point, the actual roof breaks open and splits, into a small space. You slide down in the process.
Ashley: I jump on to Grog's foot. (all laugh)
Matt: All right. Go ahead, both of you make an acrobatics check.
Ashley: Oh, I wouldn't have had to do it. All right, well, I'm in the building.
Travis: 21.
Matt: Acrobatics check?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Pike? You have disadvantage 'cause you're in plate armor.
Ashley: Six.
Matt: All right, so Grog, you manage to land on your feet. Pike, you actually plummet off and fall off to the side, right there. You are currently prone, and from the fall, which you guys both dropped down, you managed to reduce the damage, but you from the fall, you take eight points of fall damage. You are now flat on your back, the wind knocked out of you for a minute.
Sam: Pike!
Ashley: I'm okay, I'm okay!
Sam: Oh okay, thank God.
Matt: All right. That brings us now, Vex and Percy are the same.
Taliesin: You first? Or should I go first?
Laura: Let's go down at the same time.
Taliesin: We'll go, we both jump down at the same time.
Matt: Both jump down, go ahead and make your acrobatics checks, guys.
Taliesin: 20.
Laura: Oh, I rolled really bad.
Matt: What did you roll?
Laura: I rolled a two, but I add it to my acrobatics.
Matt: Yes, which is?
Sam: Which you don't know.
Laura: Which is like, I bet.
Matt: Your acrobatics, as you're proficient in it, and you have plus five dex, so that would bring it to 11?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Or no, 12.
Laura: Yes.
Liam: Did you bring any Wheaton power from the other room? (all laugh)
Matt: You just barely land on your feet, you do take fall damage, but you don't fall prone. You take eight points of fall damage. Percy, you manage to land fine, without any damage, on your feet. On the ground, both of you kind of three-point landing. Avengers style.
Taliesin: Do I have time to get a shot off?
Matt: You do, that was your movement. So what's the deal?
Taliesin: Wow, I'm taking a second, and I see that Vax is getting attacked, and I'm gonna just take a shot at the-- The guy with the hammer. The biggest thing I see.
Matt: Do you have your glasses or goggles on?
Taliesin: Yeah, that's right, I have a helmet. So yeah, I'm wearing the helmet. I'm cool with that.
Matt: So go for it.
Liam: Do it, Starlord.
Taliesin: Ah! A natural 20. (all cheer)
Matt: Against the general, or one of the duergar?
Taliesin: The general.
Liam: The guy on the table attacking me.
Matt: Yeah, you can just barely see him, the stairway is up there.
Taliesin: Doesn't matter, as long as I have-- partial cover, it don't matter.
Matt: Right, I know, and he does have, he has three-quarters cover because of the distance, but you natural 20'd, so it doesn't matter.
Taliesin: I can ignore it, I ignore three-quarters cover.
Matt: You do, because--
Taliesin: I'm awesome.
Matt: Yep. (all laugh)
Taliesin: So that's double 1d-- I should have gotten some bonuses on that, I'm an idiot. Plus five. It's just double dice damage?
Matt: Double dice damage, then add your modifier.
Marisha: Woo!
Taliesin: That's 19 points of damage.
Matt: To the general, nice.
Marisha: Nice.
Matt: (explosion) He gets shot in the back of the shoulderplate, you hear it ricochet and a little bit of blood begins to streak off the back of his head. He looks over his shoulder with an angry grunt, you can see now this dwarf, who's still swelling in size. It looks, (growls), an angry nostril flare. You, have your bow ready?
Laura: I wanna do Lightning Arrow on the guy attacking my brother.
Matt: That guy there?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and roll to attack.
Laura: Ugh, I don't think I hit.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Laura: I had rolled a four.
Matt: A four, you had a plus 11 to hit, it's going to be a 15, unfortunately you miss. The arrow streaks past. Yeah, the arrow just ended up striking the wall back here and (explosion) arcs lightning throughout the wall, unfortunately does not--
Laura: I Hunter's Mark him anyway, just for future stuff.
Matt: You used your--
Laura: That was a bon--
Matt: You used your bonus action to cast Lightning Arrow.
Laura: Oh! So I get a regular attack now?
Matt: Well, that was part of your regular attack, like your next arrow you fired.
Laura: I get it. (all laugh)
Taliesin: You're going off-book, this is cool.
Matt: I think, let me double-check real fast, just to be sure. Because I don't wanna screw you out of a cool turn.
Laura: That is mine!
Matt: Next time bring your sheet.
Laura: I'm sorry.
Matt: That's okay. Yeah that's a bonus action to cast lightning, into your next arrow you fire, however, you do have two attacks. So you can shoot a second time. It just isn't affected by Lightning Arrow.
Laura: I roll 14.
Matt: That does hit, go ahead and roll damage there's 1d10, plus--
Laura: I think it was 1d8, actually.
Matt: Oh, for the longbow? Okay, 1d8 plus five for your dex, and then plus two for the bow. Plus seven.
Laura: Ten.
Matt: Ten damage, all right. So first arrow just streaks off, hits the wall. As he's kind of staring at Percy, he looks towards you, and as he does, the second arrow sticks into the plate, he kinda looks at it. (grunts) Just snaps it off in the armor. Grabbing his two-handed sword, or sorry, the war hammer in the other hand. Minis, it's confusing. All right, that ends your turn. Grog, the light that is beaming from your helmet currently right now is filling up the room, and it is extremely bright, most of you guys can handle it. You see all the duergar at the table like (groans), bunch of duergar come running in as well, as they run in, they're having to shield their eyes, but it's actually physically hurting them to be in that room right now. They're like (groans). Keeping it at bay, this one attempts to run in, this one's kind of making its way over. These guys here, this one's gonna go ahead and run here, this one's gonna go ahead and come to Grog. These two are gonna come up behind.
Sam: Is that guy the general?
Matt: That guy's the general, yes. This one's gonna come up behind to you. All right, they have disadvantage on their attacks.
Orion: Nice.
Matt: Because of the light. (all cheer)
Travis: 'Cause I'm so bright.
Matt: Attack against you.
Marisha: You're the brightest tool in the shed today.
Matt: That is a 17 versus AC. You just dodge out of the way. Next one, its war pick against you, Grog.
Ashley: Get skinny, get skinny.
Matt: That is 20 versus AC?
Travis: That hits.
Matt: That hits, all right. You take eight points of damage as it slams you with its war pick in the chest, you can feel it kind of gets about a half an inch of depth into it, but you just kind of shrug it off, and flex your muscles and it pops it out of your torso.
Travis: That's cute.
Matt: The two against you. That'll be a 19 versus AC.
Laura: Oh, yeah, that hits for sure.
Matt: And a 17 versus AC.
Laura: That-- hits.
Matt: All right, so you take two hits. That's 11 damage. And 13 damage as both of them start whaling you from behind with war picks.
Liam: Vex'ahlia! I yell.
Laura: 13 and what?
Matt: All right. Next up is the one that's attacking you.
Sam: Scanlan.
Matt: Scanlan, that's going to be, at a disadvantage, a 15 versus armor class.
Sam: 14.
Matt: 14? That still strikes you. You take eight points of damage from the war pick. Slamming you over the shoulder.
Sam: (yells out) Ah, I'm so awesome, Pike! (all laugh)
Matt: That ends their go, Tiberius, you're up.
Orion: I'm still on the roof, right?
Matt: You're still on the roof, yes.
Orion: What can I see, like if I go down, what can I see?
Matt: You look through the hole, and you can see pretty much the entire battlefield. You're just up here looking down through it.
Orion: Oh, wonderful.
Matt: You're currently the only one still up there.
Orion: Yes, I think I'll stay right here, thank you very much. And how tall is the roof? How high is it? 15 feet?
Matt: It's about 25 feet up?
Orion: Okay, wonderful, wonderful. So, let me see here. This is fun.
Matt: You are technically, because I can do it.
Taliesin: Gonna use one of the little lifties, aren't you?
Matt: I am.
Marisha: Finally.
Liam: Bring the fire, Tiberus.
Sam: Oh. Toys.
Marisha: Now he's getting out toys.
Taliesin: Aw yeah.
Sam: Come on, do something.
Orion: I'm waiting for him to do something, 'cause it's so cool.
Marisha: I got him this for Christmas two years ago, and he's finally using it.
Matt: You are up here right now.
Orion: Awesome.
Travis: Three-dimensional fighting.
Liam: Toys, toys.
Matt: Is that visible?
Taliesin: Yeah. Sweet D&D rave.
Orion: Okay. I'm going to-- I see the two guards behind Vex, right? Is that what's going on?
Matt: Yep, right there.
Orion: And then the one duergar in front of Grog? Is that what's going on, too?
Matt: Yep, right there. Great, I will cast Grand Columns under all three of those dudes, and pin 'em. Right up against the roof. With my columns.
Liam: Clever girl.
Matt: The?
Orion: Pillars, yes.
Matt: But those pillars only go 15 feet up.
Orion: No, they go up to 25.
Matt: 25? Oh nice.
Orion: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: That's why I always ask that question. It does 66 bludgeoning damage when it's pinned.
Ashley: Bye bye.
Sam: If they don't make their save.
Matt: All right, so. Go ahead and what is your DC on that? Your spell DC?
Orion: 17.
Matt: 17, all right. All right, the heartiness of the duergar resilience gives them advantage on saves against spells. They all make their saves.
Sam: What?
Matt: But they are still up on these platforms now, raised above. So what is-- Does it do any damage if they make their saves?
Orion: (reading)
Sam: Come on iPhone, come on iphone!
Marisha: You're supposed to know everything!
Sam: iPhone five! This is the Fifth Edition.
Orion: Why doesn't it say? I guess it doesn't. It doesn't say.
Matt: So they are currently--
Sam: What is this madness?
Taliesin: Oh, you're crazy.
Orion: Oh, wait a minute, no. You make this call. If a pillar is prevented from reaching its full height because of a ceiling or other obstacle, a creature on the pillar takes 66 bludgeoning damage and is restrained, pinched between the pillar and obstacle. The restrained creature can use an action to make a strength or dexterity check against the spell save DC. On a success they are no longer restrained, and must either move off the pole, or fall off of it. So they still, it still happens, but they're not pinned by it. Got you, okay. So go ahead and roll damage for all of them.
Marisha: Woo!
Matt: Good to know. (sings) New spells that just got released.
Liam: There's magic in the dwarves.
Sam: Magic in them.
Liam: The duergar.
Marisha: ♫ A whole new spell
Taliesin: ♫ A fantastic way to die
Marisha: ♫ No one can tell us no
Orion: 27 damage.
Marisha: ♫ Except for Matt (all laugh)
Matt: All three of the duergar are crushed.
Sam: To death?
Matt: Against the ceiling.
Orion: I did 27 damage to each one.
Travis: Nice!
Matt: Splat, splat, splat, they're all slammed into the ceiling, you can see limp dwarf arms and legs now dangling out of the stone pillars that are now permanently embedding them into the ceiling.
Liam: Yeah, son.
Sam: Crazy room!
Orion: I go like this, hah! I use two of my sorcerer points, and I cast Quicken Spell, and I look at the general, and I-- Because of my books I've been tampering with, I cast Blight on his eyes. Okay. 'Cause I wanna. (all laugh)
Matt: What's the-- the DC is 17, you said?
Orion: Yes.
Matt: All right, natural 20. So he makes his save. (all groan)
Orion: He takes 8d8 damage, and if he saves, he takes half the damage.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: 10, 15.
Liam: They were all eights, right?
Marisha: Well, he does all of them and then divides.
Sam: But you said half.
Marisha: He rolls all of them and then divides.
Sam: I see.
Orion: 15 plus, what is that, ten, 14.
Marisha: Your first one was--
Orion: 29?
Matt: So we'll say a solid 14 points of damage. All right, gotcha. No other effect, just the damage from Blight, right?
Orion: Yeah, because he made his save.
Matt: All right, Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Oh, okay. I'm going to, (groans). God there's so few people to kill now. (all laugh)
Sam: You did it all, is it just us and the general?
Laura: Wait, that guy behind you though.
Matt: Just you guys, the general. There's a guy right behind you. Those guys got slammed.
Sam: Okay, I'm gonna cast Dominate Person on the general.
Travis: (laughs) What does that do?
Orion: Oh shit.
Taliesin: No.
Liam: He's a power top.
Matt: With advantage, he rolled a one and a two, on the saving throw. (all cheer)
Matt: That's ridiculous, okay.
Sam: I'm going to Dominate him and inform him, I can give him a command, right? Yes.
Orion: You can make him do whatever.
Sam: I'm going to tell him to stand down, and tell all of his allies to stand down.
Matt: All right. He turns around. Gives you a look, a strange look, he goes. "Men, all of you, drop your weapons! Now. We are surrendering to our new infiltrators." He throws his war hammer to the ground. The rest of them all kind of look around. Go ahead and, I'm gonna have you make intimidation check on his behalf.
Sam: Okay, on his behalf?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Do I add mine?
Matt: No, I'm just considering that, so you rolled 11?
Sam: 11. (sings along with the music)
Matt: The three other duergar look confused, look at the dead mind flayer, look at their general telling them to surrender, and they all kinda throw their weapons to the ground, and stand there with their arms to the side, kind of waiting for what's gonna happen next. As you finish that, Clarota slowly drifts down.
Sam: Oh yeah, Clarota, thanks for all the fucking help. (all laugh)
Laura: Oh no. This is gonna be bad.
Matt: Clarota just kinda looks around. Says, you hear this voice in your mind go, "I had my doubts, but, well done."
Orion: Thank you.
Matt: So. That ends that turn. Scanlan, do you want to move at all? Are you going to stay where you are?
Sam: I'm gonna stay where, well, I'm gonna move just a couple feet away from the guy right behind me, and I'm going to, as my bonus action, might as well give Grog some dice. And also just tell everyone, remember, let's not kill the general, we need him for information.
Liam: Probably if anyone tries to hit him, he'll snap out of it, so.
Sam: That's it. I also take a little poo in my pants.
Taliesin: Small kilo.
Sam: This is still-- A battle? Even though. No combatants?
Matt: I mean, if you guys are deciding not to fight anymore, what's your plan?
Marisha: I-- Come on down and I say, good work guys. That was cool, that was great.
Sam: He's under my spell.
Laura: Perhaps we should tie him up.
Marisha: That's what I was gonna say, I cast Grasping Vine and I just take a vine and I tie his hands behind his back. And kind of grapple him.
Sam: So that'll break the spell.
Marisha: Well no, I'm not damaging him, I'm just--
Liam: Hugging him.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: Hugging him with vines.
Taliesin: Vine hugs.
Matt: As this is happening, you guys feel a familiar tremble.
Sam: Oh no. Be quiet.
Matt: In the ground.
Liam: DM is out of his mind.
Matt: Everyone make a stealth check. (all laugh)
Marisha: Damn it.
Orion: Oh, that's a 20.
Sam: That is a 20.
Marisha: (whimpers) This is the second time I rolled a one on my stealth check.
Taliesin: Wow.
Marisha: I'm not stealthy today.
Ashley: 17.
Liam: 18.
Laura: 19.
Travis: 14.
Taliesin: 23.
Liam: Pretty good overall.
Orion: Two.
Sam: 22.
Matt: All right. There is the rumble, gets louder and louder, and you can see the duergar looking around nervously. The rumbling kind of fades for a second. And with a cacophonous cracking sound, the stone floor beneath you splits open.
Sam: No!
Matt: Right here.
Liam: (groans)
Matt: Percy, make an acrobatics check and try to avoid whatever is coming through.
Sam: Whatever? It's a dragon!
Taliesin: 18.
Liam: It's a worm.
Matt: All right, you manage to just pull out of the way. As a large--
Laura: What the fuck is that?
Marisha: What is that?
Matt: A large armored four-legged creature comes bursting out of the ground around you.
Orion: Oh great, it's a rock butthole. (all laugh)
Matt: Lets out this horrible screeching growl, has this kind of hungry look in its eyes.
Marisha: Can I reactionary real quick, take my Grasping Vine and just lift him and kind of put him in the corner to keep the general safe?
Matt: Unfortunately, no.
Orion: Is he rooted?
Matt: He is currently-- Is considered grappled.
Liam: I have a question.
Marisha: I was just trying to keep him safe.
Liam: Can we take a potty break before?
Sam: A potty break? No breaks tonight!
Liam: No breaks?
Marisha: No breaks.
Matt: We're pushing through. You need a bottle.
Marisha: Exercise your kegels.
Matt: If you really need to go, you can. When it's not your turn.
Liam: No, I'm fine.
Sam: Just pee on Ashley, it's okay.
Crew: Suck it up, man.
Matt: As this entity comes burrowing up from underneath the ground, it immediately makes a strike against--
Sam: Guys, this is so exciting. And Laura has no idea what's going on.
Laura: No clue, good times.
Matt: This is gonna be a bite attack against you, Percy. That is, all right, 24 versus armor class.
Travis: Shit, bite is at 24.
Taliesin: Yeah, that-- That hits.
Matt: As you reactively attempt to move out of the way, this creature comes tearing out of the ground. Gets its bearings, rears back, and this giant, toothy maw comes clamping down onto your entire torso. You suffer 36 points of piercing damage.
Sam: Oh!
Taliesin: The fuck?
Marisha: 36?
Matt: 36 points of piercing damage. That's going to end its turn.
Marisha: Shit.
Matt: Pike, you're up.
Ashley: Okay, well.
Taliesin: That hurt.
Ashley: I'm still prone?
Matt: You are prone, you can use your movement to get back up.
Ashley: Okay, I use my movement to get back up. Do I also get an attack for doing that?
Matt: You still have your action, and your bonus action, it's just your move.
Ashley: Okay. I will use Guiding Bolt, and I'm gonna shoot that thing.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll for the attack.
Sam: That's my girlfriend.
Travis: Come on, Pike.
Marisha: Does this guy appear to be messed up by the Daylight at all?
Ashley: Okay. Do I add anything?
Matt: You add your spell attack modifier, it's on your spell sheet. So the top of your spell sheet.
Ashley: Sorry guys. Oh sweet, okay, so. That would be 25.
Matt: That definitely hits. So, Guiding Bolt, what does that do?
Ashley: So I roll, where'd it go, I roll 4d6. I roll 4d6.
Matt: 4d6, go ahead and do that.
Ashley: Yes. 16.
Matt: 16, all right. So you reach back, clutching your holy symbol. You get back off the ground, release your hand as this suddenly flaring blast of divine energy comes cascading out of the front of your palm, blasting into the side of the face, nearly searing one of the eyes of the creature. It rears back, brings one leg up instinctually, (growls) slams the ground in the process-- How you doing? That's disadvantage to your next attack.
Liam: Aw!
Ashley: Wait, what are you at?
Taliesin: I'm at 38.
Matt: It lands, puts its foot back on the ground, and kinda gears its attention towards you. It's angling around the room for what should be its next meal. Anything else you wanna do?
Ashley: Can I give him a healing potion? Can I heal him?
Matt: He's too far away. You could use your bonus action if you wanna use Healing Word.
Ashley: Okay, I'll use Healing Word.
Matt: Okay, so go ahead and roll that for him. While you're doing that, brings us-- So Clarota now gets its action.
Marisha: Yeah, Clarota!
Matt: Clarota now looks wide-eyed, seeing this happen. You hear a slight voice in the back of your head go, "This is complicating." As it rears back, you hear the slight echoing, screeching sound, that just manages to skirt the outside of your mental capacity. You feel like if you were any closer, or if it was directed towards you, it would be a horrible ringing pain in your head. You're just peripheral to it. It makes its attack. Unfortunately, the exterior, the bulette, and/or its mind shielding is too strong, it seems to have no effect on the creature.
Sam: Damn it! Clarota, worthless!
Matt: A bulette, is the entity. That ends its turn, top of the round, Vax.
Liam: Okay, I think, where's the laser? Here it is. It looks like I have just enough squares to go one two three. Who's this right here?
Matt: That's a duergar. Weapon on the ground, not armed right now.
Liam: Can I get to here on a turn? I can't tell.
Matt: What's your movement?
Liam: It's 30 feet. I'll use my bonus action to click my haste boots together.
Matt: Okay, then you can definitely do that.
Liam: Okay, and since Percy is right up against it, I'm able to deal Sneak Attack damage, because there's another one of its foes.
Matt: Exactly, yes. You don't get an advantage on the attack, but if you attack, you do it.
Liam: So I'm gonna try to strike him in his underbelly.
Matt: All right. Even the underbelly itself is heavily armored, you have to kind of gauge quickly where the plate is.
Liam: 20.
Matt: 20? 20 hits.
Matt: Go ahead and roll with your Sneak Attack damage.
Marisha: So 20 hits?
Liam: Oh, and it was-- Never mind. So three. There we go. 22.
Matt: 22 damage? All righty. Got it. Cool, that brings us to-- The general is going to attempt to make a saving throw.
Sam: Shit. He can do that?
Matt: Every time he gets a turn round, he gets a chance to break out of the-- And he does.
Sam: Oh, he broke out?
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: Shrugs off the mental influence of the Dominate spell. However, he is not currently armed. He uses his movement, or action to pick up the war hammer. Fury and anger is in his eyes.
Marisha: He's still grappled.
Sam: No no, he just broke out, right?
Marisha: Oh, from the grapple, too?
Matt: Yeah, he used his whole turn to break out of the grapple and grab its weapon, that's all he can do.
Sam: Where is he?
Matt: Right there.
Liam: To fight the bulette? Or to--
Matt: You have no idea.
Liam: Oh, we don't know, oh. He could just be reacting to the bulette.
Matt: The flames on the hammer are out too. But it picks up the war hammer, it's cold black steel currently.
Travis: We got our Davy Jones in the room, he'll take care of the dwarves.
Matt: That brings us to... Grog.
Travis: (groans) Kitty! I would like to go into a frenzied rage, and charge at Clifford the big red dog. (all alguH)
Matt: You leap off the higher platofrm, come rushing out with your ax in the air, as you come down using the full weight of your body behind the attack, go ahead and roll your three attacks.
Travis: All right, I have nine, eight, 17.
Sam: You have one dice from me. I've inspired you.
Travis: Oh.
Sam: (singing) Grog. Grog.
Travis: Is it a 20 or is it a what?
Matt: You get to add a d8 to an attack roll.
Sam: If you have a shitty attack roll, add a d8 to it, if you have a shitty roll.
Travis: 17.
Orion: Grog, smash right through his plate thingy.
Matt: Barely hits.
Travis: 19.
Matt: Hits, all three attacks hit.
Travis: Yeah, that one hits, 16 plus eight.
Matt: So all three attacks hit, roll damage for three hits. As you come now, just slamming your grey ax, into the side of this armored beast, just over and over again. Cleaving this nice little wide section of its armor on the side.
Liam: Take his fucking head off.
Travis: 14. 21. 21 again.
Ashley: What?
Travis: 22.
Laura: Oh, so. 22, 21, and 14.
Sam: Whoa.
Laura: I was doing his math. (all laugh)
Matt: 21, 22, and 14 you said?
Ashley: 57?
Sam: 57.
Travis: I don't wanna do math and show you all up.
Liam: That's a level nine barbarian.
Matt: So, slam him, you see a portion of its side armor splits, you can see a little bit of that dark red, fleshy interior. You do a significant amount of damage, and leave a nice little weak point in its armor. However, it still doesn't seem to be entirely phased by the damage, it just kinda shrugs at the damage, and kinda glares at you for a second. One of its eyes that was focused on Percy and Keyleth, now looks over at you Jurassic-Park style, with the t-rex up at the side of the vehicle. Vex?
Laura: I back up a little bit. Yeah, like that. And I'm gonna cast Hail of Thorns on him.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Sounds nasty.
Laura: Right? I'm gonna shoot like a regular attack.
Matt: So your bonus action to cast Hail of Thorns, and then you attack with the arrow, go for it.
Laura: Yes.
Matt: You're adding 11 to it.
Laura: Okay, good, then that'd be 18.
Matt: 18? 18 hits.
Laura: Yes, so I was casting that as a level three spell. I roll 3d-- that means I roll 3d10.
Matt: Against the creature?
Laura: Against 14 which is my spell level thingy.
Travis: 3d10.
Laura: Yeah, 1d10 for damage.
Matt: Yep, go for it.
Laura: That is an eight-sided dice, yay!
Matt: There yougo.
Laura: An eight.
Matt: That'd be 25.
Laura: I get another attack, so I'm gonna do that. Natural 20! (all cheer)
Matt: Nice, all right, go ahead and roll damage, double the dice and add your modifier of seven.
Liam: That arrow just went slow mo.
Laura: Double the dice. 15.
Matt: 15, all right. So what happens here is you pull an arrow out, as you whisper a couple of words under your breath, you see all these thorny spikes being to shoot out the shaft of the arrow. You release it and as it strikes in the front of its face, the arrow actually splinters, sending a bunch of these thorns all over its torso, piercing an inch or two into its armor with each blast of these thorns. It kinda rears back and tries to shake itself off. As it does, you get a little bit of a look as Grog backs away from it, checking to see the wound he left. You take your secondary arrow, aim for the red soft spot, boom, slips right past the armor plating, doing the extra damage on the interior of its physical self. Awesome, that's your turn I believe.
Ashley: Good turn.
Matt: Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Okay, is my hand still stuck in its mouth? (all laugh)
Taliesin: I would like it to be.
Matt: If you'd like to, yeah, you could've left it there.
Taliesin: Do I have an advantage to hit if my gun is in its mouth? (all laugh)
Matt: You are considered grappled if you leave your hand there. You can remain grappled for advantage on the attack roll.
Taliesin: Done. So I get to roll twice?
Matt: You do.
Marisha: This is a whole new meaning to point-blank.
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: 19, that'll hit.
Taliesin: Okay, I spent some grit on this, and did some interesting modifiers.
Matt: How much grit did you spend?
Taliesin: Two points of grit.
Matt: Okay, this is the--
Taliesin: The Deadshot. And I also took a negative five hit for a plus ten damage to this shot, and I'm using my fire modifier. I'm just being an asshole. (all laugh)
Marisha: That's amazing.
Taliesin: That's... 16 and 20, 35 points of fire damage inside of its mouth.
Matt: So, your hand inside, you pull back and fire, knowing which barrel is next. You hear this dull(muffled explosion) sound, and its eyes kinda pulse for a second, in intense fury and pain, smoke just billows out the sides of its mouth, and its nostrils, and it begins to kind of shake its head, lifting you about a foot off the ground, painfully, but you think it's worth the deal. Well done.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Liam: Aw man.
Matt: I will say that ends your turn.
Liam: Thank you Gary Gygax, wherever you are. (all laugh)
Matt: All right. The duergar, currently seeing the situation, and the change of tone, go and grab their weapons.
Travis: Change of tone. (all laugh)
Travis: Shit got real.
Matt: This duergar is going to move up, back to you, Scanlan, as it sees that you were the one that took over the general.
Sam: Dicks, bring it.
Liam: Dicks.
Matt: This one comes rushing in.
Marisha: Aw, come on.
Liam: Freakin' tank in the room.
Marisha: There's a bigger problem, bro.
Matt: Opportunists, man. It rushes after you, actually.
Liam: ♫ Why can't we be friends
All: ♫ Why can't we be friends
Matt: All right, the attack against you, Scanlan. That is gonna be a 17 versus AC. All right, this one is actually also physically growing in size as it comes towards you.
Sam: It's getting hard. (all laugh)
Matt: You suffer 16 points of damage.
Orion: Such a bummer.
Matt: As the war pick comes slamming into your side. You see it's coming, but you're just not fast enough. It hits you, on impact, it may have cracked a rib, you're not sure. The one that's coming up against you, rolls, that's going to be a 17 versus armor class.
Liam: Fuck you.
Matt: You see it and just duck out of the way, its war pick slams into the stone wall next to you, with a horrible screeching stone sound. High-AC rogue, yo. All right that ends their turn, Tiberius, you're up.
Orion: I'm looking in, I'm like, oh, that's no good. I look at where he made the crack in the armor, where is that, is that in the head?
Matt: It's in the head area, right over here.
Orion: Right, awesome. I'm going to kind of motion towards the mind flayer, and give a telepathic wink.
Matt: It is on the ground.
Orion: Yeah.
Sam: Are you flirting with it?
Matt: You make a telepathic wink.
Orion: And I'm going to cast Telekinesis, and I'm going to pry open the metal. I'm not going to target the creature, I'm going to target the armor.
Travis: Nice.
Matt: Interesting thought, okay. See if it-- the 17 is the DC?
Orion: Yes.
Travis: This could be cool.
Matt: All right, it fails. So here's what happens. For the effect of this. It suffers, I'm gonna say it suffers about 2d6 points of damage from the tearing. So go ahead and roll that.
Orion: Six damage.
Matt: So six damage, however, you have effectively reduced its armor class by five.
Travis: Yes!
Matt: In doing so.
Sam: Ooh!
Orion: And I'm going to spend two more sorcery points, and do the spell again. I'm going to do a-- I'm gonna do Firebolt, right in the hole. And I'm going to use my metamagic wand to fire the spell.
Marisha: Fire in the hole!
Matt: All right, go for it!
Sam: He has so many dice, it's crazy.
Orion: Oh, that hits.
Taliesin: Actually, does that crit? Does your 19 crit?
Matt: No. Usually, 20 is only crit, except for, I think he has a bonus ability.
Sam: Critical Role by the way, name of the show. (all laugh)
Matt: It's okay, you're good, and you're a fighter, which means eventually you'll end up with four attacks per round anyway, so you're fine.
Orion: Can't do that.
Taliesin: I'm looking forward to it.
Matt: Damage, what you got? Scanlan, you're on deck, by the way.
Sam: I'm ready.
Orion: I zap him, I zap him for one.
Matt: Okay. (all laugh)
Orion: No, no no no, I empowered it. Full, it takes ten damage. 'Cause I empowered the spell.
Matt: That's correct, so. As you pull down with the ray, it streaks down across the ceiling portion of the building, right into the fleshy, exposed part of its armor, now it looks like it has this giant jagged scar in the side of its head, where you can see muscle and sinew pulsing with each of its movements. You blast into it, you can see this darkened black portion of its interior flesh, it's now charred, slight embers beginning to percolate and burn on the outskirts of the impact. Well done, you gonna stay where you are?
Orion: Yes.
Matt: Scanlan, what you got?
Sam: Okay, I'm going, I know he'll get a hit on me, but I'm gonna run away from the guy behind me, run straight at the general, and just open out my arms in an outstretched big hug, and I'm like, come here big guy, come here! And I give him a big hug, and upon touching him, I cast Banishment on him and send him to another dimension.
Orion: Nice!
Matt: All right. (all laugh)
Matt: As you move away, the duergar is going to attempt to make, as a reaction, to make an attack on you.
Sam: It's okay, it's all cool for Pike.
Matt: That's going to be a 13 versus armor class.
Sam: Does not hit.
Matt: You hear it coming, as you're walking, "buddy!" (all laugh)
Matt: Duck under a war pick.
Matt: With advantage on its saving throw. What's the DC?
Sam: DC?
Matt: The DC on your spell?
Sam: Well, if I'm doing it through my cone, it's 19.
Matt: I will say for this, you do not have it through your cone, because you had your arms open, you didn't specify, however, it still fails it's saving throw. The general, as you reach up, he has his war pick ready. Pulls back its war pick as the flames burst in. (all laugh)
Matt: Then blinks out of existence. (all cheer)
Orion: Nice move.
Ashley: One down, one down.
Sam: Oh, he's gone, oh, where did he go? I don't know.
Matt: How long does it last, by the way?
Sam: It's concentration. (all laugh)
Matt: Okay. All right.
Liam: Scanlan Shorthalt, playing Vegas, ladies and gentlemen.
Sam: Do I get a bonus?
Matt: You do get a bonus action.
Sam: Okay, I'm just going to sing a little ditty to Pike, just to give her a little inspiration. I'll just do some pelvic thrusting-- a little (guitar), that's a flute, by the way. (all laugh)
Orion: Super, play that thing.
Matt: His electric flute gives you a d8 inspiration dice, so you can add that to any attack rolls.
Liam: He can do anything with any instrument.
Ashley: Sweet licks on your flute. (all laugh)
Matt: All right, so, Keyleth.
Marisha: So, upon seeing this big thing crash in, and I'm like, oh. Now you're really angry. But I just kind of analyze him and I say okay, and then I go, (grunts), and I turn into a rhinoceros.
All: Ooh!
Matt: Okay, I don't have a rhinoceros mini on me, so we'll use a bear for the time being, but we'll know it's a rhinoceros.
Sam: Why don't you have a rhinoceros?
Matt: 'Cause I was not prepared for such things.
Liam: Way to slack off, Mercer.
Matt: Hey, I'm gonna order a rhinoceros now, you happy? I'm gonna go to Toys R Us.
Taliesin: Get the whole animal collection. Actually got them, the whole set.
Matt: So you transform into a rhinoceros, now basically facing an armored beast with an armored beast.
Marisha: Kaiju battle. (all laugh)
Matt: Whatcha got, whatcha doing?
Marisha: I'm charging him.
Travis: Activity in the Breach.
Matt: You leap down, go in for the attack, this duergar already used its reaction, so it can't attack you.
Marisha: So if he fails to save, I knock him over. That's plus seven, so 19?
Matt: 19 does hit.
Marisha: Awesome!
Matt: Does save though, is not knocked over.
Marisha: A strength save?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Aw, damn it.
Matt: This is a big creature.
Marisha: He does, I do 2d8 of bludgeoning damage.
Matt: Go for it.
Marisha: Seven, nine, 14 damage.
Matt: 14 damage, all right. You have multi attack or did you get the one hit?
Marisha: Well, I charged, yeah.
Matt: Okay yeah, so the charge is the hit. But you slam into it, your horn gores, you can see actually, you slam it into the side of the armor wound that Grog left and then Tiberius pried open. Part of it gets pulled back, and you see a quick splatter of some sort of bloody splash as you're staring to actually pull apart its interior. The horn is jabbed in there, and it manages to shrug it off at the last point. You do significant gore to its side.
Liam: Good musical riff.
Marisha: Oh, wait. No no no, that's right, keep going. It's actually 15 damage. I always forget that I have a plus one to attack.
Matt: 15? Yeah, don't forget that. You need to remember that. After taking the arrow wound, and after everyone else attacking around it, it's going to try and get a different situation. It's going to jump. It rears back, and leaps into the air.
Sam: Oh jesus.
Matt: Landing right on top of Clarota and Scanlan.
Sam: Oh no!
Ashley: Wait, does he get, do we get--
Matt: You guys all get attacks on it as it jumps away.
Marisha: We all get attacks?
Matt: Yes, you do.
Sam: Do I?
Matt: No, you do not.
Marisha: We get advantage, right?
Matt: No.
Taliesin: Did he take me, no he didn't take me.
Matt: No, actually, you are still in its hand. In its mouth, it carries you with it.
Marisha: 19.
Matt: Okay, so 19, you hit.
Liam: 24.
Matt: Hit.
Travis: 26.
Matt: Hit. No, it's the three of you, so that's it. So all of you guys just roll damage for a basic attack.
Sam: Come on, kill him before he gets to me.
Travis: 24.
Matt: 24 damage? 24 damage you said? Nice.
Travis: Yeah.
Ashley: Was I close enough to him to get an attack?
Matt: No you weren't, unfortunately.
Liam: 11.
Matt: 11, all righty, and?
Marisha: 17.
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: So, as it lands. All of you guys have to make a strength or dex saving throw, your choice. For Percy.
Taliesin: Dex.
Matt: And Scanlan, and I'm rolling for Clarota. Clarota fails.
Taliesin: 20.
Matt: It's okay, it's okay, Scanlan. It's okay, you can do this.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Taliesin: 20.
Sam: He's coming back from the other dimension. I rolled a nine.
Orion: Did it hit the floor or did you go again?
Sam: No, I used the one that rolled on the floor.
Laura: Roll it on the table, that doesn't count.
Matt: So Clarota is not prone.
Sam: Dungeon Master, does a roll on the floor count? What happened?
Matt: I usually roll on the table. I usually prefer to roll on the table.
Sam: It's even worse. (all laugh)
Liam: That'll learn ya.
Matt: You guys are knocked prone on the ground, and you all take 14 points of bludgeoning damage, plus 14 points of slashing damage. As he just lands on top of you. Yeah, so 28 points of damage, as it crushes you, and its claws sink into you. Clarota takes the same.
Liam: Did it drag Percy through the air?
Taliesin: Yes it did.
Laura: It did?
Taliesin: My arms are still stuck in its mouth.
Matt: You're not knocked prone, but you do take 14 points of crushing damage, as its mouth bites down on your arm again, for free.
Taliesin: That's fine.
Matt: It's going to actually release you, Percy. So you're there.
Marisha: Think your arm might be a bit busted.
Matt: It turns, and makes a bite attack against Scanlan.
Sam: As he does I distract him. (air horn blowing) (all laugh)
Sam: Playing my shawm.
Matt: That's the sound a shawm makes?
Sam: Cutting Words reaction.
Matt: Okay, so as your reaction, go ahead and do that, so roll the d8.
Ashley: (imitates horn)
Travis: It's like the start of a Pitbull song.
Sam: Six.
Matt: Okay, he rolled a 27. Reduced it by seven to 19. So even with the reduction, it's not enough, you're on the ground. It sinks its teeth right into you. You take, let's see.
Liam: These games keep getting better.
Matt: You take 41 points of piercing damage.
Laura: Oh my gosh.
Liam: Scanlan!
Sam: No worries, I'm just at negative 36 now. (all laugh)
Marisha: Really?
Sam: Yep.
Matt: Okay, so.
Marisha: Wait, how did that happen?
Taliesin: That happened fast.
Liam: He's unconscious, he's in bad shape, but we're gonna get him.
Matt: Scanlan's looking rough, Scanlan is now just being thrashed around in the mouth of the creature.
Travis: How many hit points do you have?
Matt: His limp arms and legs just (thumping) as it's kind of just running him around and across the air.
Liam: Hashtag save Scanlan. Strings of gnome blood are being flung across the room.
Liam: Oh, he's so little though, he's so little.
Matt: Pike, your turn.
Ashley: Okay, so time for a Cure Wounds. So I guess. Let's see.
Matt: You can't even see him right now. If you want to Cure Wounds, you have to touch him.
Ashley: I'll go, yeah, I'll go.
Sam: I'm being thrashed around.
Ashley: Can I just go, he's over there?
Laura: He's in the mouth of the thing.
Liam: She's 25 speed.
Matt: So you can move five squares.
Ashley: Okay.
Marisha: Didn't you get that speed boost?
Ashley: How close can I get to him? I can't see the lines in the squares.
Orion: Don't forget your boots, Pike.
Ashley: Oh, I have sprinter's boots! I have sprinter's boots. Okay, so I'm gonna use my sprinter's boots. I can-- While you wear these boots, you can use a bonus action, and click the boots' heels together, if you do, the boots double your walking speed for one minute.
Matt: So you can move ten squares, takes your bonus action.
Ashley: So then, I'm so sorry, I can't see the squares. So if I can get ten to get over there.
Matt: So you go one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, there is a ledge there, and he's blocking the way up, so nine, ten, make an acrobatics check to actually jump and climb up onto the--
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: With disadvantage, 'cause you have plate armor.
Liam: But what about her--
Matt: Disadvantage, you roll twice and take a lower.
Ashley: Wait, wait, hold on. Can I cast Guided Strike? Which adds ten to--
Sam: I gave you a dice. I gave you a dice.
Liam: Which means you're-- Ten.
Matt: Total of ten?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: That's exactly what you needed. (all cheer)
Matt: That was the baseline. You run up, it takes all the strength you can feel, you're gonna be sore in the morning. All your muscles tense as you pull yourself up, with all the inertia from the run, your parkour up to the top, land, Scanlan's there, currently being flung around, you manage to reach up and grab him, and get in a brief tug of war with the bulette creature.
Ashley: Hey, get away from him, man!
Matt: As you cast Cure Wounds. Go ahead and--
Ashley: So that's Mass Cure Wounds, so does that heal--
Matt: Is it Mass Cure Wounds, or just doing Cure Wounds?
Ashley: I'll just do Cure Wounds.
Matt: So at what level are you using?
Sam: Don't chintz out.
Ashley: I'm gonna use it at the highest-- I'll use it at fifth level.
Sam: Cast whatever you can cast.
Liam: It's one or multiple people.
Sam: Can you do it at a higher level?
Ashley: Yeah, I'll do it at my highest level that I can cast, which is--
Sam: Let's not cheap out on Scanlan here.
Ashley: Sorry guys, I'm just warming up again. (all laugh)
Travis: Let's not skimp on Scanlan.
Liam: Remember when I brought you back from the dead? Remember that? Remember that?
Sam: Remember when my kiss healed you from death? Just throwing that out there.
Ashley: -- which I think is eight.
Matt: So it's 5d8 + 5. 5d8 + 5 is how much you're healing him.
Liam: You're gonna be all right.
Ashley: My spell attack bonus, plus eight?
Matt: You don't have to worry about the bonus, you're just touching him.
Ashley: So 5d8 + 5.
Matt: Is what you're healing him, yes. All right.
Sam: That's three.
Liam: I think you did it four times, yeah.
Ashley: 18, plus five.
Sam: I thought that was three, no?
Ashley: Yeah, 23, 23.
Sam: Plus five.
Liam: That was plus five.
Laura: Are you still unconscious?
Sam: But now I'm only negative 11.
Ashley: Wait, what?
Sam: I've taken almost 100 points of damage in this.
Matt: You're unconscious, how it works in this, and this is different from Pathfinder-- Yeah, you go to zero and you stay there. You are now up to 23.
Liam: You don't go below zero, you hit zero, and you're there, making rolls to see if you die.
Laura: You only have three chances if you roll, fail, three times, you die.
Matt: And if something hits you while you're unconscious, it's an automatic fail. Now you're 23 hit points.
Sam: Hey, I feel great, guys! (all laugh)
Matt: You're still in its mouth being shook around.
Sam: Oh shit! (all laugh)
Sam: What is this ride? This is crazy!
Matt: Pike, that's your turn.
Ashley: I can't do anything else, right?
Matt: Clarota's going to get up.
Liam: Come on Clarota, show us what you got.
Matt: Clarota looks pretty rough. Rears back.
Liam: Got to bring that mental power and that arcane magic, let's do it.
Matt: Taking a cue from the opening you left, Clarota pulls back its hand, you see a familiar spark of bluish electrical energy as Clarota reaches for unleashing a torrent of electrical arcane energy forward, into the form of a Lightning Bolt. Blasting across the bow of this giant creature. Let's see. Does not make its saving throw, so it's 32 points of lightning damage.
Laura: Clarota!
Matt: As the back of its armor is now seared, and you can see parts of its armored flesh are kind of blackened and charred and slightly crimping. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay, so I've got enough room to run up to its anus, which I'll do.
Travis: As you always do.
Liam: It's got plenty of people around, so that means I can Sneak Attack him.
Matt: As you rush past, before you attack? This duergar that was right by you, that has currently grown to a larger size gets a free swing at you.
Liam: Ain't no thing.
Matt: That's going to be a 21 to hit.
Liam: Okay, that hits.
Matt: All right, with its war pike it takes-- deals 14 points of damage to you.
Liam: Who cares, I'm saving my gnome friend, okay. Here I go. 14, it's a 25 to hit his butt.
Matt: 25 hits.
Liam: This is my keen dagger, with vorpal blade, two plus seven is nine, that's just nine. Where's a pencil, that's a pencil. And then we add my Sneak Attack damage, which is six, seven, ten. 15. 21, plus nine, is 30.
Matt: All right, nice.
Liam: To the butt. Specifically to the butt.
Matt: As you rush up, you take a moment as it's thrashing about, and you can see what looks, anatomy-wise, to be probably where it expels whatever it eats.
Liam: The hole? Right in there.
Matt: You go ahead and just slash and eviscerate there.
Liam: How do you like me now?
Matt: Even back there it's heavily armored, it takes, you carve through, and it-- You've definitely left a lasting impression on this bulette.
Liam: Pucker up, baby, pucker up.
Sam: Hashtag, armored anus. (all laugh)
Travis: What, what, in the butt.
Liam: This is D&D in 2015, people, 2015. So that's the first attack, right? Now I get a second attack?
Matt: The general also, by the way, appears as the concentration spell was lost as you were unconscious.
Sam: I must have stopped concentrating for some reason.
Matt: However, it is right in front of, it's like. It's now in his face.
Liam: Second attack. 22.
Matt: That hits. Okay, and that's a four plus ten, ten points of fire-based damage to the butt.
Matt: All right. (all laugh)
Travis: Preparation H? Fire damage to the anus.
Matt: That brings us to his turn.
Laura: The general's?
Matt: The general's turn, who now is there from the bulette, sees it, looks over and sees you.
Travis: It's right in front of him!
Matt: Kind of sitting there with your bloody hand. It's still flaming, swings back, and goes for your head.
Taliesin: God.
Matt: That is a 23 versus armor class.
Taliesin: Ah, yeah, that's gonna hit. Armor class sucks.
Matt: Plus the fire damage.
Ashley: What are you at?
Taliesin: I'm at 39 I wanna say?
Matt: Well, you take 31 points of damage. Including the fire damage from the pike, it goes for its second attack against you.
Travis: This thing sucks.
Matt: That's gonna be a 22 versus armor class.
Taliesin: That's gonna hit.
Liam: It's a tank.
Travis: One.
Matt: You take... That's gonna be 21 points of damage.
Taliesin: I'm out. Okay, Percy being pummeled and pummeled again. Loses, your gun falls from your hand, as you slump to the ground, your eyes roll back, unconsciousness and darkness.
Sam: We're droppin' like flies!
Matt: Taking you. That brings us to--
Ashley: Everybody knows shit's fucked.
Matt: Grog.
Travis: What, me? Bah! How tall is the thing?
Matt: Tall? I'd say it's probably about... 20 feet tall? 15, 20 feet tall?
Travis: Can I climb up on its back?
Matt: It's not your size, it'd be really, really tight, pinning in there.
Travis: I would like to run up to its right side and flank it.
Matt: Over here?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: So you run around. Which you can do, 'cause you're a freaking barbarian.
Travis: (snarls)
Matt: All right, go ahead, you're making your attacks. Go for it, three strikes against it.
Travis: 21. Hits, right?
Matt: 21 definitely hits.
Travis: 16 plus eight, hits.
Matt: Definitely hits.
Travis: Natural 20! (all cheer)
Travis: Does that mean I get extra?
Liam: Double damage, it means double damage.
Travis: Oh, double damage, okay.
Matt: So first strike.
Ashley: Kill him, kill him, kill him!
Travis: 16?
Matt: 16 damage?
Travis: Yes.
Laura: 21.
Travis: 21, thank you.
Liam: Stay in school, kids.
Travis: Stay on the table.
Matt: It's the critical now, so double the dice roll.
Travis: 20, thank you, and. 15, plus that, 20.
Matt: You double the dice, then add the modifier.
Travis: Oh, double the second one.
Laura: So that's 40 on the last one.
Sam: Jesus.
Laura: So 61, 76.
Matt: How do you want to do this, Grog? (all cheer)
Ashley: Oh, you killed him?
Liam: Yes!
Matt: How you wanna do this, Grog?
Travis: I would like to chop down into the fleshy bit, and after I've sliced--
Matt: The fleshy bit is on the opposite side, by the way. So you're now at an unarmored side. However, it's still holding Scanlan in its mouth, shaking him around, so, how do you wanna finish it?
Travis: Can I get to its mouth at all?
Matt: I could say for the flavor of this, yeah, you manage to just barely make it over here.
Travis: I would like to swing through and catch the corner of its mouth, open its mouth wide, and then I'd like to reach in, and with my teeth, pull its fucking tongue out of its head, and start thrashing it side to side. (all laugh)
Matt: First you rush up with your ax, using all of the aggression, you take it and swing it, barely leaving you with a shave. You gash the side of its mouth, and draw this giant wound open. As it does, you actually snap, and cut through the tendons that clench the jaw, causing it to fall open and slack. Scanlan spills out of its mouth, hitting the ground with a dull thud. As its mouth is now open, it kind of rears back. You shake your head angrily, as the froth is gathering at the corners of your mouth. You drop your ax from one hand, grab the jaw, reach in, bite down on its giant meaty tongue. Using your hand at the back of it, you pull and yank and you feel the muscle tearing and tensing before, eventually it comes free, and is now dangling about 25, 30 pounds, of very very wet, tongue meat. With your third attack, how do you finish it? (all laugh)
Travis: What do you after you're biting its tongue in your mouth?
Matt: That's what I'm asking.
Travis: That's a good point.
Matt: It's looking really rough, but you still need to get that final death blow. What are you doing with this, Grog?
Ashley: Rip him apart.
Travis: Yeah, I'm gonna King Kong his jaw. I'm gonna take the broken part, the top of his head, and just pull apart.
Matt: Okay, so you drop your ax entirely, the tongue still dangling from your mouth. You reach and put one foot up into the bottom of the jaw, using your other hands you push and push, you hear it crack, and pull, as it tenses and is trying to push down. It has no tension because the jaw was destroyed. You pull back and hear a sickening snap, as the armor plate buckles underneath where the neck joint would be on such a creature. Its eyes kinda roll back for a second, and it begins to slacken. As it does, you reach up with your fist, and penetrate the bottom of where its brain would be. With a sickening (suction) sound, it goes entirely limp and collapses on the ground.
Liam: And that's why you're on the team. (all cheer)
Travis: And as it falls, the tongue that's hanging in my mouth, I look to one of the dwarves that's left, I go, who's next? (all laugh)
Matt: We're gonna end it there for the night. (all groan)
Matt: Damn guys, well done.
Taliesin: I'm sleeping.
Sam: Oh, Percy's dead, hashtag save Percy.
Laura: I want more chicken.
Matt: Before we finish, I'd say go ahead and throw a heal up on him.
Marisha: Oh yeah.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Ashley: Good plan.
Matt: It's nasty, man. You guys picked that, by the way.
Laura: Oh seriously?
Travis: They did? You dicks!
Taliesin: You suck.
Zac: That was the chat room.
Orion: Try harder next time.
Matt: We'll be doing more of those as time goes on. Not all the time, but whenever I have the opportunity to put it in there, I'm gonna start asking for you guys to help me figure out what to throw at these adventurers.
Liam: You sadists. (all laugh)
Zac: We shouldn't tell them the other options, should we, just in case we wanna save them.
Matt: Oh no, they'll come back in, don't worry.
Ashley: 25.
Taliesin: Oh wow, I feel much better.
Zac: So you guys, we're gonna be doing a Q and A.
Matt: Yeah, for anyone who wants to stay over.
Zac: Anyone who wants to stick around, the audience has a ton of questions for you guys. For the audience, it's a sub-only Q and A, so if you're been wondering whether or not you should sub, let me give you some reasons why. Number one, you can ask these guys questions in a little bit. Number two, every 50 subs, we're giving away tabletop promo kits that are like $250 worth of special stuff, and we will ship that internationally, doesn't matter. Even in Antarctica. We want someone in Antarctica to do tabletop day, do you know anyone?
Matt: I don't.
Zac: We had someone last year.
Matt: Well shit, we gotta reach out then.
Zac: They're gone, they were like the only people there, and they're gone.
Matt: There's nobody there left, they were the last bastion. Well, somebody needs to move to Antarctica in the next few days and let us know, so then we can totally use that.
Zac: We also do a Minecraft server, for subs only, but if you want in on that, there's no automated message for that server info, so just make sure and message the Geek & Sundry account, and we'll get you that sub IP address for the Minecraft server. I know we have more, there's lots more stuff. We do some other sub-only chats throughout the week. lots of emotes, other fun stuff. But we're gonna go ahead and roll some videos while we get set up for the Q and A. This was a lot of fun, oh! I would like to challenge you guys to do a quick little donation drive for the charity that you guys support.
Matt: Yeah, for 826LA. Had it going up in the chat room, if you have the opportunity, you wanna help support these children getting side educations and tutoring.
Zac: You guys wanna tell them about, just to get them psyched up for it? 'Cause we can get that command going.
Marisha: Yeah, 826LA, they're a non-profit organization that helps primarily with literacy and creative story children for children between the ages of like five and 18. They have a really great young authors book that you can buy that's a collection of all of the kids' book, and you can also go and check out the time travel mart, there's one in Echo Park and then there's also one in Marina Del Rey. But you should just google 826, 'cause I know there's one in Seattle, I know there's one in like Atlanta. New York, San Francisco. There might be an 826 in your city.
Liam: 826LA probably, right?
Marisha: 826LA is who we're raising money for. But yeah all of the 826 store fronts are a little bit different, depending on where you go. They're super cool.
Matt: Guys, please, check it out, it's awesome. It's a good group of people, what they do is fantastic. If you have the opportunity please do, go ahead and donate to the charity.
Matt: Well, thank you guys so much for tuning in for the fourth episode of Critical Role, with the grand return of Pike, our cleric. (all laugh)
Matt: Necessary. Glad to have you back, I'm sure everyone here is glad to have the healer back.
Laura: Especially today.
Taliesin: Very happy today.
Matt: And a surprise return of Laura, so.
Laura: What a time to join the game.
Matt: Heck yeah. All right guys, well, we're gonna take a little bit to set up for the Q and A. Those who can stay, feel free to, those who can't, totally understand. We have kids and families to get to. Those who can will be here for the Q and A for the next hour or so.
Zac: One more thing, just so they know we're following through. We have the picture for you guys to sign. So Niareth won this, when we reached 1,000 subs, so I think Pike is all that's left for that.
Matt: Pike is left to sign this Player's Handbook.
Sam: I haven't signed it.
Zac: And then we've got the picture. So we'll pass that around while we're doing the set up.
Matt: Do any of you have the gold marker?
Zac: I'll find it.
Matt: All right, cool. Yeah guys we're gonna go ahead and set up for this, we'll see you in a little bit for the Q and A, thank you everyone for watching. Thanks guys. Awesome day at Critical Role, thanks.
Ashley: Bye!
Wil: Hey nerds, I'm Wil Wheaton, I know right? And guess what? It is back. International Tabletop Day has returned, this year on April 11th. What is that, you say? What is Tabletop Day? Well, if you don't know, then shame on you. International Tabletop Day is a worldwide celebration dedicated to the tabletop games we love to play with the people we love. People we like, people we've never even met before, it doesn't matter, last year we had over 3,000 registered events across seven continents and over 80 countries, that is amazing! But this year we're going to make it even bigger. "Will Wheaton, how can we make it even bigger than last year?" That's what she said. Start now. Trend #TabletopDay on Twitter, because that was awesome. Broadcast your plans on the internet, make a video, share pictures, start a blog, create a dating profile for other sexy gamers in your area, whatever you want. Celebrate it in your own way, but we wanna hear from you. Be sure to use #TabletopDay, or @TabletopDay to let us know. It is up to you, world. Visit TabletopDay.com to register your event, or find one near you. You can also download exclusive content and check out some of our favorite games. We will be streaming our own live event, here in Los Angeles for you to watch. And there will be more on that soon. You love tabletop games, and we love you, so join us in the global celebration, on April 11th. Play more games. Hey everybody, I'm Wil Wheaton, and I am coming to you semi-live from the Twitch TV set here at the Geek & Sundry stages in beautiful downtown Burbank, California. I am here to tell you everything you ever wanted to know about Tabletop's RPG show, coming this June, but were afraid to ask. Or have been asking for close to a year and I've been saying, "We'll tell you at some point in the future." You can consider this the big announcement. It was incredibly difficult to cast this show. We needed people who were very comfortable improvising, who had experience playing role playing games, and who were available when we planned to shoot the show. It was surprisingly difficult to get a pool of people who fit all of those criteria, and choose the most awesome among them. So your cast playing in this wonderful show are: Yuri Lowenthal, Laura Bailey, Hank Green, and Alison Haislip. I'm really excited to have these people all together. They're all my friends, they are all wonderful storytellers, and they are going to be a tremendous party of adventurers. I'm only gonna try to kill them a little bit. The most frequently asked question since I announced that there was going to be a Tabletop RPG show is, hey Wil Wheaton! Why are you so awesome? The second most frequently asked question is, what system are you using to power this game? First and foremost, I needed a system that was going to support the way I play roleplaying games, and that is telling a story collaboratively with a group of players with me as the GM. I looked at some very well known systems like Dungeons & Dragons, and Savage Worlds, I looked at systems that I love, like Fate Core, and I even looked at the True 20, a d20 modern system. And I really wanted to use something that was released by an independent publisher. I wanted to bring something to the forefront of the roleplaying world that maybe not as many people are familiar with as I want them to be. But I wanna play the way that I played when I was falling in love with roleplaying games when I was a kid. I wanna be able to sit around on a couch and some chairs with my friends, not have to worry about a map on a table in front of us, and just work together to use our imaginations to tell a story. But there's a system that I really love that's elegant, it's easy to learn, it's easy to teach, it's very easy to understand, and it really just gets out of the way when you want to tell a story together. And that is the Adventure Game Engine that Green Ronin Publishing used to drive the Dragon Age tabletop roleplaying game. I asked the developer three years ago to please make generic, so that we can build a setting and put on top of it. They said actually this is something we really wanna do. And it's come together. We have been able to work together with Green Ronin to develop the fantasy Adventure Game Engine. This is gonna take a lot of the things you know from the Dragon Age RPG, and put it all together to support our world, which I have had the best time creating. I sat down three months ago with some amazing writers, and just started brainstorming about what kind of world we wanted to explore. But what I kept coming back to is, I love science fiction, and I love fantasy. Why not put them together? Why not build a world that is inspired by the 1978 Heavy Metal movie, and 1980's amazing Saturday morning cartoon show, Thundarr the Barbarian. I thought it would be great for characters to encounter goblinoid kind of creatures, and instead of them using crossbows, they're using laser rifles. I've got it all worked out, we have a huge team of writers that put all this together that built an amazing codex that gave terrific logic to all of these decisions that we made. We're not gonna tell you what they are. You may discover some of them during the course of the season. So what is the name of this incredible world? The title of our show is Titansgrave: The Ashes of Valkana. You can sort of come up with your own ideas about what those words mean. I know, but I'm not telling. 'Cause that's not how the Wheaton talks. Titansgrave: The Ashes of Valkana will premiere right here at Geekandsundry.com on June 2nd. For those of you not in America, Titansgrave: The Ashes of Valkana will premiere right here on Geek & Sundry on two June. So I hope that you're as excited about this as I am, and I hope that you will tune in, and then watch us for ten straight weeks of incredible high adventure story telling, and until then, play more games.
Ivan: Hey guys, Ivan here, the host of Game the Game, on Geek & Sundry's new Twitch channel. I'm here with Becca, Ify, and Hector, to get you excited about International Tabletop Day. So International Tabletop Day is going to be on April 11th, and all of our friends at AEG have brought us an amazing edition of Love Letter in order to play with you today. That's right nerds. It's Batman Love Letter. Now Batman Love Letter is a game of logic, deduction, and risk, in which you try to capture or hold the highest value card in your hand by the end of the rounds. In the meantime we'll all be playing cards in order to eliminate each other. But whoever has the highest-value card at the end of the round will win a token. So who will be the greatest detective in all of Gotham? It's gonna be Batman.
Becca: Oh, no, no, no, no, no, it'll be Poison Ivy.
Ify: You guys both are wrong, it's going to be Bane.
Hector: It's probably not gonna be Robin. (all laugh)
Ivan: Now, normally we will play until seven tokens, but for the purposes of this video, we'll play until three. Whoever gets three is gonna win. Let's play. Pass out your cards Becca, one to each.
Becca: Burn the first?
Ivan: Burn the first. You have to burn a card before you even begin, because there is a mystery card that isn't in play normally. So keep that in mind when you're playing.
Hector: Burning a card, who are we playing with? The Batman villain Firefly? (all laugh)
Ify: Leave the jokes to me, Robin.
Hector: All right, fine.
Ify: Just so you know, I'm doing a set at the comedy store, and I need three friends to show up.
Hector: What night is it? I'm busy that night.
Ify: I didn't even give you the time yet.
Ivan: Hector, why don't you go first?
Hector: Robin.
Ivan: Robin, the man wonder.
Hector: Okay, here we go. I'm gonna play Robin. I've got protection for my entire next round.
Ivan: Right. So every single time you play a card, normally it has an action that is attached to it. So I'm playing Catwoman, who allows me to look at another player's hand. Poison Ivy? Noted. Now it's your turn.
Becca: It's my turn, so I draw a card. I'm gonna hang on to that one, maybe. And I also play Catwoman. And I'm going to look at Bane's hand. That's terrible.
Ify: You make fun of me but you lack the understanding of my strategy. I will play the Batman. I can't guess Robin's because he has immunity, but I can guess Poison Ivy's.
Ivan: If he can guess correctly, not only does he get a token, but she's eliminated from the round, and now there's only three of us available. So it's one step closer to victory. What's your guess?
Ify: My guess is Two-Face.
Becca: Incorrect.
Ivan: Robin?
Hector: Thanks, Batman. All right, here we go. I'm also gonna play Batman. I'm gonna guess that Poison Ivy has the Joker card.
Becca: Incorrect.
Hector: Darn it. Jiminey Jillickers.
Becca: Now you have to do something terribly embarrassing, right? Or is that just Half Scrolls?
Hector: Like maybe wear a Robin costume, cool, sounds good. Oh, already doing it, great. So great.
Ivan: I have two cards and I'm going to also play the Batman. You've been picked on a lot, Poison Ivy.
Becca: I've been picked on so much.
Ivan: You played a Batman.
Hector: Get him Batman.
Ivan: I'm gonna guess you've got a Poison Ivy.
Ify: You're wrong!
Ivan: (groans)
Ify: No survivors!
Ivan: (laughs) All right, I'm done, go ahead, Poison Ivy.
Becca: If anyone's wondering why so many Batman cards are being drawn, it's because there are five in the deck. There's either one or two of all the other characters. So I draw, and I will play, myself, Poison Ivy. This card says, choose any player including yourself to discard his or her hand, and draw a new card. Ivan, you look pretty confident. Discard.
Ivan: Discard, all right.
Becca: And draw a new hand.
Ivan: Had a Two-Face.
Ify: It's time for me to draw.
Ivan: I have a hard time thinking that we're gonna get anything out of you in that mask.
Ify: Oh, you'll see.
Becca: I'm sorry, what?
Ify: You'll see.
Becca: What did he say?
Ivan: I think it's something about seals?
Becca: Did you need help opening a seal?
Ify: I'll play the Batman, and I will guess Becca again, she has the Harley Quinn.
Becca: Incorrect.
Hector: Geez, we're terrible at this game.
Ivan: We're really, really bad.
Becca: I'm great at it.
Ify: Sooner or later.
Ivan: He's in there, or he's there. Not there, there. Not there, there.
Becca: There?
Ivan: There.
Becca: Where?
Hector: I'm going to play my own version of Bane. That was terrible.
Becca: You don't have the mask.
Hector: Myself and another player can secretly compare hands, and whichever hand is lowest is out. So I'm gunning for you, Poison Ivy. Because you kissed me that one time, and then you didn't wanna hang out with me afterwards, like that was really mean, so.
Becca: I had ulterior motives.
Ivan: I'm not looking, Batman's not looking.
Becca: I'm out of the game.
Hector: You're out, yes!
Becca: I had myself again.
Ivan: Which means you have a higher numbered card.
Hector: Yes, that is correct.
Ivan: Higher than five.
Hector: Good detective work, Batman. Real genius, this one.
Ivan: All right. This is the last card of the deck, which means after this, whoever has the highest card, wins.
Hector: Duh, Batman, we know, God.
Ivan: I'm playing Robin, Robin. All right?
Becca: That makes me think he has the Joker.
Ivan: Well, we'll find out won't we? What do you got?
Ify: I had myself.
Hector: Boom, Harley Quinn beats Bane.
Ivan: And the Joker beats Harley Quinn.
Hector: Darn it.
Ivan: I got you, Joker.
Becca: Take your token.
Ivan: I will take my narcissistic token that has my symbol on it.
Hector: This is just what Batman needed, an ego boost. Batman needed an ego boost, great.
Ify: Robin.
Becca: The deb chef, the deb chef.
Hector: You seem to live with a multi billionaire, yet can't afford contacts. What's the deal with that?
Becca: No burn card, no burn card.
Ivan: Oh, great. So since I won the last round, I get to play first, because I am the greatest detective. And I got a Catwoman, which means I think I'm interested in Bane's hand. Whatcha got, Bane? You got crap, is what he's got.
Becca: Choose any player including yourself to discard his or her hand and draw a new card. Hector, burn your card.
Hector: You got it, but it's Robin, and I'm not gonna tell you again. All right, I had Batman, which is cool, because he's the least value card in the game, so that's just gonna help me out, so I'm just gonna grab a new card.
Ify: All right, I'm going to draw. Draw a card. Oof, oof, oof, such a good card.
Ivan: Who are you gonna use it on, Bane?
Becca: It's probably Batman.
Ify: I'm gonna do a Batman card. Robin, do you have Poison Ivy?
Hector: (laughs) No.
Ify: My turn is over.
Hector: All right, it's my turn. Dick Grayson and Jason Todd, Tim Drake, Stephanie Brown, Carrie Kelley, John Blake, help me. Okay, here we go. My girl Selina Kyle, Catwoman, bam. And I wanna look at Bane's hand. Show me back here buddy, show me back here, whatcha got?
Ify: Got this.
Hector: Okay, good to know.
Ivan: All right. I'm going to just play my ward Robin.
Hector: You're welcome.
Ivan: Grant me immunity.
Becca: Batman. I'm gonna guess that Bane has Poison Ivy.
Ify: You're wrong!
Becca: You'll never have Poison Ivy.
Ify: I'll use Catwoman.
Becca: To look at another player's hands.
Hector: Pause for error.
Ify: I will look at Poison Ivy's hand.
Hector: Don't do it Bane, don't fall into that venus fly trap. Get it, 'cause it's a trap, 'cause it's. It's a plant based pun.
Ivan: Good job.
Ify: Ah.
Ivan: There it is.
Ify: Ah. Ah!
Ivan: Robin, Robin go ahead.
Hector: Okay, here we go.
Ivan: What's it gonna be?
Hector: I'm gonna play Batman. And I'm gonna guess that Bane Has a Batman card.
Ify: You are wrong.
Ivan: For once he doesn't have a Batman card.
Ify: I want to point out to the watchers. Hector looked at my hand.
Hector: Oh I did, that's true.
Ify: And saw me play the card. He knew exactly which card was in my hand. And chose the wrong card.
Ivan: This is why you're the boy wonder, and not Batman.
Hector: I'd like to point out, that my chest has made me very uncomfortable, and I'm clearly out of my element, and dressing me up as Robin was a good call everybody, good call everyone. Good call guys. Wow.
Ify: I really thought that was game over for me. I was wrong.
Hector: Oh my God. Your annoying voice has really gotten into my head.
Becca: That's his greatest power.
Ivan: I also have the Batman. So we know he doesn't have a Batman, you know what it is. Thanks Robin. Useless. So I'm gonna guess that Bane has Harley Quinn.
Ify: You are wrong!
Ivan: Damn. I tried. All the clues are there, just one missing element.
Becca: I played Batman, I'm going to guess that Bane has Two-Face.
Ify: You are wrong as well.
Ivan: He has the Joker then, or something. How can you throw that many Batmans at a single man, and not get what he's got in his hand.
Hector: He really did break you, he really did. And now I'm Nightwing, great, that's how long that took.
Ify: I'm going to say. Two-Face can trade hands with Becca.
Becca: (sighs)
Ivan: That's where it was. Robin?
Hector: It's my turn.
Ivan: Diddly fingers.
Hector: You guys think you're gonna win this? You don't know Dick. Greyson, because that's my real name. I'm gonna play Bane.
Becca: Bane-in it up.
Ivan: What's up, who's gonna compare?
Hector: It's gonna be you, Batman. Let's see what you got, old chum. Oh hoh, bye, you're out. (laughs)
Ivan: Batman card, so. Batman's out.
Becca: Batman's the worst.
Hector: Oh my gosh.
Ivan: How's it feel to knock a man down from his tower?
Hector: It feels great.
Ivan: Right, okay.
Hector: How's it feel for not giving me--
Marisha: Great for my back.
Zac: We're live.
Matt: What's up everyone, we got this camera right here in the middle, right?
Ashley: Hello.
Liam: Oh, hi.
Matt: Thank you guys for watching. Hope you enjoyed yourselves. These guys all being crazy players, and kicking ass, and occasionally getting knocked unconscious, and nearly eaten.
Zac: Any mods want to put this in sub mode for us? Let's do sub mode.
Marisha: So you have to sub. Bye everybody who's not a sub.
Ashley: Bye!
Zac: They can still watch, they just can't ask questions.
Orion: Oh. Okay.
Marisha: Well, your word is not important.
Liam: Laura had to bugger out.
Ashley: Wait, is that a little icon of you?
Matt: Yeah.
Ashley: What?
Orion: Yeah, he's an emoji now.
Ashley: You're an emoji?
Matt: It's weird.
Taliesin: He's made it.
Ashley: You've made it.
Matt: All right, so how are we doing the questions? Are we just picking as we go?
Zac: You can moderate yourselves.
Ashley: Laura and Sam did leave.
Matt: Unfortunately.
Ashley: Laura had to go to a thing, and Sam had to go to a thing.
Matt: Sam's thing is kids. Sam has two kids. Liam has two kids, but he--
Ashley: Hey look at-- (all laugh)
Matt: I am so sorry, everyone.
Liam: I mean he's pretty good at Dungeon Mastering, right?
Ashley: Yeah, he's pretty good.
Orion: Someone asked what alignment we are. First question, what alignment are our characters?
Marisha: We're all good.
Liam: Chaotic good.
Ashley: Chaotic good.
Orion: Tiberius is chaotic good.
Travis: Chaotic neutral, bitches.
Liam: What was your first roleplaying experience? I saw that go through.
Taliesin: GURPS in high school.
All: GURPS.
Matt: The second edition of Dungeons & Dragons in high school.
Travis: This.
Ashley: Was my first, yeah.
Liam: This guy just started. I did AD&D in high school, and I DM'ed while playing, which is totally cheating. This is the first pure experience I've had.
Orion: This is my first campaign also. I was a Magic the Gathering fan.
Marisha: I actually had Matt as my first DM, way before All this started. So I played a few other games, and then, now I'm back to the OG master.
Liam: I saw, when and how did you all start playing together? The reason this started is because, I directed Matt as Leon Kennedy in Resident Evil 6, and every time he came in he would say, "hey, you know, I'm running a game, you can come in and just do a one off." And I was like, "oh, I got babies, I can't do that, I can't do that, I can't do that." And then finally once for my birthday I thought, I can do a one off, it'll be the only time we'll do it, just see how it goes. Scanlan and I did a podcast together, and every week we would do some new thing, and we're like fuck it, let's play D&D. We all did it and everybody got snake bit, and it's been the best thing that ever happened. To me at least.
Ashley: Yup.
Orion: Our character alignments do matter on how we play the characters, an earlier question.
Matt: Yeah, they do definitely matter. A couple quick answers here. The conversion from Pathfinder to Fifth Edition was decided because, as we're going on to this show, and we had so many players, combat tends to get bogged down, and a lot of floating modifiers in Pathfinder. For large groups like this it's difficult to keep it flowing and moving. I felt once I had taken a look at Fifth Edition, that the combat system was a little more simplified, and a little easier to make freeform and just roll with it. So that was a much better decision. Plus Dungeons & Dragons generally has a better name recognition than Pathfinder, so when you're putting a show out there, it's probably easier to do with very minimal transition, it took a little bit of customizing, like for Percy's gunslinger. We just had to customize it, we made it ourselves. We sat down.
Taliesin: Took a day.
Matt: Took a day, and we worked out, some of the stuff we wanted to keep, some of the things that didn't break it, we wanted to make it interesting. It is a martial archetype for the fighter class. So it does give the bonus a fighter class does. Nothing is too overpowered about it, other than just having custom weapons, and some cool grit-based abilities that we kinda transferred over from Pathfinder. It's interesting. It's a good challenge to see how it works out.
Taliesin: It is, it's working out. I'm digging it. I keep reading and finding things I'm not doing that could be more interesting, so.
Matt: Keeping your hand and firing into the mouth of a bulette is fun.
Taliesin: That felt great.
Liam: Travis, everybody's asking about your shirt.
Travis: Oh. I think it's a website called redbubble.com? I just googled Grog, and there was that.
Taliesin: Just google Grog.
Travis: I needed it right away. Right, right.
Liam: I'm also seeing, why did we switch from Pathfinder to Fifth Edition?
Matt: I answered that a second ago.
Liam: Oh, you did?
Matt: Yeah, the idea being that the reason we switched was it was easier for large-scale combat, and the system was a little more simplified, and I felt for such a large party it'd be easier to do. Plus character creation for any guests we have in the future, so that was the main reason. I love Pathfinder, but at this size, it's good. Answering your earlier question too, I saw someone ask, a good party size. Legitimately, my preference is between four and six players. This works because they're amazing players, and because we keep it very freeform, and not getting bogged down in minutia too often. The four to six players I think is a good sweet spot.
Marisha: I see, does Keyleth have limitations on what animals she can transform into? Yeah, for the most part I can only transform into beasts and I have to be under a certain challenge rating. So right now, at my level, I can only turn into beasts that are a challenge reading of three or lower.
Matt: A third of your druid level, right?
Marisha: Yeah, a third of my druid level which is nine right now. But for the most part I can change into almost anything as long as it's under a challenge rating of three.
Matt: Pike, how do you feel about Scanlan? Do you return his affections?
Ashley: Oh, well. I'm on the fence about him. He's really pretty great, but I don't know. I'm not really sold yet.
Marisha: You know Pike, I feel like we haven't actually girl talked about this.
Ashley: I know, we never girl talked about it.
Marisha: We should.
Ashley: I know, we should talk. I just, I really like him, I think he's really funny. I really the fact that he's a musician, but.
Marisha: That's hot.
Ashley: I don't know, I'm not really sold on him yet.
Marisha: I'm just concerned if he could treat you well.
Ashley: Oh no, you know what?
Marisha: He's got bad habits.
Ashley: He likes to frequent brothels and things like that, which, you know. I'd wanna give him his freedom and his space. I don't know if I'm into it.
Taliesin: If I say it so you can understand it, what's the point?
Liam: Someone's asking if we like presents. I think we'd all like fan art.
Matt: Fan art's awesome, we love it.
Liam: Immortalize our shitheadedness, that'd be good.
Marisha: Oh, it's true.
Ashley: Another couple people on there were asking about my ears. And I really like supporting small businesses. And there's a store on Etsy called Tiny Tangerines, and she makes these by hand. And makes like deer, and bears, she makes a ton of stuff.
Matt: That's really cute.
Ashley: Check her out.
Liam: We still got that little one. Socrates asked what was a favorite moment before we started streaming the show? Our first game was pretty amazing.
Marisha: Our first game was great, I've got some good memories from that one.
Liam: Most of us, I was giggling uncontrollably, I couldn't believe we were doing it. And just watching my friends, who I work with all the time, just dropping into character, there was no like, oh, let's see, what will I do, what am I doing? I will move, I will roll. Like Bailey, Bailey dropped into character from the get-go, and was a ringer. But the moment I was thinking of was when Pike died. Pike died.
Matt: Like died died.
Liam: Shortly before we switched from private to public. It was emotional. A couple people started crying, I teared up. We put two and a half years into this, and we're all very connected to it. I'm not gonna get into it, but I've had a hard couple of years personally, everything's fine, but this was like therapy for me. And to see one of my friends go down?
Ashley: It was sad.
Liam: It was fucking emotional.
Marisha: I don't think a few people were crying, I think everyone was crying.
Orion: I was crying.
Ashley: I was definitely crying. I was like, "no, I love doing this so much!" I don't wanna, I mean, when you spend that much time with people, over two and a half years, you get so attached, and attached to characters.
Marisha: We know these characters almost as well as we know each other now.
Matt: Factoids, the tower you made for us in Minecraft is awesome. Seriously, well done, look at the pictures, it's great, we're gonna have to actually go through it.
Marisha: Wait, we have a tower?
Matt: A guy built an entire tower for the group.
Ashley: No way!
Marisha: They built a castle Greyskull?
Matt: Essentially, on the Geek & Sundry Minecraft server. No. Wait no I did see that! It was huge.
Zac: It towers over the entire --
Liam: Of what?
Matt: Of him! Someone made a sculpture of--. Did you make that or somebody else? You made that?
Zac: Oh no.
Matt: Okay, somebody else made it for you.
Liam: Do we have $50 in the budget to go on eBay and get a Castle of Greyskull set? Put it on the set somewhere? Let's do that.
Matt: There we go. I see a couple quick questions.
Orion: To answer your question, there is an origin of Tiberius, fully written. I won't say it all right now, but he comes from a political family, and there's a whole bunch of layers to him. He is a thought-out character. The buffoonery is half-planned.
Marisha: I mean, we're all really deep, thought out characters.
Orion: Well, they asked if I actually thought out a story for him. He does have a thing for this character named Allura.
Matt: Yeah, Arcanist Allura, the one that actually sent them on this mission, he has kind of a thing for.
Orion: She's super awesome. Hot, I think she's hot.
Matt: She's pretty hot.
Ashley: Super hot.
Matt: The gunslinger class info, I actually posted on Twitter a few days ago, it's in my dropbox if you look through my Twitter. It's on there, otherwise, we'll probably put it up on the website, when all the website stuff is up there. I'm happy to release it now. It's pretty balanced, it's fun. Might have some tweaks down the road, depending on how things play out. You should go to my Twitter, you'll find it there.
Travis: We're gonna have a website with all our characters.
Liam: Yeah, we're working towards that.
Matt: Working on it, yeah. Like a lot of things right now, it's a work in progress.
Liam: Someone asked what kind of food would everyone like?
Orion: Ooh, like Thai food.
Liam: I like Indian.
Matt: Ooh, Indian is good.
Ashley: I really noticed--
Zac: Let them know not to order food.
Liam: Don't, that's a terrible idea.
Orion: We just had a bunch of chicken.
Marisha: Oh you mean like right now? Yeah, don't do it right now.
Zac: If you tell them what you want, all of a sudden I'll get a call, like, "your food is on the way!"
Marisha: Yeah, no, not right now, maybe next week.
Travis: Matt, you're going to Wizard World in Philly. But we will not be joining because we don't own a private fucking plane.
Marisha: But I'll be there. Is anybody else gonna be there?
Travis: Oh really?
Marisha: We'll be there.
Liam: Somebody asked something, like, what do we hope is the result of this show? I can't remember the wording. Obviously we're doing this because we love each other and we're having fun together, but I also hope, D&D has been, its entire history has been like, "oh, it's this weird thing that guys do with dice in a room." Anyone can do this, I love video games, I work in video games, but D&D has changed my life. It is social, it is person to person, it is real, because it's people in a room doing shit together, and that's kind of lacking a little bit in our world, and I would say find some friends. I mean, I love that there are sort of online tools to play with people across the country, but if you can find three or four people in your town to do this, I'd say do it. Do it.
Travis: Yeah, do it.
Marisha: There's something really amazing about the fact that we're all essentially kind of building and communally developing a story together, and that's something that not a whole lot of things can grant you, and we don't really get in today's society much. We're all kinda creating this as a thing. And I think it's good that we're like, hey, this is socially acceptable. D&D's cool, everyone should play D&D.
Matt: Actually, the IT Crowd episode of D&D is one of the best on camera examples of a D&D game night thing.
Orion: That is an awesome episode.
Matt: Fucking hilarious, and a great, truncated version of this is kinda what the game is. So good on you.
Orion: Cut to them weeping.
Taliesin: So many questions going so quickly.
Matt: I know.
Ashley: I want a Grog shirt that says "do it."
Taliesin: And the kitty shirts were an accident. This was not planned.
Marisha: Oh yeah, our kitty shirts.
Liam: Someone's saying what edition to start with? I would start with the most recent, because you know they're gonna keep updating it over the years.
Matt: Fifth is great, Fifth is a great entry point.
Liam: It's really loose. I feel like all of us felt like, we were doing Pathfinder, and... Fucking loved it, otherwise we wouldn't be doing it, but it was really intricate, and we were doing it every six or seven weeks, when we were off-air, so. We felt like the rules were really complicated and we'd lose track of it. We loved doing it, obviously, but Fifth Edition is really fast and loose. I recommend that. And Travis just stuck his finger in my ear, he kinda does that. He hits me in the nads a lot.
Matt: This is a homebrew campaign. I wrote it all just kind of for the hell of it. Custom, don't really base it on anything existing. I feel like I'm playing more in that world, and I always hate the idea of, in the middle of DMing, having to go to a module, or having to look for a rule that wasn't my own. It feels more detached. There are modules that are great, and I've run great modules, but for me personally, with the pacing, and the flow of the game, I prefer to do homebrew.
Liam: Connected to that, someone asked, if you had any tips, and I'd like to know the answer to this too, because I'm running a game for my eight-year-old son and his friends who are about to start, do you have any tips for new DM's?
Matt: Yes. Let's see. I could do a whole panel on that. Tips for new DMs. Preparation is important. You wanna outline cities, come up with ideas for NPCs, that you think would be essential to a story, or like people that really run elements of the town. Simple notes can be like, they're this race, this is their disposition, if you have a particular voice you wanna try for, make a note of this kind of voice. So whenever you come back to them you have a reminder. And spend a lot of time building that structure, you don't have to be too detailed. Always leave room to play in the world, because you never know what your players are gonna do. Be prepared to improv. I prefer loose preparation, and then just kinda rolling where the players take you.
Liam: Although you wrote a monologue for Clarence, right? Because that was very intricate. We were all just ready--
Ashley: Yeah, there's no way you just thought that up.
Matt: There are certain elements, part of the notes I take is for certain NPCs I'll write down key information that they know, and depending on how you ask them, what you say to them, and what you try and extract from them, they might give you some of the information, they might not, if you coerce them, or intimidate them. Or if they're willing to give up the information, I have all that written down. So for that information today, you guys were asking him, and since you allied with Clarence, he was willing to discuss with you. So I had all that prewritten, but depending on how much you said, it was what you guys asked.
Liam: Do you have random encounters ready, in case we're like, "ah, fuck it, I don't wanna go down to the dungeon, I wanna go back up and beat up some dwarves." Do you have shit kind of ready?
Matt: Yep. I have a stack of different creature and encounters already prebuilt, based on what you guys may encounter. Tonight was an example of players being able to pick what happened. But also it's one of those things where it depended, I don't know where you guys are gonna go. I present a story, I present an idea of a general throughline, but how you guys go from point A to point B, that's entirely up to you. Sometimes that can be a very long, meandering line, sometimes it could be a direct ray, so.
Travis: There was a question, how much do you improvise, and when is it appropriate to improvise?
Matt: A lot, and always.
Marisha: Always, yeah.
Travis: The answer is yes.
Matt: I've had whole games where I've prepared a session, and none of it happened, because people just put an entirely wrong direction. Not wrong, but a different direction. So the whole game was just me pulling everything out of my ass.
Marisha: Like that time we walked through the back door of the Thieves' Guild, that was fun.
Matt: Yeah, there was that.
Marisha: What's up, Thieves' Guild. 'Sup.
Orion: Donkey Kong, Pikachu.
Travis: What?
Orion: Somebody asked me what my favorite Smash Brothers character is.
Travis: Oh.
Liam: Somebody asked how we pick the character class that we picked. When we first started this game, and I said, "hey, it's my birthday, I wanna play a game." Laura really likes rogues as well, but I made sure that as fast as I fucking could.
Travis: She was pissed.
Liam: So she, yeah. She plays rogue, in like Dragon Age and everything. That shit's a favorite class of hers, so I know I got it out there. Also, the reason that we're twins is because Laura and I have the exact same birthday, May 28th.
Ashley: I didn't know that.
Marisha: I didn't know that either.
Liam: That's why we're twins.
Marisha: That's cool.
Ashley: I knew-- I came in late to the game, and there were only a couple options left. And I had never played, so. I picked gnome because I was like, oh, that's funny. And then cleric, I didn't really realize what a cleric was. And how detailed it can be if you've never played. And important to the game. So when I started I was like, well shit, this is a little tougher than I thought it would be. But it's been awesome, I love being a cleric.
Liam: I'm so glad we pulled you in.
Ashley: Me too, man, me too. Oh, also, someone asked, who is Pike's deity. And it's Sarenrae, the goddess of healing and redemption, among other things.
Matt: Which is carried over actually from Pathfinder. Fifth Edition has its own suggested, there's never a definitive pantheon. But they have the deity pantheon. But we're carrying over Pathfinder deities that were prominently in the campaign up to this certain point, because why the hell not? We're not gonna make her change her deity, that would be weird.
Marisha: Travis, how did you pick your character?
Travis: What? Oh. I asked what the biggest playable character was, I think. One that liked to fight, drink, and fight.
Liam: One of the greatest pleasures for me, and I'm obviously a huge nerdlinger, and this is just me reliving high school. When I was talking to Sam about starting all this, and saying hey, let's get together, it's what I wanna do for my birthday, we pulled Travis in, Travis is fucking tight, look at him. He's not the stereotypical D&D player, and he was as snake bitten as the rest of us. Play Dungeons & Dragons, please play Dungeons & Dragons.
Travis: It was so good.
Ashley: It's the best.
Liam: It'll make you so happy.
Orion: What about you? Keyleth?
Marisha: I remember at the time I had a, we were playing another campaign, and I had like a rogue assassin, that you were in with me. And I had a kind of assassin character who was super seductress, and really high charisma. And I remember when I joined this game, I didn't really know any of you guys really all that well, and I was kind of new to this world, so I ended up going with a kind of druid, and I kind of deliberately made her introvert, in a weird way to kind of reflect my newcoming to the group, but I was like, "whoa, it'll be like I can be quiet." so Keyleth has a really low charisma, but I kind of spin it in that she's naive, and doesn't really know. And that's why she says things like, "but Clarence." (all laugh)
Marisha: "You're just special." Because she's naive, and kind of quiet. So she was just different than anything I've played before. But I really love being a druid. Druids are great.
Taliesin: I played a lot in school. Other than Matt, I probably had the most experience playing D&D, and playing roleplaying games.
Travis: Yeah you did. Genius.
Taliesin: So I was really excited by the gunslinger in Pathfinder just 'cause it was something I hadn't done before. So I found it the most interesting and unusual, but I was not, and I also felt it was a hole within the group that could be filled very well.
Liam: Thedouginator keeps asking you, Matt, how you brought the party together the first day of play.
Marisha: Wait, we haven't heard Tiberius' story as sorcerer. Then we can answer that question.
Orion: When this was going on, I asked Matt if there was a caster yet, like any glass cannons, and he said no. So I debated between a wizard and sorcerer. When we went over the different mechanics, how a wizard and a sorcerer works, I was more drawn to that. And I'm a huge RPG guy.
Liam: You're so entertaining.
Orion: To piggyback a quick question, to seal off the Tiberius thing, somebody asked if any of our voice acting influences our characters. Tiberius, absolutely. I played Elminster Aumar in the Neverwinter MMO. Which is a D&D MMO. And when we started this I'm essentially doing Elminster, but I made him super bubbly.
Taliesin: No, someone asked how the group, yeah.
Matt: We got together, first session, essentially, was in a swamp town named Stillben, and the group at the time had, for their own separate reasons, been in this town, needing money, and had kind of come together as a mercenary group out of necessity. So the first session was them having known each other from a circumstance where they all ended up helping out an individual in the city, long story short, they had a small rapport, and knew at least each other were useful, and needed cash. And there was a job board in the town. So the first session was them being hired to look into a conspiracy within this swamp port town, Stillben. That was their first real adventure together. And when that finished, they kept going from there.
Orion: Uh, troll penis story.
Ashley: Troll penis. (all laugh)
Marisha: That's fair.
Orion: I know you guys keep asking.
Liam: Take it away, Mercer.
Matt: There was a battle. Subterranean battle that involved the party sneaking upon a group of two trolls that were around a fire. The idea to work past this came to Tiberius to transform himself visually into a female troll so he could Bugs Bunny them. Hey boys, you know, that thing. Not knowing the temperament of trolls, especially ones that are deep underground, and don't get to see female trolls very often, they immediately just got extremely aggressive, and he found himself almost between a rock and a hard place.
Orion: I was getting raped by trolls.
Matt: The party then descended upon these trolls, and in the middle of battle, at numerous times, I believe Percy once and Laura the other, both took specific shots at each troll's dick. Rolled a good shot with enough damage to blow them off. Now being a troll, they regenerate. But it was still a good effect, and when the battle was over, it was decided by the party to at least take one as a trophy and place it in the bag of holding.
Travis: That was decided by me, thank you.
Matt: By Grog, and as such, it stayed for a while, until it was used as an implement of distraction in another encounter I believe.
Travis: It worked.
Matt: Yeah, it worked. That was where troll dick came from.
Orion: It was spitroasting.
Liam: Jake Bodro asked what's it like playing for three hours in front of 2,500 people? I think our games have gotten a little bit better, only because when we play privately, there were sometimes lulls, where we weren't sure what to do, we would go off to bathroom, we would take a break. But now there's a little bit of the element of theater to it. Just a sprinkle of it. And it kinda of gooses the energy up.
Orion: I'm doing the same thing for the record.
Travis: I keep seeing this one. For the 11 year old Sadie, the son of Odin shall have that cookie!
Matt: Aw, that's sweet.
Ashley: There you go.
Matt: There is one bag of holding in the group, and Grog always has it.
Travis: A troll dick and a bulette tongue.
Matt: There are many things that go into the bag.
Travis: It hasn't gone in that bag.
Taliesin: Is there still a cow in the bag?
Travis: No, Dork the ox.
Matt: Dork the ox is probably not.
Travis: That's when we first learned its limitations.
Matt: Why does Scanlan have so many awesome spells? Bards in Fifth Edition have one of the options they can choose. As they level up, can choose a couple of spells from any spellcasting class, which is great, and the boon that bards kinda needed to be more combat-effective. And you can choose the School of Lore or the School of Combat, I think, for the bard. He chose the School of Lore which allows you even more spells from other classes to boost your repertoire, so he became a fucking amazing bard.
Liam: Also, Sam Riegel did a lot of a capella in college.
Travis: He did, he really did.
Liam: He helped write several seasons of The Voice, which was all about a capella, so Samis sort of a ringer for the bard class.
Matt: Yeah, kinda had to happen that way.
Travis: Can Marisha do her dwarf impersonation?
Marisha: Nope.
Liam: Yordee yorda--
Marisha: Yorda youree yourdee yourd.
Ashley: Someone asked if Grog could keep one of his women in the bag of holding. You can't put living things in the bag of holding.
Taliesin: As we've learned.
Matt: You can.
Marisha: With Dork.
Matt: They just die.
Travis: There's no air, it's like a vacuum. A magical vacuum.
Matt: Dork the ox did not survive.
Travis: One giant dead ox came out of the bag.
Liam: Someone keeps asking if any of us have hirelings, or henchmen, and the simple answer to that is no.
Matt: That's not true.
Liam: Just Trinket.
Orion: At our Keep.
Taliesin: We do.
Liam: Oh, that's right!
Travis: Yeah, we battle-tested them.
Orion: We have a Keep back in--
Liam: Right before we started.
Travis: The game before we came here. After they saved the kingdom of Eman, the sovereign Uriel Tal'Dorei III, as part of his gift to the group for essentially saving his family and the city itself, had a Keep constructed for them, and took about six months or so, and the Keep was finished, and then the party's first session was them finding who they're going to hire to take care of the Keep for them.
Liam: It was like one episode of the Sims.
Matt: Kind of. It was great too, 'cause Grog's whole idea of making them to see who would be the better hire was to break the pool cue and be like, "who survives?" Make them fight, it was pretty great.
Taliesin: For Tone17, I played a modified Malkavian, and a Smetty if you can believe such a thing, which was badass.
Matt: There you go.
Liam: We've been playing for two and a half years. Someone wanted to know how long.
Taliesin: Oh my God, really?
Travis: Did we tell them about your podcast with the recording of the very first one?
Liam: If you want, Sam and I, it's kind of languishing, but we have a podcast together called AllWorkNoPlay.
Travis: It's amazing.
Liam: We're both parents, we have kids, so we have no time to do anything. Enough time to take a shit. The first or second episode, the first episode is about us playing the first game, and there's audio from the first game. Again, go to iTunes, or to AllWorkNoPlay on Pod Bean, and you'll hear about two minutes of us dealing with a puzzle that Matt threw at us.
Marisha: It was timed.
Liam: Yeah, it was timed, there was an hourglass going off. It was us discovering D&D really for the first time. AllWorkNoPlay, all one word.
Marisha: Actually one of my favorite stories that I tell all the time is about you, from our first game, 'cause if you remember, I didn't play. I just kinda helped Matt help you guys. I was like a D&D minion. And I remember I was helping you, and I remember you were like, "So, if I just wanted to go up and punch those guards, I could do that?" And I was like, yeah, well you would go up, and you would punch them, and then Matt would tell you how you'd do that. And then you went like this, you were like.
Travis: Computing.
Marisha: Yeah, you were like, "so, we can do anything?" (all laugh)
Marisha: And I was like, yeah.
Liam: Taliesin on game one was actually not Percy, he was a dragonborn paladin?
Taliesin: I was a dragonborn paladin.
Liam: You fucking blew our minds, we were like, "what do I do? Can I do damage points to stop this puzzle." There was this tunnel with all these moving parts, we thought we were gonna be crushed, and he was a dragonborn for the first episode. It's in the recording on the the AllWorkNoPlay podcast. And he just breathed ice on this water-based--
Taliesin: Contraption.
Liam: And froze it, and everyone was like, "you can do that? You can't just roll dice and hit it?" And that's when we kind of understood oh, it's whatever the fuck you want.
Taliesin: That was such a good game for learning the basic mechanics. Such a well put together game.
Orion: Matt does control the music while we play.
Matt: Yes, I have playlists. They were much more broad playlists before, unfortunately on the stream, we have to use only approved royalty-free music, so it took me a while to figure it out previous to this.
Travis: I do miss those Madonna songs.
Matt: I know. I used to play a lot of Bush.
Marisha: Hey, would that count as fan art? If fans made us music?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Could we then use that? Yeah? He's nodding.
Zac: They can send us whatever they want.
Marisha: Some consent forms? Yeah.
Travis: If one of your characters died, would you roll a new character?
Orion: Music people out there.
Marisha: Any music people. Anything atmospheric.
Liam: No, no, that's an important question.
Travis: Ignore it.
Liam: No, it's important. Someone's asking, if we die, would we roll in a new character? And plus, we just started this show, so part of us were wondering like, what if we die the second episode? What happens? We recorded this opening to the show that's coming.
Matt: So here's how I run the world. I feel that one of the problems in some RPGs is that death becomes flippant when magic allows you to completely undo it. In my campaigns certain powerful spells like Greater Restoration, Resurrection, things like that are a challenge, meaning you can definitely undo death, but a lot of it is based on your capabilities as a spellcaster, your attachment to the people you've been traveling with. So if ever a character does die, a resurrection can be attempted, but it is a challenge. Which means there's a possibility of it failing. In which case, if the resurrection fails, the soul is lost, the character is permanently dead. The player then can leave and never come back if they want to, but they have the option to create a new character, and be reintroduced to the campaign like half a level lower than the rest.
Ashley: That would suck so much.
Liam: When Pike died we had, all of us, many series of dice rolls to do, and it was very story-based.
Marisha: Yeah people are asking how she came back.
Liam: Yeah, I mean, luckily we were in a big city, there was a huge temple. There were very wise clerics who were good at bringing people back. But still, we all had to roll. There was three rounds we had to roll, he might have fudged numbers, I don't know. But we were all still scared. We had to all, the majority of us, had to have good rolls three times in a row. Scanlan had to put--
Travis: The tears of three women in the room.
Liam: The tears, Scanlan had to kiss her on the head, he put a figure that he carved of her, it was very elaborate. This one was majorly in tears. Laura was in tears.
Ashley: I was in tears.
Taliesin: Laura was hyperventilating.
Orion: And when that was going on, I remember, when that went off, being still Tiberius, I was like in half character but half not, and I was not crying, I was like, (grumbles) the whole time, and as soon as she sprung back to life, because the cleric--
Matt: Breathed in her first breath after that.
Orion: We luckily, because I know it was a tight roll.
Matt: It was a very tight roll. It was a DC of 14 in the final roll, and because Scanlan brought out this figure of her that he had carved for her like two months beforehand as a gift, sets it down and kisses her on the forehead, and it was kinda the final connection point. He needed 14, he rolled a 12, but, because he-- There's a plus two modifier to the skill check, being a bard, and that was what he needed, he just made it. Basic, basic--
Liam: Someone's asking if we drink while playing, and the answer is no. (all laugh)
Travis: It's just water in those tankards.
Taliesin: Coffee.
Marisha: I almost did, yeah.
Orion: When she came back to life is when Tiberius, I was like, "oh my God, she's okay!"
Ashley: I think also having-- Because with magic and everything like that, just bringing somebody back to life so easily, since we don't have that as much as maybe other games-- It's heightened, so every time someone gets hurt, we're all, I think now, after having that death, all of us are like, "where are you at? Where are you at?"
Orion: Where are you going? I wish I could turn to Sam, but he's not here.
Ashley: We're all so stressed out now, which is, it's kinda cool.
Matt: Mortality's a real thing you have to deal with, and up until Pike's death it was kind of a thing people weren't considering. It just happened so suddenly.
Liam: One I see keep coming up since we started is how would we react to life if we were our characters? I don't know, or differently from our characters? 'Cause I wouldn't stab my children when they frustrate me.
Matt: I'd be in a padded room. (all laugh)
Marisha: I feel like everyone tries to make decisions in a game that their character would make in real life, 'cause that's kind of the point. I take into consideration that I have shitty charisma, whenever I open my mouth. I feel like we all try and take into consideration our background and our alignment, because that's, you know.
Taliesin: I feel significantly more badass than my character.
Orion: I feel... Tiberius is just me with magic. So that's how I feel.
Travis: Grog was easy, he makes bad decisions, which is just all that I do.
Matt: Pike died when they were fighting what was called a treachery demon, or a glabrezu, which had basically infiltrated the Sovereign Uriel, and the city of Emon. And when it revealed its final form, it got one lucky critical hit on Pike when she was too close, and just instantly took her out. That's how she died. Someone's asking if they can (laughs) send us equipment we need for the show. Zac.
Zac: Yeah, they can.
Matt: What do you need?
Zac: We'll put it on the wishlist.
Matt: There you go, it's on the wishlist.
Orion: There's a wishlist?
Matt: I didn't know there was one, but now there is.
Zac: Castle Greyskull on there.
Liam: How do we feel about Team Demihooman, and inspiring them to play D&D for the first time? I think the number one reason we all wanna do this is because we love each other, and we love this game. The second thing is we all knew, we kind of felt like-- We're gonna make Dungeons & Dragons cool again.
Matt: Try at least.
Liam: And make it open for anyone to do, there's no reason not to do this. If there's someone you know who doesn't understand it, don't worry about it. Just find some friends and connect with them.
Matt: I find one of the difficult things is explaining to somebody who has never played an RPG, or a game of D&D at all, they're like, "how does it work, what is it?" And it's hard to explain, so if anything, now we have an example with this show. Other than the IT Crowd episode, or the Community episode, which are both great examples for quick little succinct things.
Taliesin: If we had the power to bring one guest player for one session.
Orion: Oh, that's easy. Tom Hanks, for sure. (all laugh)
Marisha: Mazes and Madness.
Zac: Everyone is asking for you guys to somehow get Vin Diesel.
Marisha: I was gonna say, Vin Diesel.
Orion: He lives for this shit!
Matt: Vin Diesel's good. Top of my list is Stephen Colbert, because I know he also plays.
Ashley: That would be amazing.
Taliesin: I would love to see Joss Whedon do this. I admit I would like to see Joss Whedon play D&D. That'd be interesting.
Zac: That might be possible.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm throwing that one out there.
Orion: What, Tom Hanks isn't?
Marisha: Felicia's got some.
Matt: But he's also a super fuckin' busy man.
Orion: Guys, tweet at Tom Hanks to come play with us.
Travis: I'm Morgan Freeman, and I rolled a one.
Matt: Right now, Critical Role Hanks. See if we can make it trend. Patton Oswalt would be great.
Orion: That'd be hilarious.
Zac: What about Dan Harmon, just so I can get fired, can we do that? (all laugh)
Matt: Yeah. Hardwick used to play D&D with Patton Oswalt in the mid-2000s. I can't even imagine what those games were like.
Orion: I'd like to like-- Amy Poehler, I'd like to have one of those.
Zac: She might be open to that. She's a partner with Legendary.
Orion: I'd love her, Tina, Tina Fey.
Liam: Someone keeps asking about Troy, I don't know if Troy Baker is ready.
Orion: I don't think he's ready for this jelly. You guys think he's ready for this jelly? I don't think so.
Matt: Whenever it comes up in conversation, Troy always gives me that look of like... "All right."
Travis: You can see him swimming in the infinity of--
Marisha: "That's not cool."
Liam: He has some preconceived notions.
Marisha: "My scarves are cooler than you."
Matt: Once we get him like a proper plus two enchanted scarf.
Ashley: Can we ship Grog and Vex?
Travis: Grog and Vex. No, I'm here to annoy Vex by smacking her bear around, and she's here to tell me not to kill myself. "Don't jump into the crevasse, it's 1000 feet deep."
Ashley: Troy Baker is Pike's distanced dad. (all laugh)
Matt: That's pretty funny.
Liam: Answer this question I like, I saw it a couple times, how did you guys get involved in streaming for Geek & Sundry?
Travis: Virgin sacrifice.
Matt: The best way I know that happened was, we had been playing for a while, and we all work in the industry. People began to hear about our voiceover D&D game, weirdly. Like I'd come into sessions with directors I've never worked with before, they'd be like, "Oh yeah, you're the guy that runs that D&D game." How did that happen? How is that my thing? I'm cool with it, like heck yeah, my little high school self is like, I'm okay with being known about that. But then over time eventually Geek & Sundry contacted us. Felicia had heard about it. They called me in for a meeting, and we spent a number of months trying to figure out what format we were gonna try, if we wanna do it like multi camera, filmed canned episodes, then eventually the Twitch possibility came up, and we were like no, this is a much better format for us. And that's kind of how it happened.
Liam: Are you kosher with me, you took this film, there's a video of you breaking the news to us that Geek & Sundry came to you about it. Are you kosher with me sharing that video?
Matt: Yeah, I don't see why not.
Liam: All right, I'll find a way to put it through my Twitter. So just keep your eye on my Twitter.
Ashley: Wait, what are you sharing?
Liam: There was a video that Orion took when Matt told us about Geek & Sundry coming to him. And us all sort of toasting and laughing.
Orion: Reacting.
Liam: Giggling like idiots.
Matt: Why is D&D Pathfinder making you so much more attached to the characters than a regular RPG? If you mean like a video game RPG? I mean you get attached either way, but with this, because you are so much more fluid, with how you can influence the world, and the character, and the way the character reacts to the world and how it can influence it is so much more--
Marisha: Personal.
Matt: Personal, a good way of putting it. It's just that much more involving, and you invest so much into that atmosphere. And it depends on the group, some people just like to do dungeon crawls, and kill and get loot and experience, and that's totally cool too. For me at least. I like 'em both for different reasons. I still play the crap out of video game RPGs.
Liam: Someone asked if given the chance, would we like to do a live game at a convention like Acquisition Inc.? I'd like to do, although there's nine of us, so that'd be kind of--
Ashley: That'd be a long game.
Zac: We may be asking you guys to do that soon.
Liam: Oh good, then yes.
Matt: As long as you're handling the tech, I think we'd be fine with that.
Liam: I'd like to do it.
Zac: We may be streaming from Comic Con, I don't know. We may be asking if you guys are gonna go through that hell hole.
Liam: The answer is yes.
Orion: Can we get a jib? I like crane shots.
Marisha: Ooh.
Ashley: A helicopter? A helicopter shot.
Orion: Put it on the wishlist.
Zac: Put it on the wishlist, a jib.
Liam: How many of you aside from Matt have run a game of D&D or another RPG? In high school I ran a D&D game, I ran a Rifts game for a little while.
Matt: Rifts, yes.
Liam: I ran a cyberpunk game for a little while.
Travis: Really?
Liam: Yes. The last two months I have been helping my eight-year-old son and two of his friends from school create characters. And I wouldn't have done this if Matt had not forced this shit into my life. I wouldn't have done this, but I'm about to start running a game for my son, the half-elf druid, and his two friends, the dragonborn fighter, and the dragonborn rogue.
Travis: What if they die?
Liam: That's just how the cookie crumbles, motherfucker.
Travis: Oh man, you are teaching life lessons.
Marisha: Gotta teach lessons.
Travis: Go Fish and then D&D.
Taliesin: I ran a Rifts game as well in high school. Then I ran a game of Vampire the Masquerade, and I was in a bunch of them.
Liam: Of course you did.
Taliesin: Couple rounds of Paranoia, and Hole, because that's funny. Hole was amazing.
Matt: Which you gave me books for. For my birthday, which was awesome.
Marisha: I was a part of a Buffy the Vampire Slayer tabletop RPG for a while. Yeah, it's actually quite fun. I was a pyromancer.
Orion: Somebody asked a fun one, they asked if we play, what's our favorite video game?
Marisha: What's our favorite video games? Oh that's a hard question.
Orion: Is it?
Marisha: There's so many!
Orion: Well we can skip it.
Liam: Metal Gear, Dragon Age.
Ashley: Probably Portal, Portal or Dragon Age.
Matt: Portal's great.
Liam: Castlevania, Symphony of the Night, I played 'til I had blisters on my thumbs.
Matt: Symphony of the Night, yeah, dude. What is a man?
Taliesin: Borderlands 2, and I'm happy--
Ashley: Borderlands 2.
Liam: Pool of Radiance on my Commodore 64.
Orion: Oh shit.
Liam: Baldur's Gate, which I played again on my iPad a year or two ago. Somebody, oh go ahead.
Orion: I was just saying.
Liam: Somebody asked how we focus in the room with the sexual magnetism that is Scanlan Shorthalt.
Ashley: Ooh, it's tough man.
Liam: I don't know.
Taliesin: I wear a codpiece. I wear a codpiece that keeps everything in check.
Matt: I'm heavily sedated most of the game, just for that reason. Otherwise the clothes would just come right off.
Liam: I just let myself get a gigantic boner every week.
Matt: Does anyone play League? Generally.
Marisha: Sometimes. We're playing Heroes of the Storm more now.
Orion: I'm a big Final Fantasy fan. I like all kinds of games. I definitely would say if I had to pick one RPG, cause I'm an RPG guy, I love Chrono Cross, that'd be my favorite game. I've played that more than I have Chrono Trigger, which is way too many times.
Travis: Dragon Age race/class. Ash, anybody that plays?
Matt: Elf rogue.
Taliesin: Human fighter.
Travis: Always the mage.
Liam: Travis, stupid question, Thor, Odinson, or Hulk, in a knock down drag out?
Travis: Oh (scoffs).
Orion: Type-0 also, dammit.
Travis: Contractually, Thor, realistically, Hulk. I mean I am Thor, I can't say any other guy.
Taliesin: Hulk's on a scaling power level, 'cause he just gets too mad.
Travis: Yeah let's just be real about that. That's Hulk.
Matt: Tried new Final Fantasy yet?
Ashley: ChocolateSweets a bunch of times has asked would you guys consider cosplay for the games?
Taliesin: Well technically. We already did.
Marisha: You'll see, maybe next week?
Matt: He's trying the best he can. We have an intro coming up some point soon.
Zac: Halfway done.
Matt: Halfway done, we all shot loosely in character costumes inspired by everyone's characters, so you'll be able to see that soon.
Taliesin: If anyone would like to make us costumes.
Liam: One man doing it all.
Travis: A million arms.
Ashley: I think it would be kinda hard for me to play the game in cosplay, 'cause I have probably the most armor now.
Matt: You do. You wear the most armor.
Orion: That's a cool question. If you had to switch characters Matt, if you had to switch characters, which one would you be?
Marisha: If you had to trade places with one of us?
Orion: Yeah, if you would switch characters.
Zac: That question was Matt included, question was for everyone, if you guys could switch characters with anyone, who would you pick? Including Matt.
Ashley: I would probably switch with Liam or Travis.
Taliesin: Tiberius would be mine, I'd take Tiberius.
Liam: Scanlan, I would be Scanlan.
Matt: I would be Scanlan, bards man. Bards are my favorite class.
Marisha: I'd be probably either Scanlan or Pike.
Travis: I'd be Trinket.
Matt: Yeah you would.
Travis: Why are you peeing on everything?
Marisha: Bards and clerics are great.
Orion: I'd definitely be Grog. Just the complete opposite of what I can do.
Taliesin: I'm a WoW player on occasion, I haven't played in ages.
Orion: For the Horde.
Matt: Player wants to play a lizardfolk monk, what's my opinion about the idea? That's fine, I mean a player can play whatever they want to, as long as you as the DM want it in your campaign. Just make sure they have more to their character besides "I'm a lizard monk!" have a good reason why they trained as a monk. If they make a cool personality behind it, work it into the social structure of their lizardfolk people, and see whether the monks will be shunned or accepted, are they an outcast of the society? Think of those ideas, and make a cool character based on the story, from a fighting standpoint? That'd be cool. I used to play a lizard monk in Ruins of Kunark back in the old EQ days. Oh man. That was a while back.
Liam: Someone asked when Trinket came into the mix. Day one.
Travis: Day one. She had that shit like that. She knew she wanted a pet bear.
Marisha: He hasn't died yet.
Orion: He hasn't died, it's amazing, this thing has not died. He should have died so many times.
Matt: She spent all of her character focus in having a pet from combat, and then never puts it in combat, because she doesn't want it to get killed, and it's fucking hilarious.
Travis: We put it jeopardy situations before.
Matt: Yeah, you have. Every time she goes, "never again!" And I'm like, all right, well.
Taliesin: The day that bear dies, it's gonna get ugly.
Ashley: It's gonna be bad.
Orion: It's good to change her, as a character.
Travis: Alignment shift.
Taliesin: So much black to wear.
Marisha: Douginator asked me a super detailed question. So I don't wanna blow over it, 'cause it was awesome. He asked me how my path has gone, and my personal Aramente journey, and how working with the group has helped and slowed it down. For the Air Ashari and for Keyleth's journey, it's kind of expected to take her maybe ten, maybe 20 years? It takes her like, the Aramente is expected to take a long time, and part of it is her kind of proving herself a hero. So she kind of ended up tagging along with this motley crew in order to kind of help her so she's not doing it alone. So it's a good thing that she's tagging along. But she also has to deal with sometimes the moral dilemma of maybe choices that she might not normally make if she wasn't with the group that she has to go with.
Liam: I see two questions I wanna address. One is what is each of our favorite kill?
Orion: I was gonna say that was a good one.
Liam: And the second one is what's the story behind the Super High Intensity Team? (all laugh)
Liam: Let's start with the kills, and then we'll get to the SHITs. My favorite kill, I finished off a blue dragon we faced. We all chipped away at this dragon, someone who had disguised himself as human for a long time, then we came to their secret cubbyhole, and they revealed themselves. We chipped away and chipped away, then at the end I sort of parkour-ran up a wall and shoved the daggers into its neck, and just slid down its entire body and finished it.
Orion: My favorite kill is actually--
Liam: Until today.
Orion: When Pike kicked the bucket, and that moment all of us realized what happened, and there was an instant shift in real emotion, where whatever the hell, I don't even remember who we were fighting, because I went like, fucking cast this, and everyone's just, kill this thing, because we all cared so much in a real life situation, where we hated this thing, with real emotion, and we just slaughtered it.
Taliesin: The demon-possessed royal family was my favorite.
Liam: That was the same thing.
Taliesin: Yeah, that was my favorite fight. Just using the light, also we were shooting, I was getting to shoot holes in the glass.
Matt: The entire throne room had a glass dome overtop, but because the family had been possessed by the shades, these shadow entities, it was all covered. They were able to force these spirits out of the physical bodies without killing them by being able to tear off the cloth or shoot holes in it to allow sunlight in and use that as part of the battle tactic, it worked out really cool.
Marisha: Yeah, that was fun.
Travis: My favorite kill wasn't even an enemy, it was when Scanlan summoned that pony, when we were facing those five wizards. (all laugh)
Travis: He summoned this pony, and then I turned and abruptly cut its fucking head off, and reached in and grabbed its organs, and smeared its gore all over myself, and started screaming. And Mercer was like, "okay."
Orion: The fight ended there.
Matt: Roll intimidation, with a bonus.
Travis: Butchered a pony for intimidation.
Matt: Yeah, it worked.
Marisha: I think one of my favorite Keyleth moments, it wasn't a kill, but when we were in the crazy, Michael Jackson, Neverland Ranch, sorcerer dude's plane of existence.
Matt: The Dread Emperor.
Marisha: Yeah, when we were in his plane of existence, and we encountered that big tree rock monster, and I just happened to take Command Plants, and he happened to be a plant monster, so it just worked out perfectly, and I was just like, "we don't wanna fight you! back down." and avoided an entire battle.
Taliesin: Getting the magic carpet was also pretty badass.
Marisha: Oh yeah, that was a good story.
Liam: Another fabulous moment that you guys have to know about is we wanted to get into a tower at one point, and there was a very intelligent sort of right-hand man to whoever owned the tower. Scanlan just started fast-talking, which is his defining characteristic. Took his finger and put it right here as a mustache, and said, "hi, I'm Burt Reynolds." (all laugh)
Liam: And he rolled, either Scanlan rolled a 20--
Travis: I think it was a natural.
Matt: He rolled a natural 20.
Liam: And you weren't expecting it to work, in any way, shape, or form, and you went, "okay."
Travis: Mr. Reynolds.
Marisha: Burt Reynolds just announced that he's gonna be at Philly Wizard World with us, so we could theoretically tell him that story.
Matt: I have to.
Ashley: Burt Reynolds would be a dream guest.
Orion: Him and Tom Hanks.
Travis: He'd have to play on a bearskin carpet.
Matt: The whole family history organized.
Ashley: I've only had one kill.
Travis: But, it was what?
Ashley: And it was a dragon.
Travis: Yeah, dragonslayer.
Ashley: But the thing that I, probably the whole battle with the family that was sort of possessed when I actually died, that was probably one of my favorite battles. Maybe not after I died, prior to. When I got to finish off the dragon--
Taliesin: Was that on Christmas?
Ashley: The dragon? Yes. That night was so amazing because we had, we made it a winter festival. So we all came in our pajamas. It was close to Christmas, that's why it was a winter festival. It was like our little Christmas party.
Marisha: Our holiday episode.
Liam: That was sad for me because it was my idea but I had health problems at the time and I had to bow out, and I was very, very, very sad.
Matt: But you made it to this year's. I made it the following year, yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah, we had a whole little thing, it was really nice.
Matt: I would love to play D&D with Dame Judy Dench.
Marisha: Heck yeah.
Matt: You guys can tweet at her so you can get her to agree.
Liam: The SHITs. How did we become the SHITs?
Matt: Yes. So the party had run into a, debearded, actually, shaven dwarf named Grimthorn, who wanted to represent them for, what is occasionally, a roving brawling guild, essentially. Like underground fighting rings that happen around the world at different points throughout the year. It may come up again, we'll see. But they had to think of a team name. And Scanlan. Recommended the Super High Intensity Team. Which stuck for a while, so the group name, against the better judgement of, I think, a lot of the group, became The SHITs. So their name for a while was The SHITs, they were announced as The SHITs in the ring, when they won the tournament. That was when the pony was cut in half, to intimidate the opposing team.
Travis: Scanlan's idea also.
Orion: Tiberius and Keyleth were not happy.
Matt: SHITs stuck for a while until eventually they got rid of the SHITs, as all of a sudden they were about to go to the winter festival parade in their honor for saving the entire city of Eman, and the Sovereign Uriel said, "what should we announce you as?" and it was decided not to announce you guys in front of the city at your parade as The SHITs.
Ashley: I was super into it. Still love The SHITs.
Matt: Instead the name became Vox Machina. So if you've heard them say that, that's the official team name they've created for themselves as a group.
Orion: With credit to Sam as well, which was voted down was also the Brotherhood of the Sisterhood. Which I was a huge fan of. I really wanted it to be the Brotherhood of the Sisterhood. But Vox Machina sounded cooler.
Ashley: The Brotherhood of the Sisterhood of the Order, or something like that?
Marisha: The Order of the Brotherhood of the Sisterhood.
Orion: So Tiberius recognizes as the Vox Machina/Brotherhood of the Sisterhood.
Liam: LargoSensei keeps asking, what are your most cathartic voice acting experiences? I'm gonna guess for Ashley that's The Last of Us, since that's your fucking heart ripped out of your chest.
Ashley: Probably, yeah.
Liam: Gollum was pretty sad for me, because he's a miserable bastard. Also Angel from Wolverine, the X-Men.
Orion: Wait, does cathartic mean sad?
Liam: Well it just means get your fucking demons out. Chew it up.
Taliesin: Mine's really old, it's probably either Monster or Paranoia Agent. I'm gonna go that far back. Yeah, all the way back.
Matt: Fate Zero for me had a moment that was pretty intense emotionally, that I really enjoyed.
Travis: Knuckles the Echidna in Sonic. (all laugh)
Matt: Sonic Boom, yo.
Marisha: Boom, Sonic Boom.
Travis: What's that?
Liam: Infamous, maybe?
Travis: Oh, yeah.
Liam: Pretty fucking sad.
Travis: Brothers. Brotherhood. Brotherly love.
Orion: I'd say for me it was doing Type-0. Not so much the actual lines, 'cause I had a lot of fun. I don't know if that's cathartic, but. Completing an actual real life dream goal. I've said this a couple times before, but the last day I was recording the last stuff, I was literally crying on the way home, because I finally got to level myself up. And this thing kept it up, and it was really cool.
Travis: Matt, who were you in Fate-0?
Matt: I'm Kiritsugu, Kiritsugu Emiya.
Travis: Bless you.
Matt: Thank you. That's the dark assassin character.
Taliesin: Saw a question about Percy's home, and his family. Percy has a really really big family, that I don't mention in the video, and he has not been home yet. He has no interest in going home yet, 'cause that's terrifying. So we have not dealt with that.
Matt: That's going to be interesting when that comes around.
Travis: What's under the freakin' lake?
Liam: What's under the freakin' lake, Matt?
Marisha: Yeah, what's under the lake?
Matt: You were told.
Orion: Yeah, it's one of those big--
Matt: Aboleth.
Marisha: Oh yeah that's right, I did write it down.
Matt: Which you encountered one underground.
Marisha: Yes, I was a shark.
Matt: Put the slime into the water. You could only breathe water and couldn't breathe air.
Marisha: Remember, 'cause I was like, "I'm gonna be crafty and turn into a shark," and then I started immediately drowning.
Orion: How do you keep players from getting OP, Matt?
Matt: Make the monsters more powerful.
Orion: Behind the scenes, I'm always constantly up his ass, trying to make Tiberius as OP as possible, and he's always stopping me a lot.
Matt: Balance is important. I mean, the characters, everyone here has really good characters that have a lot of cool abilities, but they also have a lot of challenges that come at them that make them, not only use those abilities, but also, monsters can have cool abilities too.
Liam: Bracheon89, you said Stephen King plays D&D?
Ashley: Yes, that's what I was trying to say. What?
Liam: Bracheon, we're going to wait for your answer. How do you know he plays D&D?
Ashley: Are you sure?
Liam: Let's get him in here.
Matt: I'd love that.
Taliesin: The group's worst decision in D&D was the dragon, I think.
Marisha: Oh yeah, Grog?
Taliesin: Grog.
Travis: Listen, there was a shitload of gold.
Ashley: I still don't think that was a bad idea.
Orion: Oh, when he started hoarding all the gold?
Marisha: We still don't know if that--
Liam: Takes a lot of stupid.
Marisha: He might have been an ally. We might have killed someone who was valuable.
Taliesin: You were still freaking out like a month later, you were feeling really bad.
Travis: Well, I did almost get us killed.
Ashley: I feel like it was a good decision.
Matt: To be fair, it's the only time I've ever had a player rage loot before. (all laugh)
Matt: You went into a rage, and used it to just loot more. And then the dragon revealed itself, and you looked at it, and you just kept looting. (all laugh)
Travis: You guys take care of this.
Ashley: That was hilarious.
Matt: That's Grog.
Liam: Somebody keeps asking, and we'll do a show of hands here, Lord of the Rings or Game of Thrones?
Ashley: Oh, come on.
Marisha: Ooh, that's tough.
Liam: What do you prefer? 10 seconds to think about it, and then I'll--
Taliesin: That's like Star Trek or Star Wars.
Marisha: Yeah, hard.
Liam: They're asking the question.
Zac: Don't be afraid, come on.
Travis: That's tough.
Liam: Lord of the Rings, fuckin' Lord of the Rings. There you go, there's the answer.
Ashley: I don't know, man.
Taliesin: Lord of the Rings, but I see Game of Thrones on the side.
Liam: I love Game of Thrones.
Marisha: Of course we do.
Travis: Lord of the Rings.
Taliesin: We wouldn't have Game of Thrones without Lord of the Rings.
Marisha: That's the thing.
Liam: Maybe possibly not Dungeons & Dragons without Lord of the Rings.
Ashley: This is true, it's the OG. I don't know what that even--
Taliesin: You said that. That just came out of your mouth.
Ashley: Please let's leave it alone. Moving on.
Travis: That's the OG.
Ashley: What is this, what do we have over here? Well, who was the old gnome that Grog saved in his intro video?
Liam: Pike's daddy.
Ashley: No, that was my great great grandfather.
Travis: That's right.
Ashley: Yes, great great grandfather Wilhand.
Travis: Wilhelm, hand? Wilhand.
Ashley: That's right.
Liam: Wilhand the money.
Travis: Grog has an intelligence of six, he's gonna get names wrong from time to time.
Liam: Everybody, if you could choose whatever fantasy world to live in, what would it be?
Travis: Marvel.
Taliesin: Ooh.
Orion: I would live in the... Next Generation world, universe.
Taliesin: You had me at Marvel.
Travis: Yeah.
Zac: Here's the thing, you could live in Marvel what you live in, if you couldn't live in that world as a superhero, just as a normal person.
Travis: Right, not in New York. Anybody that lives in New York in the Marvel universe is just stupid. Like rent's gotta be $1.50.
Taliesin: Terrible idea.
Matt: I'd say Myst. So I can just write my own worlds to infinity from there.
Liam: Lord of the Rings.
Matt: Or Amber as well.
Ashley: I was gonna say Lord of the Rings. Maybe Rivendell.
Marisha: I'm gonna say Final Fantasy 10.
Matt: Grey Havens. If you're gonna do Lord of the Rings, do Grey Havens, 'cause you're far enough away from Mordor, where it's generally not gonna be a problem.
Liam: I wanna be one of the Fellowship. Ashley Johnson lived in a Marvel universe already, right?
Matt: That's true.
Orion: See, and it's a big hassle.
Marisha: It was a big hassle.
Orion: Yeah.
Matt: Before the stream, our D&D session--
Marisha: High insurance rates.
Matt: Before the stream our D&D sessions would happen once every month to month and a half, more like month and a half.
Liam: Why is Matt Scarlet Witch?
Matt: I'm down with it. 'Cause I alter reality. Power makes sense. Our sessions used to be once every month, or month and a half, and they would be about six to eight hours. But the problem is we'd play so infrequently, every session I'd have to remind everyone what happened, and it was hard to schedule. Part of the reason we're even doing this show, is because it's technically work, which allows those of us who have families and children more of an excuse to come more often. So yeah.
Liam: Googoo17, Arkazey keeps asking, what's your favorite nerdy t-shirt you own? Mine is one that says Mordor World Tour, it looks like a rock 'n' roll t-shirt, but it says Mordor World Tour.
Marisha: That's cool. Favorite nerdy t-shirt.
Taliesin: I've got a Sons of Anarchy Doctor Who t-shirt, I'm a really big fan of. I'll wear it next week.
Marisha: I've got like an army, kind of soldiery, looking t-shirt that says Chimera, like Chimera Corps.
Matt: That's actually the one I was gonna say, that's my favorite shirt too.
Marisha: I like your displacer kitty you've got.
Matt: Displacer kitty's kind of cool. Adorable.
Taliesin: I like your shine on me shirt.
Matt: Oh God. If you guys haven't watched. Chris Dane Owens, on YouTube, Chris Dane Owens, Shine on Me. It's a music video, watch it. Chris Dane Owens, Shine, or Shine on Me, YouTube, do it.
Taliesin: I love that you own the shirt from it.
Matt: I bought a shirt from it, 'cause it's that amazing, I had to.
Travis: Did anyone tell Pike that Scanlan killed the naga for her?
Matt: I don't think someone's done it yet.
Liam: Scanlan had his first kill. You saw it, right?
Matt: You saw it on the stream.
Ashley: I saw it, me, Ashley saw it, but Pike did not hear about it yet. Who knows, that could be the thing that seals the deal. I'll be like, you killed the naga? Okay, let's do this. (all laugh)
Marisha: Any betrayals in the game?
Matt: No betrayals, disagreements, and occasional--
Travis: Trippings and beat-downs.
Matt: And stealing of flying carpets.
Ashley: I actually did step, I kind of did hurt Liam one game. Or Vax.
Liam: The game we played together? We did just the two of us one night.
Ashley: There were some of the girls changing in a room.
Matt: I forgot about this.
Liam: I was very curious to see you naked. But that's kinda fallen on the wayside.
Ashley: Vax was very curious to see what a gnome looked like naked.
Liam: Never seen it before.
Marisha: So you did a little peeping tom?
Liam: Why wouldn't I wanna expand my horizons?
Matt: So he rolled stealth.
Ashley: So he rolled stealth, and he did, and saw or whatever, and then when I came back out, and I found out about it.
Liam: Looked good, it was compact.
Ashley: It was just a small human. And I think I stepped on your foot, and gave you some damage.
Liam: Maybe a hit point.
Ashley: Yeah, a hit point or two.
Matt: You earned it.
Ashley: I earned it.
Orion: Somebody, seagullblaster--
Liam: No, Vax didn't spy on Vex, sorry, go ahead.
Orion: Asked-- Tiberius said something about the Palestone, and what it is, and this is, somebody asked a different question, this is kinda gonna answer both. I, and everybody else, wrote backstories for Matthew to essentially give him so he could construct our universe. Tiberius' particular quest is looking for particular artifacts. Essentially I made him like Mulder. Nobody believes in the city that these things exist, except him, so the truth is out there kinda thing. So I made up these five different artifacts that do different things. And I don't know what they do until I might maybe find them, and if I do, it's up to him, to Matt, to determine what they are, if they are anything. They might be nothing, I don't know. I've found one item so far, and it's awesome, and all of us have given him bits and pieces, and that's how he constructs our story with things that you throw in yourself.
Matt: Yeah, and each player, all their story lines work into the world. Not all of them will happen immediately of course, some people have had personal encounters and story encounters already, some are yet to occur, and there will be points throughout the campaign where the party will probably have to move and individually deal with each person's story to some extent.
Marisha: Dealt a little bit with each person.
Matt: Touched a little bit like-- In Eman, we've seen Vex and Vax's father.
Liam: Vex and I ran into to our father again for the first time in many years, it was a little frosty.
Matt: Had a new family.
Liam: Have a little half sister.
Travis: Matt, you have a favorite voice? And does it hurt to do the gnarly monster voice?
Matt: If you do it for an extended period of time it can be kind of shitty.
Ashley: I don't know how you do this new one.
Travis: Breathing in and out.
Liam: That's inward singing, man.
Travis: It is inward singing.
Liam: And then I'm fucking singing, and then--
Matt: Actually, it's funny, a bunch of my NPCs that I've done since high school have ended up turning into characters I've booked. I'll go into an audition and be like, "I'll go ahead and do Nutibe Curios, from my Second campaign," and I'll end up doing that character. Alof in Pillars is a character I NPCed back in high school.
Liam: That's awesome.
Taliesin: They still haven't heard my favorite voice from this campaign yet. 'Cause we haven't gone back to the city yet.
Matt: Oh, Gilmore?
Liam: Gilmore is a wonderful magician who owns a shop.
Orion: Was that the fancy--
Liam: Yes, in the city of Eman, he's got a big friggin' crush on me, and wants me. Wants me and some day you and I will actualize that.
Matt: We'll have to roleplay that.
Liam: Maybe in a game. Maybe not.
Travis: What do we think is taking over the hive mind?
Matt: What do you guys think is taking over the hive mind?
Marisha: Well we know it's named--
Orion: Obviously some butthole.
Ashley: I think I might have an idea.
Travis: Yeah, you had a vision that we don't even know about yet, right?
Ashley: Well.
Travis: Taking those mushrooms, having those visions.
Ashley: Taking those mushrooms.
Liam: Someone asked how do game devs find us for acting work? We all audition, hundreds of people audition, for every role in Los Angeles, we all just try. Today I worked on a superhero game, and the guy who was directing me for voiceover said, "hey, so what are you doing for the rest of the day?" And I said, well, I'm gonna go to the gym, I'm gonna do this, then I'm gonna go do that, do you know about that D&D show that a couple of us are doing? And he's like, "yeah, I heard about that." And the guy who had written the game went, "yeah, I've watched every episode." (all laugh)
Matt: So awesome.
Taliesin: That's so cool.
Ashley: Someone wants to hear Gilmore's voice.
Taliesin: I think we should save that for, wait until they actually meet Gilmore.
Travis: Yeah, we can't give it away.
Matt: Gilmore's a fun one.
Ashley: Gilmore's awesome.
Matt: Gilmore is very Broadway. He's very--
Taliesin: Not the gargoyle.
Matt: No, no. I could see him being a character in a John Waters film.
Taliesin: Oh my God, yeah.
Ashley: Totally.
Liam: Give him a pencil-thin mustache.
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: I'm trying to catch up.
Travis: Greater overall motivations?
Matt: That may or may not be secret, depending on the characters.
Marisha: What is each person's favorite D&D monster?
Travis: A dead one.
Liam: I liked it when Grog got it on with a, what was it, a nymph?
Travis: What?
Matt: Yeah!
Travis: You don't know man, I went through the portal, handled my business like a champ.
Liam: In the air.
Travis: I don't kiss and tell. Nobody knows. I got what we were supposed to get.
Liam: A nymph could have attacked us, but Grog looked her in the eye, and she liked what she saw. Then he disappeared for a little while, and he came back and he was in a really good mood.
Travis: I flashed her the look, man. She was mine, what can I say?
Taliesin: I like the little green gelatinous cubes. I think they're fun, and then if you make 'em right, you can just make 'em out of jello, and eat them when you're done, that's awesome.
Matt: I don't wanna answer that question necessarily, because I might be using them in the campaign at some point.
Orion: Which one?
Matt: Nothing.
Ashley: So that means we haven't used 'em yet.
Matt: But overall, I just love the tarrasque because it's like the game ender. It's the godzilla. It's the one DM's move where he's like, "I'm done with this campaign, hey guys, you're gonna fight a tarrasque, either you're all gonna die, or you beat it, and you beat the game!" So the tarrassque is always fun.
Orion: Is it the final boss?
Liam: I've always been fascinated with the mind flayers. You're fucking throwing an army of them at us. 'Cause they're dangerous.
Matt: Yeah, they're terrible.
Liam: And they're so outside of the norm.
Matt: And hey you stealthed up, and pretty much killed one in one round today.
Orion: That was insane. When the mud on the face, and the stab in the fucking back of the head.
Matt: You guys black ops'ed that entire barracks.
Liam: I'm proud of the knife.
Taliesin: I know what you're talking about.
Travis: Grog and Scanlan have no bastard children, that we know of. Or that you can prove.
Liam: Other streamed D&D games, like Rollplay hosted by itmejp?
Travis: No.
Liam: No. Maybe we will, though.
Orion: I won't.
Liam: Everyone play Dungeons & Dragons.
Ashley: My favorite NPC character is a little butler who I think became--
Travis: Yes!
Ashley: He's the cutest little thing you will ever see, and I think now he works at--
Taliesin: He works for us now.
Matt: Yep, you guys hired him, and he's currently helping keep your Keep in good shape.
Ashley: What's his name?
Orion: The old fellow, right?
Matt: I'm trying to remember, I'll have to go look at the list again. I have so many NPCs, I have a hard time.
Ashley: He's just the sweetest little thing you ever did see.
Matt: Grog's flatlined intelligence, anything like that happen before? That was the first of that type of situation.
Travis: I went unconscious once 'cause I fell, how far did I fall?
Taliesin: Wow, you fell.
Orion: Oh, that was a crazy one too.
Matt: They were there fighting in an underground cavern, and at the very, very top of this giant, like 170-foot ceiling, which they had all kinda floated up to, and put a rope, anchor in.
Travis: I was ready to Toro the bull.
Matt: The first umber hulk you guys ever encountered, ended up pushing Grog out of the hole, bullrushing him. Had the rope tied around his waist, but unfortunately Grog weighs about 600 pounds, rope snapped, and he took enough damage to go from full health to unconscious and bleeding out in one round.
Marisha: 'Cause he confused you, right? And you just hari-karied off the hole?
Travis: I was gonna dodge and be all awesome, and say ole or some shit, but I was just out.
Marisha: That was when I was a spider tiger. 'Cause I cast Spider Climb on myself, and I was in tiger form, so I was spider climbing all over the place.
Matt: That's also one of my favorite risky rolls, which was after that happened, Tiberius, you pushed the umber hulk onto the ground, or through the hole, it fell.
Orion: I had this amazing spell with Pathfinder called Aquasphere, orb, and you can like, capture large creatures. I literally can waterbend a sphere and carry this dude and drop them down, it was amazing, I miss it so much. Continue the story.
Matt: So essentially Tiberius decided, 'cause Grog was unconscious, and the creature was down there. All of them were stuck 170 feet up, in this little hive essentially. Tiberius said fuck it, he jumped out of the hole, swan dove down, and cast Featherfall on himself at the last minute, had to make a concentration check because of the wind rushing past, and having to cast a spell while falling. It's a very difficult thing. He had about a 40% chance of success, 60% chance of instant death, and he made the roll. I love risky moments like that so much, I love 'em.
Travis: It was pretty legit.
Orion: I did it again and held that fucker, it was intense.
Marisha: I'm wondering when we're gonna face a beholder.
Matt: That'll be nasty.
Marisha: That's my favorite D&D monster.
Orion: With all the eyes?
Marisha: They're like a big floating head with a giant eye, and they've got tentacles, with eyes on the end of 'em, and each eyeball does a different ray of effect.
Travis: A beholder?
Matt: Nasty.
Travis: You know what that is too?
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: They're nasty.
Ashley: Bad news bears.
Marisha: They're super awesome. One of these days we're gonna fight one.
Matt: One of these days.
Liam: They're a signature character of Dungeons & Dragons. They represent D&D.
Travis: What made the dwarves get bigger today in the battle?
Matt: That's actually an ability of the duergar.
Liam: Viagra.
Matt: Yeah. They can summon through sheer force of will, and just the way they've been bred over time, they can increase their form for a short time to increase their damage, and be just a general asshole, so. It's an ability the duergar have.
Travis: Long lost son.
Liam: I'm gonna guess that none of us have been to Sweden?
Matt: I have.
Ashley: My dad was from Sweden.
Matt: That's awesome. I've been to Gothenberg.
Taliesin: That's not surprising.
Orion: I have not, but I would like to go.
Marisha: Yeah, who wouldn't want to go to Sweden?
Liam: Makes sense. Pale and blonde.
Matt: Have you been?
Ashley: Never been.
Matt: It's beautiful, I spent two weeks in Gothenberg, Sweden, on business years ago. It was gorgeous. Food was amazing. Nothing like walking down the street and seeing a giant gothic stone structure with an archway and a gargoyle perched, and you walk in and it's a 7-Eleven. It's pretty hilarious. All the architecture there is old, but it's been repurposed, it's great.
Liam: If you had to choose would you pick to receive an extra level, or Matt's hair?
Matt: God damn it.
Liam: Matt's hair. (all laugh)
Ashley: Hair, obviously.
Marisha: Receive an extra level or Matt's hair.
Travis: You can't get hair like this without unicorn blood. My God.
Matt: I'm gonna shave my head one of these days.
Liam: Shave his head, he can't DM anymore.
Matt: I'd wither. It's like Sampson. I would just like become this little raisin, I'd be David Tennant.
Liam: The beholder strikes for the-- mawp. Mawp.
Matt: Let's see. What are the questions we got up there?
Marisha: It is 11 38, by the way.
Liam: What is the most outrageous and unexpected thing to come from a natural 20? That was Scanlan.
Ashley: Probably the--
Liam: Scanlan as Burt Reynolds.
Marisha: Oh right.
Matt: We'll take about five more minutes of questions. Five or ten more minutes of questions, then we gotta take off.
Liam: How long will you be doing this show? 30 years.
Matt: Considering we've been playing for two and a half years, and everyone's level nine, we can keep going for quite some time. Whether or not we continue past that, means either we do a new campaign, or we go into epic or mythic levels? We'll cross that bridge when we get to it. I mean, I'd love to keep playing for as long as people wanna play, but also people get busy, life changes, we'll see how it goes. I'm in for the long haul as much as everyone else is.
Liam: Matt, multiple people are asking what the music is that we're hearing on the show.
Matt: What you hear in the show is a combination of a gentlemen named Kevin Macleod, who has a website called Incompetech, which he produces really amazing, royalty-free musical tracks. I've used them for many web series for many years. He's very talented, and I contacted him, and asked him permission to use on the stream. He's like, "yeah, anything on Twitch, go for it." And the other half are a lot of soundscapes I use from a company called Platemail Games, which make great custom RPG soundscapes, and some tracks that are just creepy, and dwarf cityscapes, and dark forest night. It's a great, great resource. Those are my two big ones for this Twitch stream.
Orion: And yes, we did roll for our starting stats.
Matt: Yeah it was 4d6, drop the lowest, arrange as desired. So it was a powerful campaign.
Liam: What was the most nail-biting moment the group has seen? It was Pike's death.
Marisha: Pike dying.
Matt: Definitely. Do you prefer being the DM, or do you like mixing it up and being characters? I never get a chance to play games really. It's kind of one of those, always a DM, never a bride circumstance.
Liam: You wanna play with my kid?
Matt: Yeah. I'll be an evil character and murder them all, you're going to regret it immediately, make 'em just cry.
Liam: "Listen, that's the game, suck it up!"
Matt: Yeah, turn it into Mazes and Monsters.
Taliesin: Is that why you play so much War Machine, is because for once you don't have to be responsible?
Matt: Probably. I occasionally, I got to play a game of Diaspora for a while, with Philip Eisner, the guy who wrote Event Horizon. So playing a sci-fi kind of horror-based universe with him running, that was great. That was very brief.
Liam: Matt, can you give us any teasers of things to come?
Matt: No. See as they happen, man, that's part of the fun, the mystery of it all. I know what's coming. I got stuff planned for years. It's gonna be fun.
Liam: Do you have any advice to get into voice acting? Learn to act, study acting, go to where the work is, keep acting, in anything, in fucking anything. Go to where the work is. Act.
Matt: What age did you play your first tabletop RPG game? For me it was Second Edition Dungeons & Dragons, and it was freshman year of high school.
Taliesin: GURPS, 13. I was, yeah, 13 years old, GURPS.
Ashley: Favorite tabletop games, not D&D?
Liam: Get Hulk Hogan to play.
Orion: That's not D&D?
Taliesin: Mansions of Madness.
Marisha: Mansions of Madness is great.
Orion: Is MTG, Magic the Gathering a tabletop? Is that considered tabletop?
Marisha: It's a card building game.
Orion: Magic.
Marisha: War Machine.
Matt: War Machine is really fun.
Marisha: I'm a Cryx player.
Matt: It's awesome.
Ashley: I'm just starting.
Matt: You're the awesome Retribution.
Orion: I'm Circle of Orboros.
Taliesin: We played with Scanlan, of course we do.
Travis: It said do you ever think about sexuality while playing, besides Grog, of course. Scanlan does, I'm sure other people have.
Taliesin: It's hard not to think about it with Sam.
Travis: We just pay for it.
Liam: Are we gonna release more background information of your campaign?
Matt: Yes, actually.
Liam: We are?
Matt: Time has been hard, but I'm trudging through. What I'm gonna make essentially is a video recap of the previous two and a half years of the campaign. I'm gonna narrate it, it's gonna be very simple. It's gonna be just information, with the occasional slides of stuff in the background. But I'm working on a video, kind of like your guys' intros, that'll be a synopsis of the story up until this stream stared.
Travis: Claymation, that's awesome, man.
Matt: I will destroy you, I will fucking stab you.
Liam: If you want, it's not much, but I have a Vine account that's under the name VoiceofOBrien, and I took a lot of Vine videos from our private game. So it's not a ton, but you'll see us acting like shitheads.
Travis: That's seven seconds at a time.
Marisha: Seven seconds at a time, yeah. I think I still have the video of you trying to woo the nymph lady.
Travis: Try?
Taliesin: That was a good video.
Marisha: It's basically just you flirting with my boyfriend.
Taliesin: I have some videos of the tarot game, and a couple of us
Travis: Matt is now a nymph.
Matt: Yeah, we sat there, and, hey man, I've had to flirt with quite a few of these people as characters, it's interesting.
Liam: Who's your favorite NPC that you brought to life for us?
Matt: Oh, that's a tough one. There's been a lot of good ones. I really enjoyed Grimthorn, the dwarf that was--
Liam: Clarota is pretty good.
Matt: Yeah, Clarota is great. He was the one eyed dwarf with the shave, that was taking you guys to the fighting ring. He was fun. I'm enjoying Balgus as well, he's a good one.
Marisha: Ballsack.
Liam: Ballsack.
Marisha: Do we have nicknames for all of our NPCs?
Matt: You know, I really enjoy Arcanist Allura Visoren.
Orion: So do I!
Matt: She's an awesome, powerful, headstrong elven sorceress, who is part of a, not a secret, but a very powerful circle of magic practitioners around the world, and also a member of the council of Tal'Dorei. She's one of the largest allies that this group has had through a lot of the adventure arcs, and I love playing her, she's great.
Liam: Grog, have you even thrown a gnome as an attack.
Travis: The very first time we played, I picked up Sam and chucked him across a room. That was full of a trap.
Marisha: Fastball special.
Travis: And it worked. It was awesome.
Matt: What character type would I play if I ever got a chance to play? I would probably be a bard. I wanna make a bard that actually conducts the battle. Meaning, sits there and watches the fight, and he's conducting, like music happens when other people attack. Cymbals go off, and drum beats, and all of his abilities are tied to music, so he's actually conducting the battle like a symphony. That's what I wanna make.
Marisha: That's cool.
Ashley: That's badass.
Matt: One day.
Liam: Would you ever play an evil character? My contingency plan, if I get killed, I don't know about evil, but he won't be as nice as Vax.
Matt: Evil characters have to be discussed with the DM. I'm iffy on the evil character, unless they have a good reason, and a personality that isn't going to completely derail the campaign. Doing an evil campaign, that's fine. But if you're building a character that is going to inherently be a troll, and basically diminish everybody else's good time in the story, it becomes a problem.
Zac: It's the internet though, man.
Matt: I know. If you make a cool, interesting evil character, that can be evil but still like, like a good example would be in Baldur's Gate, Edwin.
Zac: What if one of your guests, that came on for one night, would they be allowed to be?
Matt: Yeah, they'd be allowed to. They may not survive.
Orion: Tiberius might not--
Marisha: Or kill them.
Liam: I don't know about evil, but if I have to come back, I might be a lot more selfish.
Matt: In it cool news, tabletop columnist, offering to DM a game for me. I may have to hit you up on that some time. 'Cause that'd be awesome.
Taliesin: He deserves a break.
Zac: How do you remember all the voices that you've done of the NPC's over the years?
Matt: I make notes and audio files.
Travis: You do?
Matt: I do. As a reminder in case I forget.
Travis: Jarvis. (all laugh)
Matt: I have notes written next to every NPC, like an accent or dialect that I chose for them, a general texture. Kind of like what you'd see for breakdowns for a character you're auditioning for. I basically make that for each NPC to remind me of what I've done. And if it's a particularly weird voice that I don't know if I could replicate in the future, after the session I'll go and do a little audio file of me doing the voice so I can go back to it later.
Travis: You're a freak of nature, man.
Taliesin: Seriously.
Matt: Good question.
Marisha: There's a lot that goes into it. I think Matt, just to put it into perspective, for everyone in the chat room, I think Matt probably spends close to eight hours, at least, on each time before we play. Or I guess at least we used to.
Matt: For our big session, I'd spend as much time preparing as we did playing. I'll put it that way, I spend as much time preparing as we play. So for these sessions, I'm spending about three hours a week, preparing, what, three to four hours a week? For old sessions that was bigger.
Liam: Someone asked, what was the reaction to discovering you had a magic flying carpet? Which you can see if you go to Matt's YouTube channel. There's a video that Ashley made of us playing, and you see our reactions to that.
Marisha: Who was it, was it you, or Vex? That tried to float down with the carpet, and then we realized it was magic?
Liam: Yeah, underneath.
Marisha: But we tried to just use it like a parachute.
Matt: It was a crumbling tower, it was Allura's tower. You guys went into, realized she was missing, because the tower had been attacked. You set off essentially a defense system of her arcane tower, which caused it to crumble into a tiny pearl.
Orion: Tiberius jumped out the window and just cast Featherfall.
Matt: Yeah, and just kinda glided away. You turned into an eagle and grabbed the gnomes. The rest of the party had to try to rapidly escape a crumbling tower that was compacting on to itself.
Marisha: I think it was mainly the twins in the tower.
Liam: Hey, Grog almost died once. He fell from a great--
Matt: You fall a lot, but when you fall on to something, that thing is fucked.
Matt: All right, we're winding down here, 'cause we gotta leave here shortly guys. Two more questions.
Liam: Three more questions.
Zac: Closing messages before you guys go, too.
Matt: Oh yeah, all right, so we'll do a couple more questions, then we'll go to closing messages. Who wants to pick?
Liam: Let's make it a magic three.
Marisha: Let's do a good one.
Matt: Three, three questions, make 'em quick. Let's see.
Marisha: Waiting for a good one.
Matt: How much does Grog weigh? Grog weighs approximately 600 pound we decided.
Travis: Just under 700.
Matt: So he's kinda rough.
Travis: It's all muscle, bitch.
Matt: Yeah it is. Muscle and brains.
Travis: Muscle and wang. 500 pounds and a hundred-pound wang.
Matt: Any of you consider running a game for fans of the stream? Actually, I've run a couple games at conventions for some groups. I had a couple of sessions I ran, actually in conjunction with Wizards, they sent stuff out for us.
Taliesin: And for charity.
Matt: Yeah, we've had some charity D&D games out here in L.A. So we've done them before. I'd consider it if there was time available, and a venue that allowed it. So if it does happen, we'll definitely announce it here.
Travis: Best item in your inventory?
Orion: That's for a magic item?
Travis: Oh, did we already say that? I'm just blanking.
Orion: No.
Taliesin: It's hard to read this quickly.
Matt: You guys have some good questions.
Travis: My brain's turning into applesauce.
Ashley: I know, me too.
Liam: Do you realize how lucky you all are to have such a nice group of friends?
All: Yes.
Matt: Very much so.
Taliesin: The world is cold and unfeeling.
Liam: Let's close it on that. I love these guys.
Matt: And I like to think that this is, because there are so many good people out there in the world, and we were lucky enough to find each other through weird circumstances. And there are so many good people in the world out there, don't close yourself off to it. You'd be surprised how many awesome--
Travis: How long does it usually take the woman in the back to tie her boot?
Marisha: I'm multi-tasking.
Matt: No, that's the question we end it on. That's the question.
Marisha: I've just been tightening my laces while I've been kicking it back here.
Zac: I'm gonna squeeze in here really quick. So I have some thank you's I wanna call out while you guys are here. I figured they'd appreciate me calling them out the most while you guys were on screen. 'Cause they like you guys for some reason.
All: Aw.
Zac: So these are all people that have sent us stuff off Amazon, to help make the studio better. So Danielle Denny.
Ashley: Thanks Danielle!
Matt: Danielle, thank you so much Danielle.
Zac: Bradley Dealman?
Marisha: Dalman.
Matt: Bradley Dalman.
Liam: Do we know what they sent us? Can you tell us some of the things they sent?
Zac: I have, I-- Well I mean they're like-- new microphones for that station and lights.
Marisha: That's amazing.
Zac: Wii controllers.
Matt: Brad, thank you, that's amazing.
Zac: And other stuff for tech we needed that we didn't have. Shane and Russell said thanks for all your hard work, and everything you are doing.
Matt: Aw. Thank you Shane!
Zac: Ty Odlinger.
Ashley: Ty!
Zac: Timothy B. Hudson.
Ashley: Timothy!
Zac: Timothy B. Hudson, he went nuts.
Matt: Timothy!
Taliesin: Triple threat.
Zac: Kathel T. Stockdale.
Ashley: Cool name, Kathel.
Zac: Yeah, that's rad. Luis Archuletta.
Matt: Luis Archeletta!
Ashley: Luis!
Zac: Steve Chua.
Matt: Steve!
Zac: Here's a little something to help you guys out. Another one from Chua, here's a little something to help you guys out. And I know there's more coming in, this is what we've got so far. Thanks everybody.
Matt: That's so cool guys, thank you.
Zac: And they also have asked that a couple of you guys come on Honesty Hour sometime.
Liam: What is that?
Zac: It's a show I do on Monday nights, where it's 100% no-holds-barred. I will answer any question that they ask.
Travis: What?
Orion: I would love to do that.
Travis: Sounds like a horrifying idea.
Zac: Okay, they've asked specifically for Ashley, they've asked for Matt, and as for, actually I think everyone has been asked at one point in time. So I'll say maybe I'll have you guys once a month.
Ashley: When is Honesty Hour?
Zac: It's usually Monday nights from nine to, whenever the fuck. Like it went to 1:30AM the other night.
Crew: Isn't it really an Honesty Time?
Zac: Don't do it! It's only for subscribers. It's not that bad, because they ask really great questions, a lot of them have been about how have you gotten through certain aspects of depression, or what kind of thing--
Marisha: Oh that's good.
Zac: It's pretty inspirational.
Liam: How many times have you been hit in the nuts in your life?
Zac: I can say twice. And would probably explained how it happened, and what I did. It's just story time. Sometimes the questions get a little inappropriate.
Matt: That's okay.
Zac: That's fine.
Matt: But like for the most part, the audience here's been so awesome, they're all super intelligent with great questions. I'd be down, I'd totally be down.
Ashley: Wait, is this Noncompliant?
Zac: Yeah.
Matt: Oh, that's awesome. Yeah, I got the Noncompliant tattoo this week, actually.
Marisha: Oh yeah, I saw your picture.
Ashley: That's amazing.
Zac: We have a comic book show on Tuesday.
Travis: (air-horn sound)
Zac: Real talk with Zac. But thank you guys so much for doing this. The subscribers really wanted to do it, so hopefully you guys enjoyed as well. And we will come back next week.
Travis: Yeah!
Ashley: Yay!
Zac: Tomorrow, if you guys are at Wonder Con, are any of you guys gonna be at Wonder Con?
Taliesin: Saturday.
Marisha: I don't know, maybe.
Orion: I'll be there Saturday.
Matt: I'm sadly not gonna be there.
Zac: I will be there tomorrow from 12:30 to one, for a meet and greet, which I'm going to pretend is an autograph signing, and I'm going to bring my own pictures.
Matt: Yeah!
Zac: We're gonna have fun with it. Going in costume. Becca and I are going in costume, and then Hector and Ify will be at four. And then Hector and Ify are doing a Q and A, or no, a trivia game that night on the stage for Geek & Sundry and stuff like that. So Geek & Sundry will be there, you guys should stop by.
Liam: Thanks for all those greater than three's, guys.
Matt: Less than three's.
Taliesin: Greater than three, too.
Zac: The computer, the story behind that, is during the charity drive, we had a robot read off all the donation messages. And the robot would say, and when they made a heart, it would say, "we less than three."
Matt: So beautiful.
Zac: So we turned that into a thing.
Liam: (robot voice) We less than three you.
Matt: It fucks me up every time you do that.
Zac: Cool. Thanks guys!
Taliesin: Forgot you speak-and-spell.
Zac: Thank you so much.
Marisha: Bye.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, and welcome to this evening's episode of Critical Role! We'll be with you in just a second. Unfortunately we're down a Travis Willingham tonight, but in Grog's stead we have the rest of the party venturing forth into the Emberhold after just recently discovering Lady Kima. We shall see what happens very shortly, but in the meantime, let's go ahead and give you guys some character backstory. [dramatic music]
Ashley: Pike grew up on the outskirts of town, near the Bramblewood. Her ancestors were a family of deep gnomes with quite an unfavorable reputation. Thievery, destruction, and trickery left them with the curse of the last name Trickfoot. Sarenrae, the goddess of healing and redemption, had other plans for Pike's great-great-grandfather Wilhand, who left his family at a young age after a dream, a dream that changed the course of the Trickfoot family. Wilhand devoted his life to Sarenrae, and pledged from then on that him and his family would live a life of service and devotion. As a child, Pike seemed to have an affinity to heal. Whether it was animals, people, or even flowers, she felt she had a purpose in making things whole that had once been broken. She studied and learned the ways to heal through divine magic. She lived a peaceful life, quiet and simple, until one day Wilhand was captured and almost killed by a group of goliath barbarians. One of the goliaths took a stand against the murder of the innocent gnome, and he himself was beaten, bloodied, and left for dead, abandoned by his herd. Wilhand went to Pike for help. She prayed and healed this barbarian as best she could, bringing him back to life. When he awoke, she discovered his name was Grog Strongjaw. After that, they were the best of friends, a rather unlikely pair. Little did she know that in a few years' time Grog would soon return the favor and bring her back from the clutches of death. (roaring, crunch) After being killed in battle, Pike felt angry. She wanted to be stronger so that it would never happen again. She spent four months at sea, training with the men and women aboard a ship called the Broken Howl. Gripping her holy symbol in one hand, and her morningstar in the other, this time, Pike is ready.
Travis: Right, listen up! If you have ale, then you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw. A goliath of towering height and size, this barbarian has an appetite for the two great loves in his life: combat, women, and ale. Wait... Easily the brains of the group, Grog is often consulted for his vast knowledge of shapes, colors, and shiny things. Also ale. In his early years, armed with his two-handed great axe, Grog often enjoyed proving his might amongst the ranks of his family's wandering herd. But after coming upon an unsuspecting elderly gnome in the woods, he objected to the killing of such an innocent life. A creature of impulse, Grog felt only pity for this terrified little thing. His disobedience cost him dearly. Beaten bloody and banished by the herd leader, his uncle Kevdak, Grog was abandoned and left to die. Exiled from his herd, it was then that the relative of the very gnome he fought to save, saved him. It was the kindness of a gnome cleric named Pike that healed Grog, bringing him back from death's edge. And they have remained close friends ever since. Most nights, Grog can be found challenging entire taverns to wrestling matches! Or accompanying Scanlan to the nearest house where you pay for lady favors. Also ale.
Marisha: A first impression of Keyleth would leave you with little information on the half-elven druid. You might even think that her social awkwardness due to her sheltered upbringing is kind of sweet. Of course, it would be unwise to underestimate her based on first impressions. Under that unintimidating petite frame is a vicious beast waiting to be unleashed, whose natural powers have made even the fiercest of champions pee their pants. Literally. (laughs) Born to the Air tribe of the Ashari people, Keyleth was raised with a deep love of nature and the elemental magics. It is her people's inherent duty to protect the delicate areas in Tal'Dorei, where the four elemental planes begin to bleed with this realm. Since she was a little girl, she had quite a knack for air manipulation and beast-shaping abilities. Well, if you consider kittens and flying squirrels to be little beasts. Which, I do. Anyways, it wasn't long before the headmaster of the tribe, her father, Korren, realized her true prodigious abilities and she was inveterated to succeed him as the next headmaster. Just like that, her jovial childhood was stripped and replaced with endless spell memorization, teachings from ancient traditions, and exceedingly high expectations. Every druid leader to be must embark on a journey to seek out the sister tribes in order to introduce and establish respect amongst the fellow headmasters. They call this the Aramente, or Noble Odyssey. When her father felt she was ready, he set her on the path to truly discovering herself, not knowing when, or if she will ever return. As she hiked down the mountain towards Stillben, she meditated on the task ahead. Part of the Aramente is proving yourself a strong warrior, a valiant protector, and a wise and compassionate leader. With this knowledge, one thought plays in repeat in her mind: is she even worthy?
Taliesin: Percy was the third of seven children, born to a noble family who lived far to the north, in the ancient castle of Whitestone. With so many siblings to share the burdens of lordship, Percy turned his attentions to the sciences, engineering and naturalism. One day, a mysterious couple, named Lord and Lady Briarwood, came to court. During a feast held in their honor, the Briarwoods violently took control of the castle, killing or imprisoning everyone who would stand in their way. Percy awoke chained in the dungeon, only to be freed by his younger sister. Together they fled, chased by the Briarwoods' men. As they ran, Percy's sister took several arrows to the chest and fell. Percy kept running, eventually jumping into a freezing river and floating unconscious to freedom. He did not remember waking up on a fishing boat. He barely remembered the next two years, as he slowly made his way as far south as possible. Then, one night, Percy had a dream. A roaring cloud of smoke offered him vengeance against those who destroyed his family. When he awoke, Percy began to design his first gun. (gunshot)
Sam: Oh, you haven't heard of Scanlan Shorthalt? Well, gird your loins, ladies, because he has his eye on you. A talented musician, master of disguise, and dashingly handsome in his own mind, Scanlan sings songs almost as much as he sings his own praises. Born a poor gnome, Scanlan used his endless charm and soaring tenor voice to croon for coin and support his single mother. One day he was discovered by a half-orc promoter, and joined Dr. Dranzel's Spectacular Traveling Troupe where he learned the ways of the world, and honed his skills as a bard extraordinaire. A loner much of his life, Scanlan has never quite come to terms with the violent death of his mother at the hands of a goblin invasion. While his years on the road provided many, shall we say, educational experiences with the opposite sex, deep down Scanlan yearns for the one thing he's never known: the true love of a fellow gnome. Still, Scanlan considers himself a lover first, performer second, and fighter distant third. On the battlefield, he'll support his allies, but rarely draws blood unless it's to protect fellow gnome, Pike. Count on Scanlan for a hearty laugh, a rollicking song, and a twinkle in his eye that melts hearts and makes the females swoon.
Orion: Greetings and salutations. I am Tiberius Stormwind. I hail from a town called Ty'rex, located in the heart of Draconia, born from a politically respected family. At the age of 15, I succeeded in passing the Sorcerer's Rite, showing prodigy-like control of my magic. The judges and the Draconian High Council were amazed at how powerful my spells were for how long I had been training. At 20 years old, I was the youngest appointed member of the Magic Guild in Draconian history. For the next few years, I almost went mad from the malaise of being a guild member, as it's rather boring. However, one day I happened upon a chamber, unused for quite some time. In the room were stacks of books and maps of the surrounding cities and areas around the known world. For months I would frequent the chamber, and learned of artifacts from legend. After a long period of research, I made a list of artifacts that caught my eye. I brought these findings to the high council and was told that all of the information in the chamber I had stumbled upon was either believed to be fiction, or unsolvable mysteries, and hence were lost forever. I found those answers to be unacceptable. A year later I devised a ruse and managed to convince the city council to lend support in me leaving Draconia on a mission of peace and diplomacy for the surrounding kingdoms, going from town to town and making friends and allies, in and for the name of Draconia. Being a red dragonborn, I had quite the task on my hands in that respect, but it was exactly what I needed, so I could explore the world and find these artifacts, as I felt the truth was out there. Some may describe me as buffoonish, but I say poppycock to all that. I am much sharper than most give me credit for. I just don't pay attention to things sometimes. I've also been known to be rather cunning, loyal, happy-go-lucky, and well, dangerous. I can't help but show my true scales every now and then. But overall, I think I'm quite friendly for a dragonborn.
Liam: Never entirely welcome in the company of elves or men, Vax'ildan learned at a young age to skip past formality, preferring instead to invite himself in your door. Along with twin sister Vex'ahlia, Vax was born by a chance encounter between elven royalty and human peasantry. Raised by their mother in their early years, the twins were eventually sent off to their father in the elven capital of Syngorn, but their cool reception among the elves there never warmed, and their time in the capital didn't last. The siblings stole away one autumn night and set out on the open road. After a few years of wandering, they eventually decided to return to their mother, and journeyed back to the lands of their youth. But instead of finding their childhood home, they returned to a pile of rubble. Their mother was gone, their home burned to ash. Pressing the townspeople for answers, they learned of the day the dragon came. With their ties all severed, Vax'ildan and his sister set out to find their fortune together in Tal'Dorei. An outsider since birth, Vax quickly learned to solve life's challenges in his own particular way, often by sidestepping them entirely. And when his knack for circumventing adversity isn't enough, the way of blades the elves schooled him in more than makes up the difference.
Laura: Like so many half-elves, Vex'ahlia has spent most of her life suffering the cool reception of a people who don't fully accept her. Born of a human mother and an elven father who only later in life took an interest in their existence, Vex'ahlia and her twin brother Vax'ildan quickly realized the only people they could truly rely on in this world were each other. It was at the age of ten when the two were taken from their mother, and brought to live in Syngorn, the isolated elven city for which their father was an ambassador. He quietly took them in, but always kept an icy distance, and after too many years of disdainful looks, the pair decided to leave his indifference behind, and set out on their own. Vax took to the cities, stealing small trinkets and learning the ways of the thief, while Vex kept to the woods. She preferred the isolation. Always the keen observer, she learned to hunt and to track, to spy and to shoot. And through a series of fateful events, earned herself a companion in the form of a bear, her own stolen Trinket, to fight alongside her and protect her fiercely. Also, he is adorable, and gives expert massages. [dramatic music]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome back to the next episode of Critical Role. We unfortunately are down one Grog this evening, as I mentioned before.
All: (distressed noises)
Matt: We are missing him terribly. We'll see what terrors will transpire in his absence. However, though! We do have some fun things to announce real fast: first off, we're still giving away promo kits for every 50 subscribers we get, so we'll be having those randomly drawn from everyone in the chat room every time 50 subscribers are joined to the channel, I guess you would say. Also, every ten subscribers we're giving away Steam keys for different games, so also cool giveaways, which is kind of fun. I want to take a moment also to mention our... charity, there, that's the word I was looking for, it's been a long day. (laughter)
Matt: Our charity, 826LA, which we're putting up links in the chat room for you guys if you're able to donate. It's a fantastic program that tutors children, helps with creative writing and general literacy skills. It's a wonderful program, you can look it up at 826LA, you should Google it, find the website, it has all the information you need. It's a really great charity and we're still pushing that through our show every week, so thank you for all who have donated, and if you have the opportunity to, I highly recommend it. Also! I wanted to let you guys know we have-- Marisha wants to mention a cool sponsor tonight or at least a promotional push we're pushing.
Marisha: Yes! Yes! Friends of the show, Espionage Cosmetics, hooked us all up with some awesome nerdy manicures. We'll tweet pictures of our nails, so yes, we're all wearing awesome nails and we're going to be doing a giveaway from Espionage. Their tabletop bath bombs, which are awesome d20s--
Matt: d10s, technically.
Marisha: Oh, d10s-- No, there's a d20! There's a d10 and there's a percentile die!
Matt: No, you're right! I saw the wrong side of it, my apologies. Forget I said anything.
Marisha: So yes, and we'll probably also go ahead and throw in a Critical Role signed picture as well with this. What you have to do is tweet @EspionageMakeup, is their twitter, @EspionageMakeup and #CriticalRole, and tell them what your favorite character is from Critical Role and who your favorite nail wraps are today and then we'll pick at half-time a winner.
Matt: Indeed. So fantastic. I may have some more stuff down the road we'll be able to talk about but in the meantime, let's go ahead and get everyone caught up to speed with what has transpired recently on Critical Role. So the party, to give you a quick overview for those who have just joined us, they were given a mission to seek out a female halfling paladin named Lady Kima of Vord, who had been missing, going on a vision quest, apparently seeking some deep, dark evil that had begun to simmer and grow beneath the dwarven city of Kraghammer. The party managed to make their way to the city, delve deep within its caverns to discover an entire series of caves, and what eventually led to the Underdark itself. A subterranean landscape of terror and darkness. After a series of battles with some duergar, which are kinda ashy-skinned evil dwarven offshoot people, characters, and a few brushes with some illithids or mind flayer creatures, they managed to befriend one, or I should say, ally with one named Clarota. Who has been traveling with them, who has apparently been kicked away from his society and wishes reentry to save them from the kind of ominous presence of this unseen, barely spoken entity called K'vorn. K'varn. (laughter)
Matt: Long day. Long day. So upon traveling deep into the recesses--
Sam: Don't worry Matt, you just have to talk for three straight hours.
Matt: (laughs) I know. I know. (laughter)
Marisha: Your day is just getting started.
Matt: I know. But yes, so they have now, after a series of battles, found their way into the magma-covered, kind of obsidian jagged caverns where the Emberhold, the duergar fortress currently resides, where they believe Lady Kima was. Upon finding a way in, unfortunately announcing their presence to the fortress itself, they managed to find Lady Kima in a torture chamber beneath Emberhold, save her, slay her oppressor, and now they have, after a tenuous alliance was made-- as Lady Kima and their mind-flayer friend Clarota are very much at odds-- a very tenuous alliance was forged. And they now journey back up to the main basement floor, or main base floor of the Emberhold proper. And that's where we left off last time. So, hope you can absorb all that, guys. (laughs)
Sam: We are inside this fortress.
Matt: Correct.
Sam: We are moving towards the armory. We're trying to find the armory or something, is that right?
Matt: You're trying to find, essentially-- Lady Kima has mentioned she wants to find the rest of her equipment that she says is either in an armory, or she mentioned a vault. And also she knows-- she mentioned something about vengeance to those who run the keep. So she stormed up.
Laura: We're following her, right?
Matt: You've followed her back into the base floor of the Emberhold itself. You all currently are now back kinda where you started after you snuck into the side passage of the Emberhold.
Laura: And she said she would lead the way to the vault?
Sam: Can we be quiet for a second and see if there's any footsteps around us or guards marching around? Are we in immediate peril or do we have a second?
Matt: Certainly. Everyone go ahead and make an immediate perception roll.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: So fast!
Marisha: Website went live, if you want to announce that now or later.
Matt: Later. Two?
Laura: No, 22! (laughs)
Liam: 28.
Ashley: 13.
Taliesin: 24.
Orion: Fail.
Sam: Ten. (laughs)
Matt: That's a fail! All right, so-- You've got to be ready!
Marisha: 27!
Matt: Okay. (laughter)
Sam: I'm sure he'll give you half of that.
Matt: Nearly at the ready. All right, so as you all take a moment and kind of steel yourselves, your ears perk up and you can hear what sounds like echoes of distant footsteps down hallways, far out of sight. You hear some movement across the stone ceiling above you that eventually comes to a stop. And you wait for about a minute, and the entire place is now in a very eerie silence.
Liam: They know we're here, still.
Laura: But they don't know where we are.
Liam: No.
Orion: Maybe they went to sleep?
Taliesin: Lady Kima, do you remember where the vault is? Do you remember how we can get back there?
Matt: Kima turns to you, her eyes still peering back, and she's creeping towards the edge of the hallway. She looks back at you, briefly, and says, "I've only seen half of this stronghold before they captured me. As far as I know, probably somewhere on the second floor."
Laura: What floor are we on now?
Matt: "The ground floor."
Liam: The ground floor.
Laura: Right, cool.
Ashley: So it's just one up? (laughter)
Matt: "Apparently."
Liam: Were there stairs-- When we went down that set of stairs there, was there also stairs going up right there, or stairs going up?
Matt: There were stairs-- Right there? No. There were stairs going up in the first room you entered.
Laura: Oh, right! So we could go back in the little storage room.
Liam: We could.
Laura: And go up.
Liam: We should just spend the next three hours in the storage room.
Laura: Let's go in the storage room and go up.
Liam: Lady Kima, allow me to take a peek around the corner, see what's going on. So I'm gonna go stealth.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and roll stealth.
Liam: And inch past her. That's good. 29.
Matt: 29? All right. She begrudgingly steps back. You can see there's that eagerness to get in some sort of a fray or to feel somebody else bash along the side of this greatsword that she borrowed from you guys. She lets you pass. You creep up along the edge. As you do, you see-- back here there is, in the middle of this hallway, a series of doorways, and what looks to be a large room in the center of the chamber where two duergar currently stand.
Liam: I turn back to the group.
Taliesin: (whispers) How about the other way?
Sam: Why don't we just kill them?
Liam: Isn't that a corner-- a dead-on corner right there?
Matt: This is another hallway.
Liam: Another hallway.
Sam: Let's go kill the duergar.
Laura: How dark is it in here? Is it like--
Matt: No. It's pretty dark in here. Like, with low light vision, you're able to see maybe a good 30 to 40 feet ahead of you. There are a few of those red crystal clusters that give off a little bit of light, incrementally, but duergar themselves, you've gotten to the point where you see they like it very, very dark. They actually aren't needing light. This is more of a courtesy to guests they may have.
Laura: So potentially, brother, we could take them both out if you throw your knife and I do an arrow.
Orion: Wait, didn't we see further past that, 'cause that's where Grog did the-- (crushing noise)
Sam: No, this is the area that we haven't been in yet.
Liam: I just put up a hand, and then slip around this direction and slip down this second hallway that you revealed.
Matt: All right. As you step past, you do see, this room here is a little ajar; the inside looks to be a storage room. There's just a series of boxes, barrels, and various--
Laura: (gasps) Maybe you can put yourself in a box and walk around.
Marisha: (gasps) Yes! Metal Gear Solid it!
Liam: I continue to creep away from my sister, specifically.
Matt: All right, you glare down the side of this hallway. It leads to two other smaller rooms down the way, with a split towards the back end. There does not appear to be anybody visible in that hall.
Liam: All right, I got this, I'm going to keep going.
Sam: Wait, what about us!?
Laura: Why are you doing this?
Matt: All right, so you go past this way.
Sam: Jesus. Two duergar, we can take them out in a second!
Matt: Now this hallway, there appears to be an opening to this room, no doorway.
Laura: Everybody wait while my brother goes on a field trip.
Matt: And this additional room, you do not currently see an entrance.
Liam: An opening that's not a doorway? Or--
Matt: I mean, there isn't a door in the way, it's just an opening.
Liam: The door is open. All right, so I'm going to press against the wall, up to the edge, wait for five seconds, see if I can hear anything, and then if not, curve around and peek in.
Matt: Perception roll.
Liam: 20.
Matt: 20. You take a moment and listen. You hear what sounds like a light crackling of some sort of a fire? And the occasional dull ring of metal being hit against metal.
Sam: What was it? Metal against metal?
Liam: Okay, I'm going to get low to the ground, and peek in the door.
Matt: All right. Peeking through, you do see, indeed, it is some sort of a smithy, with two kilns, or two anvils, set up, a work table in the center, and there is one lone duergar that, apparently, in the middle of his work, has not been paying attention to any of the ruckus going on around, and is just in the middle of hitting some sort of long, thick piece of black iron, and it's just, (ting ting), sweat dripping down the front of his brow, the room itself is-- even against the corner of the doorway, you can tell the temperature is a lot warmer on the inside.
Liam: And his back is to me, currently?
Matt: It's kinda to the side to you. He's currently looking-- working out the anvil, banging down.
Liam: So this way?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Oh, but I see the door on the other side, so I take the earring--
Sam: Oh, why don't you just keep going forever?
Liam: -- take the earring and I whisper to my sister, (whispers) follow along.
Laura: Oh. I've been invited on the field trip, guys!
Sam: Just you?
Laura: Just me!
Sam: Come on!
Laura: Who else can stealth?
Marisha: I'm a stealthy panther right now.
Laura: Do you wanna be something and pop in my pocket? (laughs) That sounded wrong.
Matt: You haven't had a short rest yet, and you do--
Marisha: (clears throat) I was gonna say, I'm still a cat form. But I can accompany you.
Laura: I should not go with you, I can't stealth for shit right now. (laughter)
Laura: I rolled a seven.
Liam: (whispers) Send Scanlan up.
Laura: (whispers) Scanlan.
Sam: Huh, what?
Laura: My brother's calling for you.
Matt: You feel the oppressive force of Clarota's voice in your heads simultaneously say, "I can also accompany."
Ashley: Good plan. Good plan, Clarota.
Sam: All right. I'll step ahead and go invisible.
Matt: All right, so mark off your next Invisibility spell. As you vanish, Clarota also kind of waves his hand for a moment, and his image disappears the same way Scanlan's did.
Sam: Ooh! He does that too?
Matt: Apparently.
Laura: What did he do?
Sam: He went invisible! (sings) We're walking down a hall, nobody's watching us. (laughter)
Matt: As you're humming to yourself--
Sam: Oh no!
Matt: You make your way down and eventually towards the back of where Vax is pressed against the--
Liam: I can feel Scanlan's flute pressing into my buttocks.
Sam: That's not my flute! (laughter)
Liam: So I turn to them, and then I start-- I pass the door.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I'm gonna go around the corner to that other door.
Matt: All right.
Liam: And now I'm going to stab the duergar in the neck.
Matt: All right! Go ahead and roll for an attack!
Liam: Natural 20, natural 20! (cheering)
Matt: That's how you start the game.
Marisha: It's a good day! I feel like it's gonna be a good day.
Matt: All righty. So go ahead and roll damage. This is a sneak attack, as he didn't-- it was not aware you were there.
Liam: I'll use my keen dagger, I think. Four plus seven is-- This is a pencil, right? Okay, 11. Where-- how do you make it work? 11.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Eight, 13--
Sam: Get him in the neck so he can't yell.
Liam: Ooh. 66.
Matt: You don't multiply the modifier. The modifier goes on at the end. So it's the dice roll plus your sneak attack, multiplied by two, and then the dex modifier at the end.
Marisha: That's a lot!
Liam: Okay.
Matt: Plus seven, I think, right at the end.
Liam: Yeah, that's right. So it's the damage plus the sneak attack, double that--
Matt: And then add the plus seven at the end.
Laura: That's 28 times two plus seven.
Liam: 26.
Matt: Splitting hairs here! That's enough. So.
Liam: One plus two plus two plus one.
Matt: So you hear this, 'Tink! Tink! Tink!' (pause) That's it. Without even a guttural noise, the dagger buries itself in the base of his skull. You see him just (grunts) and slump down to the ground.
Liam: I catch the hammer and I start going 'Tink! Tink! Tink!' And wave the two invisible beings into the room.
Ashley: Hey! What happened in there?
Sam: We're here! We're ready to fight. What do you need us to do?
Matt: Kima at this point-- You can see her hand kind of tensing around the sword as she looks back at Grog, whose hands are also wringing his greataxe. "I want to kill something!" She kind of backs off to the side and sees the other duergar that are there.
Ashley: (Grog voice) I want to rage!
Matt: And she's going to go ahead and run around.
Liam: Don't waste my natural 20, Kima. Come on!
Laura: Man, you can't control Kima!
Marisha: This is why we don't have AI in the party, guys. You can't control the AI.
Matt: You know you guys are telling a very, very angry woman right now to be patient. Doesn't seem to make a ruckus.
Laura: Can I sneak up to the corner at least, so I can be ready to attack those two bastards?
Matt: Over to here? All righty. Trinket, who hasn't seen you in a while, is sticking to your back.
Laura: I sit there and I kind of pet him as I look around the corner.
Matt: Okay. Trinket is enjoying the petting. All right, so that duergar's down, the current armory section appears to be completely open and at your disposal. There are a series of partially made weapons kind of scattered in a pile. There are some ingots, and even some raw iron material in the far corner. Other than that, it just looks like your general smithing workshop.
Sam: Is Kima with us now?
Matt: Kima is currently looking around this section with you guys.
Sam: Kima, do you see any of your equipment here that you wanted?
Matt: She glances around, goes and move some of the piles by, turning over the room as quietly as she can-- not as quietly as you'd like-- but quiet enough. "No. Nothing's here."
Sam: Can't you just take one of these things and call it a day? (laughter)
Matt: She glares in the direction of your voice.
Sam: I'm invisible, I--
Matt: "This will do me just fine for now!"
Sam: Oh!
Matt: "Right. Let's keep looking." She leaves the room. She starts heading down this way--
Liam: All right, I'm following after her, tiptoeing after her.
Laura: We should go after her. 'Cause we're all gonna split up.
Liam: Yeah, I speak into my earring and say zubba zubba zubba zubba.
Laura: Let's all go in that back way and see if we can stealth around.
Matt: Okay. For everyone else, stealth check.
Taliesin: Oh boy.
Ashley: Here we go!
Orion: Yes! Natural 20!
Matt: Disadvantage on you, Pike, because of your heavy armor.
Ashley: So that means I roll twice?
Matt: Roll twice, take the lower.
Ashley: I take the lower one.
Orion: Now as that happens, I want to cast Mage Hand and I want to cast Light on it, and I want to slowly have it drift down there.
Matt: They're both concentration spells. You can have one or the other.
Orion: Dagnabbit.
Matt: Mage Hand isn't an actual object, unfortunately.
Orion: Dagnabbit. Okay, fine. Instead I cast Prestidigitation and I make a little glowy orb, and it's a little flickery, and I cast-- I think I can maybe try, what, 15 feet?
Matt: Okay. And where are you casting it? Just in the middle of this hallway here?
Orion: No. To my left.
Matt: Here?
Sam: He wants to see in the dark place.
Orion: I wanna see in the dark place.
Matt: There is no entrance to this room currently from what you can see. It's just a wall. There is a door on the opposite side.
Sam: Now it's a well-lit wall.
Orion: Hm. All right, well, I follow after the bear. (laughter)
Matt: All right, so what was your stealth roll?
Laura: Oh, it was 17.
Matt: 17. Roll for Trinket.
Laura: Oh gosh.
Sam: (bear noises)
Laura: I thought he just got what I got. Crap.
Sam: Not good.
Laura: What do I add to it?
Sam: Nothing.
Matt: Add his dex modifier. Trinket's dex modifier.
Laura: Okay, hold on. Hold on. Oh, good.
Liam: 11.
Laura: 11.
Matt: All right, as you guys are making your way down the hallway, slowly--
Laura: I kinda clamp my hand over his mouth and tell him to shush.
Matt: You guys make your way down here. One of the duergar glances over--
Sam: Oh boy.
Matt: -- utters something to the friend at his side and he goes--
Liam: I heard the bear and I start sliding my back down along the wall.
Laura: Oh crap. I turn around and notch my arrow for them.
Matt: Okay, Trinket moves past
Taliesin: I walk up to the very, very edge of the hallway.
Liam: And I'm stabbing! Stabbing, stabbing! Stabbing.
Orion: Matthew, behind the bear.
Matt: You move behind the bear?
Orion: Yes.
Matt: You are right there and they both see you
Orion: No, no, the other bear. I mean, the other side of the bear.
Matt: As you're walking behind Trinket, all this transpires simultaneously. Right. And they saw the bear and then saw something move behind it. Their attention was got. They see you and they start walking towards--
Liam: Stabbing duergars, stabbing duergars.
Matt: However, as they pass there, you get one shot at this guy as he passes past you. Go ahead and make your attack.
Orion: I wave at them.
Matt: Okay. (laughs) Tiberius waves at them.
Marisha: I go ahead and move up next to Percy.
Orion: Hello. I don't think they're our friends.
Matt: Unfortunately, the space is a little limited for your size. You have to wait for the rest of them to let you by.
Marisha: Oh, but Grog's behind me. He's not here, right? Where's Grog?
Matt: You're a big cat right now.
Marisha: I'm a big kitty.
Liam: I rolled a 15.
Matt: 15? 15 does barely hit.
Liam: Okay, so same keen dagger.
Matt: As you go ahead, move around the corner and fire. Two arrows?
Laura: 17.
Matt: All right. Second one? Same guy or different targets?
Laura: Same target. He's right in front. That one hits too, that's 19.
Matt: Both hit, go ahead and roll damage on both.
Liam: 32 for me.
Matt: Okay. So as you watch them both walk past you, one of them continues past with his hammer out, rushing towards whatever he sees moving at the end of the hallway, probably Tiberius after Trinket. The next one that comes past you, you reach around and just take your dagger and swing it across the back of his neck area. You manage to sever the base of the spine and he just crumples into a pile in front of you. The other one-- Damage?
Laura: 22 with the two arrows. Nine and 13.
Matt: Both arrows impact his chest. The duergar steps back for a second, surprised by the moment, looks really furious and begins to step forward, his size enlarging.
Taliesin: I knock him right in the face with the butt of my gun as he rounds the corner.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and make a stealth check to see whether or not he sees you.
Taliesin: I can't use my previous stealth roll?
Matt: Not for this point. This is an active combat.
Taliesin: Damn it. Eight.
Matt: Okay. So you still get the attack, but you don't have advantage, 'cause he's aware you're there. As he's running past you, he glances and sees you in the corner of his eye and is preparing for the blows. Go ahead and roll your attack.
Taliesin: What do I add to this, by the way? I've never done a physical attack.
Matt: You're hitting it with the blunt. Go ahead and roll a d20 and add your strength modifier and four.
Taliesin: All right. Natural 20! (cheering)
Marisha: Look, it's flashing!
Taliesin: It flashes if I hit a natural 20.
Matt: All right, so go ahead and roll damage. It is a 1d4 plus your strength modifier.
Taliesin: So that would be 2d4 plus my strength modifier, because it's a natural 20.
Matt: Correct, yes.
Taliesin: That's six points of damage.
Matt: Well, it's five on there, right?
Taliesin: My strength modifier is one.
Matt: Okay, so that's five times two is ten plus one. 11 points of damage.
Taliesin: 11 points of damage.
Matt: Which will do it. As the duergar sees you, is rushing past with his hammer, about to fall back and swing at you, you rush out from behind the corner with the blunt end of your weapon and just whack him in the side of the temple.
Sam: Girly scream.
Orion: What was that?
Taliesin: (whispers) We're good, we're good.
Matt: Unconscious on the ground. Alive but unconscious.
Ashley: He's not dead? Can I-- so he's at a disadvantage, basically?
Matt: He's incapacitated.
Ashley: So can I go up to him and slit his throat with my mace of disruption? To make sure he's dead?
Matt: If you'd like to?
Ashley: Yes, I want to.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: Is that really bad, though?
Matt: Pike walks up and grabs the back of the duergar's hair, holds it back and using the jagged edge of her mace of disruption, tears open the throat of the duergar, which then spills all this blackish ichor across the ground.
Liam: She went renegade, folks. She's gone renegade.
Ashley: I just wanted to make sure he didn't come after us.
Matt: Grog looks impressed but also slightly worried as the man who grew up alongside you. All right, so that happened.
Liam: And then she says, okay, I'm gonna dismember the body. Hold on. (laughter)
Laura: Torture weapons.
Sam: Because I'm invisible in the thing with Lady Kima, I get up on a stool to see if I can catch some cleavage. (laughter)
Sam: Just peek over, peek in.
Matt: The leather armor that she wore is a full torso-covering leather armor piece, I apologize.
Sam: (sighs) I give up.
Matt: Sorry, Scanlan. She is-- Yeah, which by the way, I mean, it's not just so much the fact that Pike did it, it's the fact that Pike did it by running a jagged, blade-edged mace across someone's throat. It was less of a slice and more of a--
Ashley: Is Sarenrae gonna get really mad at me?
Matt: We'll see.
Ashley: They're really bad! If they're really bad guys, they were super bad. The duergar are so bad. She'd probably be happy--
Orion: Right, Pike, but man, that was rough.
Matt: We'll find out.
Taliesin: He had a little duergar back at home.
Matt: So, given this case, now the rest of the party is able to move forward. This hallway now, you can only see about that far down with the current light source. You can see Kima is now moving across--
Sam: Aw, she's just going?
Laura: Go listen-- aw, she's still going that direction?
Liam: All right. I'm tiptoe-jogging behind Kima.
Marisha: Can we do something to slow her down?
Sam: I can stop her if you want?
Marisha: Well, I mean, can we-- I mean, we don't wanna stop her I just wanna be like, hey, slow, girl.
Laura: She's-- you know what? I bet she's pretty noisy too!
Matt: She's wearing leather armor, she's not very noisy right now.
Liam: I carefully place a hand on Kima's shoulder, and do a little, sort of, curtsy motion. Allow me, I can--
Matt: Okay, as you do so she kinda stops and looks back over her shoulder and gives a begrudging nod. But you can see she's-- there's shaking, her hand holding the greatsword is currently shaking with rage.
Liam: I say-- (silent) Two words, three syllables. (laughter)
Matt: All right, so. Coasting down this hallway. It leads down to an open doorway and a closed doorway immediately to your right. And then the room to-- actually, the doorway's to your left, and to the right you see another wall to another room that you don't have a doorway currently available.
Liam: There's a door to my left and a door straight ahead, right?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: Okay, I inch up to the closed door on the left and place my ear to the door and listen.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and make a perception check.
Liam: Yeah, natural 20.
Marisha: What?!
Ashley: Come on!
Sam: Yeah. It's gonna be one of those nights.
Laura: I need that one! Oh my goodness.
Taliesin: Don't. Jinx it.
Matt: I'm gon' kill all you.
Laura: No! (laughter)
Matt: You put your ear to the side, and you hear nothing.
Liam: Okay. Do I sense any kind of-- I'm checking for traps on the door.
Matt: Okay. Yup.
Liam: Trap's perception, right? 26.
Matt: So the door itself does not appear to be trapped. It does appear to be locked, though.
Liam: All right, well, I pull out my picks. And I get a three on that, so--
Matt: That's okay. It's a really, really, really crappy lock.
Laura: Oh!
Matt: You notice that the door itself, it has a locking mechanism on it. It was kinda half-locked, and as you push, it opens up, into a commode.
Liam: Aw, yes!
Matt: There's nobody in there. It is a room with what looks almost like a bench, with a series of holes cut into the bench. It's a communal--
Liam: Well, I'm tempted to close the door for a moment, but I will press on instead.
Sam: Check for loot! (laughter)
Laura: Gross!
Liam: All right, so I'm going to inch towards that open door ahead of me, see what's around the corner.
Sam: I'm gonna follow-- I'm gonna inch up behind him as well. I'm still invisible, right? How long does that last?
Matt: Okay. It's concentration for quite some time, I believe.
Marisha: Actually--
Taliesin: Really quickly-- Oh, do you want to go first?
Marisha: No, you go.
Taliesin: Does anyone want to hide these bodies that we've just scattered about--
Laura: Yeah, that would be good!
Marisha: Inside the loo.
Taliesin: It's a perfect place for them to be interred.
Liam: So, Pike, hold still, please.
Ashley: I'm not moving!
Sam: Pike, eviscerate the bodies!
Marisha: Here, I'm gonna-- I'll walk over, in tiger form, and I just grab one by the scruff and start dragging it.
Matt: Grog helps out. You guys move the two bodies slowly over into the restroom area.
Marisha: Wait, we kinda prop them up to kinda like Weekend at Bernie's them, yeah, make them just look like they're, you know, passed out.
Matt: Okay, as they're both generally laying back, like they just got really drunk and barely found their way to the toilet.
Sam: And throats slit. (laughter)
Matt: It's really rough blockage.
Marisha: We take that one and kind of like lean him forward so you can't tell immediately.
Matt: Okay. All right, that's not a worry. You bring that up to that little area there. All right.
Liam: Well done, there.
Taliesin: Oh, thank you.
Matt: You guys move forward to that. Grog has come over here to be able to help. Now, looking down this hallway, here you can see--
Sam: Who we got, who we got?
Matt: This side opens up--
Laura: All I want to do is find the damn treasure room.
Matt: Looking into this room, it appears to be a barracks. A room that is just filled with different beds, all apparently empty.
Laura: Oh, they're up and looking for us.
Marisha: Apparently empty?
Matt: From what you can see.
Marisha: Can I use my keen smell to see if I smell any duergar in there?
Matt: Sure. So you slowly approach the door using your keen senses, which opens up this hallway a little bit visibly to you. You can see it goes back quite a bit. Sniffing this room, you can tell that there were duergar there recently. Apparently, at the moment, though, there is no immediate scent that matches a duergar. So the room, for the most part, has been completely evacuated.
Marisha: Okay, I kinda-- even though I'm not a dog, I'm a cat, I still kinda point. I go into pointer face. You know? Like--
Orion: Pointer face?
Marisha: You know, like a pointer.
Liam: Yeah, angling your nose forward, all right.
Sam: I think Keyleth has to pee. (laughter)
Sam: I never had a cat.
Liam: All right, I'm gonna start sliding down that hall there, ignoring this other passage, and get up to the door and again place my ear to it. Oh look, there's the front entrance.
Matt: As you look to your right, this is a large foyer-type area with two red carpets that are rolled on the sides of it that lead to the front of the main double-sided, large ten-foot-tall stone doors of the front of the fortress. To your left, there is a double wooden door, about eight feet tall each side, about five feet wide, that are currently closed, leading into whatever this large chamber is immediately to your left.
Sam: Can I hang a right and go down that other hall?
Taliesin: We should check out what's in that other hall.
Sam: Is there a door over there?
Matt: There are two doors, actually.
Sam: Closed?
Matt: Both closed.
Sam: I'm going to listen into those doors.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: Natural 17. (cheering)
Marisha: Gotta love that nat 17.
Matt: Listening in, you don't hear any noise.
Sam: That could mean nothing.
Liam: Are you at the double doors with me?
Sam: I'm to the right. I went the other way.
Liam: Okay. I'm going to listen at the big wooden doors, and I rolled, oh, not that great. 17.
Matt: All right. Listening in--
Orion: I scootch up ahead of Grog like, excuse me, excuse me.
Matt: As you listen back, there is no noise internally, except for the slight squeak as you put yourself against the door. It shifts a little bit, making no noticeable noise, but it appears the doors are unlocked, or there is no lock.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: You're not hearing anything from inside that one door you're at.
Sam: Wait, I just heard a noise?
Matt: No, you hear no noise coming from that room.
Sam: Oh, okay. Stinking Cloud, can I go through doors, or do I have to see what I'm casting it at?
Matt: You have to have sight, unfortunately. I mean, you could peek very low.
Sam: I'm going to open the door and look.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: 'Cause why not?
Matt: You open the door. It appears to be some sort of a guest bedroom. It's a singular bed that's in much better condition than the barracks, it's empty, it's well-made. It's more lit than the other rooms. It seems to be a room that's designed for either non-duergar riff-raff or general soldiers or guests or people that would come to the fortress to stay, so.
Sam: Okay.
Liam: I'm going to try to peer into the door, and I haven't talked about this before, but I'm wearing a cloak of elvenkind, which means I have advantage on stealth, and enemies have disadvantage on spotting me, so I'm going to lean my head in.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Do I need to roll for stealth or am I already stealthed?
Matt: For this, you're already stealthed. So as you glance inside the room, you see what appears to be a great hall of some kind. There are large wooden tables, there is a fire pit in the center that has a number of mostly burned wood that is mainly just small darkened embers with a little bit of glowing yellow and red to it. There are stools scattered about the room, you can see there are remnants of some of a meal that hasn't been fully cleaned up yet on some of the tables. But the room appears to be empty. You do see a slight glimmer across the way on one of the tables.
Liam: Oh, I'm going to go check it out.
Laura: (whispers) Get the sparkly thing.
Matt: All right. Everyone else, what are you doing?
Sam: Can I look around the guest bedroom? Just kinda snoop around up in things?
Laura: Can I ask him, I'm asking you what you see in there. What do you see in there?
Liam: I don't know yet, hold on
Laura: Is it sparkly?
Liam: I'm going to try to sense for traps in this room.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I'm going to snoop in the barracks.
Matt: Snoop in the barracks.
Liam: 14.
Orion: I'm going to make my way around all this riff-raff, uh, no, uh, yes.
Matt: You push your way through. "Excuse me, excuse me, pardon me." Pushing through everybody.
Orion: I'm going to go past where Vax is in the room down that hallway, then I'm going to do my Mage Hand thingy again. Oh, my Prestidigitation.
Matt: Down this hallway?
Orion: Mm-hm.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: Slowly, five feet by five feet.
Matt: All right. You see slowly, as you move down this hallway to check it out, a secondary set of barracks that are also apparently empty.
Laura: Where are they? The stairs are up in the storage room, man. That's where we just were.
Matt: You see a secondary commode that is open. And as you glance around the corner as the light passes by you see there are two duergar currently coming down the hallway this direction.
Marisha: Oh shit!
Orion: I just stop! And I creep back.
Matt: Okay. As you creep back, you hear footsteps coming your way quickly.
Liam: I'm going to the door, then, I can hear that. Inside the door, inside the door.
Matt: Oh, inside the door there?
Marisha: I'm going to stay actually right there, just right at the threshold.
Matt: Okay. The rest of you guys?
Laura: I mean, I'm so far away. I can try to get up there but--
Matt: You can glance, there's still a hallway around that way if you wanted to go around.
Laura: Okay. I'll go around the back way then.
Matt: Okay, so you move around--
Laura: With Trinket!
Matt: Trinket follows up behind. Makes your way up there. Scanlan, you staying in that room?
Sam: I'm taking a dump on the guest bed. (laughter)
Orion: They don't see me, right?
Laura: I like walk by the door and see that happening (laughter)
Sam: But also just covering it up with a blanket afterwards.
Matt: Okay, well, you're in mid-process, this is all happening very quickly.
Sam: Oh. (grunts)
Ashley: I'll go around back behind where Trinket and Vex just went.
Matt: Okay. Because of your little legs you get about that far. Your little legs carry you.
Sam: I'm invisible. It's poop. (laughter)
Matt: (sighs) (grunting and laughter)
Marisha: It's apparating poo.
Taliesin: I'm staying in the hallway,
Sam: Scanlan's just like, I hate this mission.
Matt: Okay, so. Tiberius, as you're backing up, both the duergar turn around immediately, seeing you, and rear back with javelins, throwing them directly at you.
Orion: Oh! I'll cast Blur instead.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll initiative real fast to see who gets off first what.
Orion: I'm not going to count that. Oh, I'll count that. 19. (laughter)
Matt: What, why didn't you count it?
Orion: Because it flew out of my hand, I didn't roll it.
Matt: Okay. All right.
Orion: Yeah. (laughter)
Orion: It's on camera, tell them to play back.
Matt: So you go ahead and cast Blur. You guys see as Tiberius comes running back, (startled sounds). He manages to cast a spell really fast as two javelins come flying towards him. His visible image begins to actually blur; the outline looks almost like there's two mirror images of Tiberius in the same place that are both shimmering and preventing them from actually telling where he's actually standing. The first javelin comes in at a 14.
Orion: Nope.
Matt: Second one comes in at a 17.
Orion: 17. Yes.
Matt: Oh sorry, no, it's a four, 'cause it has disadvantage. So both javelins just whish past. Looks like they pierced part of that kinda shimmering blurring form, but both just ricochet off the walls of stone and come clattering to the ground. Kinda near back where Kima and Grog are. They both step out of the way as they land.
Marisha: Ha-ha.
Matt: All right, so that brings us to-- that was your action. Who else wants to take the next action?
Liam: I'm gonna hold.
Laura: I can't see anything, can I, from where I am?
Matt: It's kinda dark, and you can see movement in the distance.
Laura: Can I hop on Trinket's back and see if I can see higher?
Matt: You can try. All right. So you hop on the back of Trinket, (laughs) looking over the top, and you know Grog is kinda blocking part of your view, but you can see, with your low-light vision, what looks to be Tiberius' form shimmering and two duergar-height individuals that are partially blocked by him. So they do have partial cover, or three-quarters cover. Do you have the feat that ignores that?
Laura: I don't know? I don't know.
Matt: (laughs) Because you don't know I'm going to say no.
Taliesin: It would be called Sharpshooter.
Matt: Yeah it would be called Sharpshooter, is the feat.
Laura: No, I don't have that.
Matt: Okay, yeah. So go ahead and roll for attack on one or both duergar, up to you.
Laura: 21.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And 23.
Matt: Okay. The 21 misses, the 23 hits. Because they have cover and because it's so dark it's difficult to make out their form, but you do manage to hit one with the arrow.
Laura: Okay. I Hunter's Mark him.
Matt: Okay. Next time, make sure you do that before you attack. Otherwise it won't count for the attack.
Laura: Okay. Okay. 13, uh, 12! (laughs) Math! Stay in school.
Matt: (laughs) All right. There you go. 12, then add your Hunter's Mark bonus to that as well.
Laura: Oh, good, one.
Matt: All right, gotcha. So one arrow sinks in the shoulder, but doesn't appear to be stopping his angry advance towards Tiberius. Let's see. You're staying where you are?
Liam: Waiting.
Matt: All right. You guys are actually kind of like pinched off in the hallway right here, so as you guys are all kind of--
Sam: (strained) Don't say 'pinched off' to me. (laughter)
Matt: -- as you're doing this, Tiberius, you're right there. The two duergar catch up to you and both, now that their javelins are out of their hands, pull out their hammers with their bonus actions and come down at you with an attack each.
Marisha: Run, Tiberius!
Matt: That's gonna be a six.
Orion: No.
Matt: And a 17.
Orion: 17 hits.
Matt: Okay, yeah, that Blur is saving you, man. All right, so as the one-- both the duergar are kinda like swelling with frustration, anger. It's an ability, you've now gotten to the point where you can see, these duergar can actually temporarily increase their form for stronger blows and attacks. Comes and strikes you for 12 points of bludgeoning damage as the hammer comes cracking down, finding purchase on your torso, and it kinda pushes you back a few inches. That's gonna bruise tomorrow morning.
Marisha: Can I do a combo move with Grog, assuming that he would agree with me that it's gonna be super cool?
Matt: He'd probably agree with you, what do you wanna do?
Marisha: Okay. (laughs) Thanks, Grog! So since Grog's kind of there-- Can we arrange like a fastball special, almost? So have him like kind of go up and crouch and I'm gonna bust out--
Matt: How are you going to communicate this to Grog?
Marisha: He-- with--
Liam: (meows) (laughter)
Matt: I'm gonna have to say, unfortunately, that's not gonna work out for this moment. Grog's attention is on the duergar and you are a giant cat.
Liam: Hey, I'm gonna sneak behind Tiberius and stab that guy.
Laura: It would've been so cool, though.
Ashley: That would've been really cool.
Liam: And since Tiberius is there, I can get sneak attack damage, 'cause one of my allies is there--
Matt: All right, just a second there, you're still holding, let's finish Keyleth. So Keyleth, what are you doing?
Marisha: Well, is Grog in my way?
Matt: Grog is there. You can attempt to leap over Grog.
Marisha: I was wanting to vault off Grog's back, is what I was wanting to do.
Matt: You can do that without asking him.
Marisha: Yeah, that's what I was going to do.
Matt: No, you were saying you wanted to tell Grog you were going to do that. But yes, you can still do it. So go ahead and roll an acrobatics check.
Marisha: No, you asked how I was communicating it.
Laura: Just do it, Keyleth!
Marisha: So I'm gonna come out and I'm gonna vault off his back and try and do a pounce over top of Tiberius for that duergar that's closest to you. What am I rolling?
Taliesin: Acrobatics.
Marisha: Acrobatics? Is this an acrobatics thing?
Matt: Yes. From around the corner, you pull back, leap up, jump onto Grog's back and attempt to spring off of it.
Marisha: 11.
Matt: 11, okay. (laughs) All right. So you jump off of Grog's back. Grog, not expecting it, instinctively ducks down and the force you push off, as he's not aware there's going to be a giant cat there--
Marisha: Uh-huh.
Matt: -- in doing so, it doesn't give you the momentum you need. You are able to jump over him and get kind of into center of the fray. But you do not have the pounce attack, unfortunately.
Marisha: Okay. That's fine.
Matt: But it gets you there, at least.
Marisha: Oh, can I not attack?
Matt: You can attack, yeah.
Marisha: Okay, okay, okay. I'm gonna go ahead and do my bite attack.
Matt: Go for it.
Marisha: I'm gonna go right for his throat. Still with the same intention that I had in mind.
Matt: Okay, this is the one that took the arrow from Laura.
Marisha: Okay, 17.
Matt: 17? That hits. Go ahead and roll for damage.
Marisha: 1d10 plus five. Where's my d10s? Ten damage. Piercing damage.
Matt: Ten piercing damage, all right. So, as you rush forward, you bite at him. You see he pulls back, but you get a big, meaty chunk of his forearm and clamp down, and you feel a snap, some sort of bone in the middle of his arm and he gives out a horrible-- (yells) sound, as he takes the butt of his hammer and hits you on the snout. Doesn't do any damage, but it's enough to get you to kind of let go of your grip a little bit, and he rips his arm out of your jaws. Leaving that kind of nasty, irony taste of duergar blood, that you've now become accustomed to, unfortunately. That ends the round. Now you have Tiberius and a cat in your way.
Marisha: (meows)
Liam: Do the doors go in or out, that I'm by?
Matt: The doors go in.
Liam: In. So I'm just gonna go like this (hinges creak) and throw a dagger and say peek-a-boo at the same time. (laughter)
Matt: Okay. As you step out (fwip).
Liam: That is a 29 to hit.
Matt: That does hit.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: You do not get sneak attack bonus, unfortunately.
Liam: Even though my ally is five feet away from him? I thought I remembered that rule.
Matt: You do if you are in melee with them.
Laura: Oh, right.
Matt: You get the bonus if you're both like flanking them, or you're like harrying them in combat. Because you're at a distance, you don't get the bonus.
Liam: Okay, so that is a nine. And then I'm going to follow-- the nine of damage.
Matt: All right.
Liam: And immediately follow up with my other dagger, which also hits.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll damage on the second dagger. Which is 1d4 plus what?
Liam: Six. That's a nine.
Matt: Nine, okay. So, after the guy rips his arm out of Keyleth's face, essentially, a dagger comes swinging out from behind the doorway, stabs him in the other shoulder. You see he looks down at it confused for a second, and as that dagger vanishes in a puff of dark smoke, returning to your-- the side of your hilt, he looks up just in time to see the second dagger catch him right in the middle of the forehead, and he just falls onto his back at that point, unmoving. That duergar is stripped.
Laura: What-what!
Matt: Who's up next? Who wants to do anything? Who hasn't done anything yet this action?
Sam: Is there is a door next to me for another room?
Matt: You're just finishing.
Sam: Oh, I'm just finishing, okay.
Matt: Sorry. So, Pike, have you done anything yet?
Ashley: Can I-- Is there a door there? Somewhere, right there?
Matt: You move around here, there is a door over here, yes.
Ashley: I can't really do anything. Check it out, check it out.
Liam: Yeah, bust in. You can't stealth.
Matt: The door is a secondary guest room.
Liam: And now, poop on this bed.
Ashley: All right. (laughter)
Taliesin: I can't do anything that could make noise anyway.
Matt: It is a guest room of equal design and dressing as the one that Scanlan, you are unaware, is currently fouling. (laughter)
Ashley: Maybe I get a sudden urge for some reason to just poo on the bed. (laughter)
Matt: You can do what you want. Be aware, Pike as a character has her intent, the more you stray from that, the more it will have ramifications for her in the end.
Ashley: Yes, I know, I'm just kidding, That's not what, that's not what I want to do. I was just, had this feeling that Scanlan was doing something and I felt that--
Sam: She could probably hear, muffled from behind the door, (grunts).
Ashley: Okay, so I'll just-- I guess I can't do anything while I'm in there, so? Can I just--
Matt: That's about as far as you're able to move. You can still use your action if you wanted to do anything, but right now your vision is currently fairly well-blocked by a woman and a bear, and a man the size of a bear.
Ashley: Yeah, okay, so I'll just hang out there.
Matt: Okay, so that brings us back to Kima, who currently doesn't have any sort of way of getting over there, kind of frustrating, trying to find a way over.
Marisha: It's a narrow hallway.
Matt: Clarota, who is still invisible, is just gonna hold on that point.
Orion: As everybody is doing this, I'm going to-- why are you blocking me, I'm not supposed to be this close to this thing! Keep going.
Matt: Okay, Percy! Stand there? All right, Tiberius, you're up.
Orion: Oh, like I was saying. Well, shit.
Sam: Aren't you right next to the guy? Kill him.
Matt: Do it quick, or we are gonna move for the next turn.
Orion: Okay, I'll just lift up my hand and go, Firebolt.
Matt: Okay, point-blank Firebolt. Go ahead and roll your spell attack.
Orion: Okay, okay, 20.
Matt: 20, all right. That'll hit, go ahead and roll for damage for the Firebolt.
Orion: Okay, ten, 18, 20, 21, 23.
Matt: 23 damage? All right. So as you instinctively pull back, you release the blast of Firebolt energy, the duergar who is currently harrying you with this warhammer takes the brunt of it right to the bottom of his face and his torso. The studded leather armor that he's wearing tears open with a sheer flaming burst of the impact of it, and you see most of his skin is charred and burned at that point. He reels back for a second, looking very, very hurt but not quite put down yet.
Orion: As my bonus action, I'm gonna spend two sorcery points and do it again. So I roll for that. It's a 22.
Matt: All right, the second blast, as he reaches back, before he can get a chance to get back to his feet, the second blast hits. This time, it sends him off his feet, flying about five to ten feet back, skidding across the ground.
Orion: 15 damage.
Matt: Yes, and that puts him, still on the floor, laid out with a burning, kind of crippling, crispy scent in the air of what was once a standing duergar, now dead and burning on the ground.
Marisha: So once again I grab him by the scruff, take him, and put him in the bathroom.
Liam: I give a couple of pats on Tiberius's shoulder and start to inch down the hall.
Matt: All right, as you guys are doing this, Scanlan steps out of the guest room, getting his pantaloons back on.
Sam: My invisible pantaloons.
Matt: Yes. You hear the footprints of Scanlan, you being still invisible, you essentially just--
Sam: I phantom pooped. Did I find anything in there, by the way?
Liam: Just relief.
Matt: You found a fun way to prank duergar.
Marisha: Oh, yeah, did I find anything in the barracks?
Matt: Over there? No.
Taliesin: Did Liam-- Did Vax find anything shiny in the room? The shiny thing.
Liam: No, I got interrupted. That's a good idea, thanks for the reminder, Percy.
Taliesin: You're welcome, yes.
Liam: Checking for-- I checked for traps before, but I can't remember what I rolled. I'm sure it was successful.
Matt: Go ahead and roll again. (laughter)
Liam: 17.
Matt: Okay, as you push the door open and get a glance inside of the main hall, you don't see any traps across the floor.
Liam: Okay, I'm gonna go check out the shiny thing.
Matt: Okay. Everyone else staying out in the hallway?
Sam: I'm coming with him.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: If I can get there.
Matt: You manage to scoot through, dancing around folks, people kind of let you get by. Anyone else?
Laura: Yeah, sure, I like shiny things.
Marisha: I'm burying my shame, again. Burying the duergar.
Matt: So, you're dragging the duergar over in the--
Taliesin: I'll go in, too.
Ashley: I'll follow, I'll follow.
Laura: We're all going. It's a big, happy room.
Liam: So say we all.
Marisha: Well, I guess I'll go after I bury duergar.
Matt: Yes, as you guys step in here, move up towards the back corner, where there's the shiny glint. Tiberius, you stay inside or outside?
Orion: I'm going to wait for everybody to go inside.
Marisha: We will be Team Outside Posse.
Matt: Kima walks in, Grog goes to start making his way in. As he does, you go over towards the glimmer. The glimmer on the table, you look, it's just formless and kind of this weird spark of light. It then vanishes, and the doors that you guys entered--
Laura: (singsong) It's a trap.
Matt: -- slam behind you, with Tiberius, Grog and Keyleth all kept outside of the room.
Ashley: No!
Matt: The rest of you guys, the flames go to darkness and the entire room goes pitch-black.
Marisha: Oh, shit!
Laura: Oh, no, we don't have light.
Liam: In the darkness, I say, fuck! (laughter)
Laura: Stupid, stupid, stupid!
Orion: I motion to Grog and I'm like, you know what to do, damn it.
Matt: Grog's gonna go for the door, however, at this point in time, I'm going to ask for--
Laura: Can we stealth? I mean, I guess we're all kind of--
Sam: Ask for?
Liam: Roll for Deus ex Machina.
Sam: Oh, You're gonna ask the chat room something?
Matt: No, no, no. I'm not. I'm working out what's actually gonna happen here. All right, so, suddenly there is a cacophonous bit of pain streaking through Pike, Vex, and Clarota. Guys, go ahead and make an intelligence saving throw.
Sam: Intelligence?
Laura: All of us?
Sam: Some sort of a mind thing.
Laura: Oh, crud.
Marisha: Intelligence.
Laura: Oh, oh, oh! Oh, no, I don't get any advantage in this.
Liam: 13.
Matt: Not you, just you two. So what's the--
Taliesin: Never mind, that was such a good roll.
Ashley: What was that? That's a one. (laughs)
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: I rolled a one!
Matt: So in the darkness, suddenly there is this searing pain, like some sort of screaming sound is blasting you from the inside of your very mind. You two are both currently stunned.
Laura: Oh, crud.
Sam: Who's you two?
Laura: Me and Pike.
Ashley: I did bad things, I did bad things. I shouldn't have killed a man while he was down. Wait, so what does that-- That means we just can't do anything, right?
Matt: On every turn, you get to try and break that, but right now neither of you can--
Marisha: Every turn they have to try and break out of it? It keeps going? It's like a keep-going thing?
Matt: You both just sit there, grasping your heads, just screaming in pain as your body is unable to function or listen to any thought process. Clarota also unfortunately falls victim to this and is also unable to make any actions.
Sam: Oh boy!
Liam: I'm pulling out my flametongue dagger to try to get a little bit of light in here.
Matt: All right, however-- You, as you are currently pulling out your flametongue dagger, you feel a presence nearby, and with a little bit of embers around the fire, you see, out of nothing, a figure step into view that apparently was not visible but a moment before. A tall, lithe figure, with long limbs, fingers and a wrapping of facial tentacles coming towards your face.
Sam: It was invisible.
Liam: I see him, I'm gonna stab, I'm just gonna stab.
Matt: Before you get the chance to stab, you get a surprise attack from this guy.
Laura: Oh, no, what if he sucks our brains out?
Matt: All right, that comes to an 18 versus armor class.
Liam: Yeah, he got me.
Matt: So, as you go back for your blade to pull it out, he grabs you by the shoulders and pulls you, and the tentacles wrap around your face and pull you into this horrible toothy maw. You feel this tearing pain sensation as its teeth begin to dig into your face.
Ashley: No, no, no, no.
Laura: Oh my god, he's gonna die.
Liam: That hurts. A lot.
Matt: You take 17 points of psychic damage as the actual presence of the tentacles pulling on your face, you feel it's kind of grabbing your brain and trying to hold it in place. You are currently considered grappled.
Marisha: Son of a bitch.
Matt: Now, guys, everyone roll initiative. That was a surprise round.
Marisha: Surprise round.
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: 'Cause they got the drop on us
Taliesin: That'll do.
Orion: What's going on in there? I hear lots of ruckus.
Sam: We'll be out in a minute.
Orion: Don't give me that, Scanlan. Oh. Scanlan, you can hear me. What's going on in there?
Sam: We're all dying.
Orion: I turn to Grog. They're all dying.
Matt: (laughs) All right, so 25 to 20?
Sam: No one.
Matt: All right, 25 to 20, no one-- almost forgot, go ahead and make an intelligence saving throw.
Liam: 23.
Matt: 23, all right, you feel the presence of its mind pressing into your brain and you manage to, through the pain of its tentacles pulling you towards its mouth, shrug off its current attempt to push into your mind.
Liam: I'm thinking of the middle finger.
Matt: That's a good thing. Okay. So you're still grappled but you're not stunned.
Sam: Is he a piece on the board yet?
Matt: Both of them are now visible right there. All right, so, 25 to 20?
Laura: Nobody.
Matt: 20 to 15?
Liam: 17.
Taliesin: 16.
Orion: 17.
Matt: 17 and 16, all right. So actually, Grog is going first. All right, and Percy. 15 to ten? Ten to five?
Marisha: Oh, oh, wait, 13. (laughter)
Marisha: Sorry, I was thinking about shit.
Matt: That's okay. Ten to five?
Laura: Nine.
Taliesin: Thinking about shit.
Marisha: Thinking about life and death. (laughs)
Taliesin: Word.
Matt: All right.
Sam: Two.
Ashley: Oh, so did I. Best friends.
Sam: Besties. Twinsies.
Ashley: Gnomesies. (laughter)
Sam: We're still-- Mr. Dungeon Master, sir, this is all the same day. I don't get any of my spells back?
Matt: No, you guys have not rested. All right, so first, the top actually-- Kima is at the top of the initiative order.
Marisha: Kima, get it girl, get it, get it girl.
Matt: Kima angrily leaps on top of the table and goes running down with an angry yell, and leaps down toward the one that's currently grabbing onto you with its grapple. As she's running a little bit of light bursts, as you can see this divine energy begin to burst and glow off the edge of the greatsword that she's holding. She leaps down, and with a giant arc through the air that lights up that portion of the room with a brief sweep, the blade comes down towards-- oh, that'll hit. Second attack also hits.
Ashley: Yes, go Kima.
Matt: So that comes to-- okay, using her Divine Smite ability on top of that, she manages to deal 37 points of damage to it.
Taliesin: Damn.
Matt: As she finishes both of her strikes simultaneously. The mindflayer, however, does not release its grasp on you. You are still considered grappled. That ends her turn. Grog now is gonna angrily attempt to bash into this door, is gonna make an-- actually no, no athletics check, he's going to go into a rage and hitting away at the door. (growling)
Liam: (Grog voice) I would like to rage. (laughter)
Laura: (Grog voice) I would like to rage. (laughter)
Matt: All right, that puts a total of 32 points of damage, that's enough. So Grog just takes two big swings. The first one comes through, cracks the door in half, splitting it down the center. Rears back a second time, cleaves through the door entirely. What little bit is left on the hinges, he kicks out with his foot, leaving now this side completely open to the interior. He then moves in around Clarota. That's as far as he can get in this current turn. That brings us to Vax.
Liam: What can I do while grappled, nothing until I'm ungrappled?
Matt: Well, no, you can try and make an acrobatics or athletics roll against them to try and break free.
Liam: Okay, but then do I have an action once that's done or that's the action?
Matt: I'll let you use that as your move.
Liam: All right, so I'm gonna try to use, I guess athletics is what I would do.
Matt: Or acrobatics, up to you, whichever's higher.
Liam: Well, that would be acrobatics.
Matt: Acrobatics, then.
Liam: 27.
Matt: 27?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: That'll do it.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: You manage to, just in that moment of it being struck with the two blade strikes from Lady Kima, you manage to pull your head free from its grasp. And just manage to right yourself now, the throbbing pain in your head of what you just narrowly avoided still there.
Liam: Okay. Poison dagger in hand, I roll an 18. Does that hit?
Matt: Okay. 18. Currently that does hit, yes.
Liam: I wanna grab him by the calamari and stab him in the eye. (laughter)
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Liam: That's what I did, so-- and then if I'm five feet-- if Kima's there, I can sneak attack according to the rules?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: All right, so I'm gonna stab him in the eye. One. Plus the sneak attack damage is two, four, ten, 13, 19, 38, plus seven-- 45.
Matt: 45. All right. So, as you--
Liam: With the poison dagger.
Matt: Right, the poison dagger. I think you've already used the daily poison ability on this.
Liam: I don't remember, so it's just a stab.
Matt: Okay. So the 45 points of damage. You pull back and you jam it into the side of its eye. You can see as it rears back, a spray of dark-colored liquid kind of warms the side of your face. As you pull the blade back out it rears back and (growls). You can hear its voice piercing into your head going, "I will eat you one way or another!"
Ashley: No, you won't!
Laura: Did it distract him enough that we lost our thingy?
Matt: That's your main attack?
Liam: I mean, I would imagine between ungrappling and stabbing, is that it for me? Or do I get my second attack, I don't know?
Matt: You can get your second attack, I'm sorry.
Liam: Okay, well I think, go fuck yourself, and stab again. Nine plus-- 19.
Matt: 19? Yeah, that hits.
Liam: Other eye, other eye. No sneak attack. Two plus-- eight.
Matt: Eight. Okay. As it rears back and you hear it saying that, you pull back and you grab with your off hand the cluster of tentacles in the front of its face and pull it down. As you do, the inertia-- you jam the blade into the other eye. As you do, you hear this blast burst of angry scream inside your head, before it goes dead cold, silent, and the mind flayer falls to the ground.
Liam: I fucking hate these things!
Matt: All right. That brings us to Clarota, who's currently stunned and fails save, Clarota's still stunned. Tiberius.
Orion: I look through the door.
Matt: Look through the door.
Orion: What's going on in here? Are there any enemies I can see?
Matt: You can see over here, barely. It's very dark in the far corner, you can see just the shape of some humanoid there.
Orion: Oh. Okay, is he-- (laughs)
Matt: What are you doing, Tiberius?
Orion: (laughs) How tall is the thing?
Matt: From what you can see, it's maybe roughly six, seven feet. Grog's blocking most of it.
Orion: No, like, we're in a bunker, right?
Matt: Right now, you're in this giant great hall with giant tables and stools everywhere.
Orion: And the ceiling is--
Matt: You can't see the ceiling right now, there's no light.
Orion: Oh.
Matt: The room is near pitch-black, like there's just very little light in there currently.
Orion: I will waltz in behind Grog.
Matt: All right.
Orion: I cast Light.
Matt: Okay. The room all of a sudden bursts into view, you can now see the walls, the ceiling-- it's a smooth stone room. There is a large chandelier currently hanging from the top of the ceiling. It's about 25 feet up to the ceiling in this current room.
Marisha: (gasps) There's a big chandelier. That's fun.
Orion: And now do I see that guy better?
Matt: You do, yes. You see now there is a mind flayer currently ducking behind one of the tables right now. You can see a number of your friends in the party are currently clutching their heads, silently screaming to themselves, unmoving.
Orion: Ah, right. There's another one of those guys over there!
Marisha: Wait, there's another one?
Orion: Yes!
Marisha: There's two?
Matt: There's two.
Orion: I spend three sorcerer points.
Matt: How many sorcerer points do you have left? You spent a lot over the past couple games.
Orion: No, I have not, because I didn't do anything last game, because I was all recharged.
Matt: That's true, actually. Okay. Just keep track of that. So how many do you have left?
Orion: I have eight right now. Now I'll spend it to go down to--
Laura: Five.
Orion: Five. 'Cause math.
Matt: Okay, got you. Cool, good on you.
Marisha: Fantasy math. Once again, 826LA, after-school tutoring. Good charity.
Orion: I could have used it. I cast my pillars, or Grand Columns, as I like to call it, and (piston sound) all the way up and smash that little bastard.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Smashy smashy.
Matt: So what's the save you get past that for the spell?
Orion: He does a dex save, and he takes 6d6 damage, and the dex save is to see if he's pinned or not.
Matt: Right. It does make its save, I believe, it's 21?
Orion: Oh, my, what?
Matt: Rolled a 21 versus your DC of your spell, which I believe is not higher than 21.
Orion: No.
Matt: So yeah, so he still takes the damage, but is not pinned.
Orion: Which is 15, 18 points of damage.
Matt: Okay, 18 points of damage, and manages to pull out of the way just in time as it slams into him, he darts off and catches himself on the ground, kind of slowly levitating above the ground as he comes to a stop. The pillar then slams into the roof, this section here. Actually splinters part of the table, which is now kind of lifted off-kilter at an angle. Yup. It--
Orion: Oh, so that-- does that mean he's in the air for a whole round? 'Cause how it works is, he's all the way up to that height, but he gets to come, or fall, back down if he makes the save. That's how-- so he has to travel that distance, so does he cast Levitate as he's coming down?
Matt: How I'm playing it is, the impact of the pillar suddenly slamming in from underneath is what does the initial damage, and he manages to roll off before it slams into the ceiling. He kinda-- So. However, that ends your turn. The mind flayer, now looking around and seeing the room lit up, seeing the entire group now in this room, looks around at everyone, puts its hands together and concentrates-- and as it does you see its form (sucking noise) vanish.
Marisha: Damn it!
Matt: A few seconds pass, you guys manage to shrug your stun, and Clarota as well.
Ashley: Whoa, what happened?
Marisha: That's not good.
Laura: What happened?
Marisha: They really know we're here.
Laura: We need to get out of this room, then.
Taliesin: Let's just search the rest of this floor as quickly as possible.
Marisha: As quickly as possible.
Laura: Grog, can you always put down the dust of tracelessness?
Matt: "All right, I will." He's doing his flower-girl moment. Passes behind you guys. All right, so, what is the current mode of action for you guys?
Marisha: I'm going to go ahead and dart down this hall that we know is for sure empty.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Exit the other side of the great hall that we're in.
Matt: All right.
Laura: And I think we should all go back-- we should go to the second floor.
Matt: Through here.
Liam: Walking in that door.
Matt: You look through here and see what appears to be some sort of a kitchen. You can see shelf units, you can see what looks like a few tables, you can see some kitchen elements.
Liam: I'm gonna walk all the way in, all the way in.
Matt: All right, you walk all the way in. There's a door towards the back--
Liam: The right, what do I see?
Matt: The right, you see what looks to be a doorway that's partially open that leads to a staircase.
Liam: Up or down?
Matt: Looks like it's going up.
Marisha: And what's in this room? I'm looking over here.
Matt: Okay, you look over here. It's a double door that is currently closed.
Taliesin: I will head in your direction as well.
Orion: Eight, two of my d6s to heal up.
Matt: You haven't taken a short rest yet. You have to-- you guys have to stop and take ten minutes, 15 minutes to rest to do that, so--
Sam: I'm gonna look all over the great hall and see if there's any cool stuff in there.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: I think what we should do-- Everyone, I think what we should do is make our way back to the initial storage room we were in and go up that stairway, because that one's hidden. It's by a hidden entrance, people aren't gonna think about that one as much as main stairways.
Taliesin: I agree, I think we should-- I agree with that, I just think we should check the rest of the floor as well. Just double-check everything, make sure we didn't miss the--
Liam: Vax is heading back to the group.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Percy and I are checking this room with the double doors. Do you have any trap checks to see if it's locked?
Liam: I do!
Matt: Okay, so Percy and both you guys open this doorway. It opens up into what looks to be another smaller eating hall. This one's nicer, this one has one long table. This is probably where the more socially risen--
Taliesin: Take a quick look around.
Marisha: Yeah, anything in there?
Matt: Looks like it hasn't been used for a day or two.
Taliesin: All right.
Marisha: No cool goodies?
Matt: No current goodies in this area, no.
Taliesin: So we'll go-- just keep going down and check the rest of that hallway.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: There's a lot more, you guys. I think we should go find the vault on the second floor.
Matt: All right, you guys press down here. There apparently are now-- you can see there's another set of double doors--
Liam: Vax is following.
Matt: All right.
Laura: I think I should gather the group and try to make it back to the other storage room. Just to get us out of this area specifically.
Matt: So you guys are all moving back with--
Laura: Is that cool?
Matt: -- Vex to return to the previous storage room?
Marisha: We can do that. Yeah, go for it.
Taliesin: And you'll hear us if anything goes wrong. Yeah, we'll power through it.
Laura: Use your earring.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: I'll go ahead and very-- I'm just gonna kinda use my keen sense-- or sorry, my keen smell again to see if I can smell any duergar in the area.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a perception check with advantage.
Marisha: That's pretty good. Oh yeah, I'll take that first roll, which was seven-- 27.
Matt: 27. You smell that on this floor, there doesn't appear to be any duergar in your immediate vicinity. There is a strong, lingering scent of them coming from the doorway that you're currently at.
Marisha: A strong, lingering scent?
Matt: Correct, like it-- you can kind of tell there was a recent moving of a large number of duergar.
Marisha: But probably not present.
Matt: You don't know.
Marisha: Whatever. I guess we'll see what's in here.
Matt: All righty.
Marisha: Peeky, peeky.
Liam: I kind of parkour past Percy.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: Parkour past Percy!
Marisha: Parkour, parkour!
Matt: You open the doors into what appears to be a large temple chamber, a place of worship. What you see are a series of long, wooden benches that are arranged to look towards the center. There is an altar to the right that is a risen kind of stone dais, and in the center there is a stone table, an altar which has a piece of black cloth wrapped over it and something on top of it you can't see from this distance. In the center of the room there is a 12-foot-tall statue of what looks like an extremely strong armored duergar clutching a giant warhammer and a shield.
Marisha: Hm. I'm gonna-- oh wait, I'm a tiger.
Matt: Yup.
Liam: I'm gonna perception check the room. Which is high. 27.
Matt: 27? There does not appear to be anybody inside this room.
Liam: Screw this room.
Matt: However, do you have a religion--
Taliesin: I would like to do a religion roll.
Matt: Roll religion, guys.
Taliesin: Nine.
Liam: Nine.
Ashley: Could I do a religion roll from where I am?
Matt: You are not over there, unfortunately.
Marisha: That's what I was gonna do, is tell somebody to get Pike over here real quick.
Laura: Do you guys have earrings?
Ashley: I can put on my sprinter's boots.
Liam: Yeah, Pike, Pike? There's some sort of religious artifacts over here. Could use your expertise.
Matt: Pike, you make your way through, eventually coming down this hallway-- (clanking)
Marisha: She's coming! I can hear her coming.
Ashley: Hey guys, I'm here! Did you know I was coming? (laughter)
Matt: Go ahead and make a religion check.
Liam: Don't stab anything.
Orion: I'm gonna follow suit, but slowly.
Ashley: 17.
Matt: All right. As you're heading that direction slowly, best that you can tell right now, this room is definitely a small temple built to-- and the name kind of escapes you, the words trying to form in your head for a second, and then eventually you come to realize this is a chapel to Laduguer. Laduguer is the deity of the duergar. It's the god that basically freed them from their original enslavement from the illithids, and they worship as a pinnacle of power, strength, and conquest.
Orion: I make it up to where those guys are.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Let's keep searching.
Sam: Hey, what's the darkness right next to me? Is there a door there? What is that?
Matt: There is a door right over here.
Sam: Oh. I'm gonna open it.
Matt: Okay. All right. So you go ahead and open the door. It opens up into what you can immediately see is a chamber that is some kind of magical laboratory. You see in the far corner, hunched, a robed duergar, and as you open the door, there's a slight sound, a click sound, and a jet of greenish fume begins to spray up into your face. Make a constitution save.
Sam: Oh, god. I don't even know what that is! (laughs) 15.
Matt: 15? All right. So you take 11 points of poison damage. However, you can feel the poison forcing its way into your lungs. You manage to back out of the cloud in time and cough it up and your general physical well-being-- you resist most of the effects of the poison. However, this poison fume trap did appear to go off and as the smoke slowly dissipates, you hear a chuckle across the other side.
Orion: As I hear the noise, I--
Matt: You don't hear the noise, you're too far away.
Orion: Oh, shit.
Matt: You guys do hear it, though.
Laura: Okay, I come over there and see what the-- what just happened.
Matt: Okay, as you rush over, Scanlan's backed up away and you can see there's this chamber here.
Laura: Is the poison still in the air, or is it--
Matt: It's dissipated at this point. It's thin enough. You still can smell it, and it smells awful, like a very, very heavy, electrical fire-type smell.
Laura: So I can see that guy?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: So should I notch an arrow and try to hit him?
Matt: It's up to you. What're you going to do?
Laura: All right, I attack him, then!
Matt: All right, go for it then.
Ashley: Attack him! Get him!
Laura: Shabang! Oh, dang it, I didn't do it. I meant to Hunter's Mark him and transfer it over, but that's okay, I didn't say it.
Matt: You didn't say it this time.
Laura: That's 30. For the first.
Liam: You did say shabang.
Laura: I did say shabang, and 16 for the second.
Matt: Okay, both hit. Go ahead and roll damage on each.
Ashley: Hit it. (music flares up)
Laura: Well, sort of. 15 and eight.
Matt: 15 and eight. All right.
Liam: The music is on.
Matt: All right. So both arrows you've been firing over the top. He's kind of hard to see with the table and from being crouched in the corner, but both arrows still manage to barely make their mark. One kind of pins him against the wall, and he looks at his shoulder briefly, looks back at you, raises his hand, as he begins muttering something under his breath. As he does, your arrow (shnk) through his hand and he tries to shake it, and now he's pinned to the wall with an arrow in the middle of his hand.
Laura: Yeah!
Ashley: Yeah!
Laura: Trinket! Oh no, I used two attacks.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Dang it.
Matt: You can still tell Trinket to move. What are you gonna do?
Laura: No, no no, I'm gonna hold him there, 'cause he's already in the room.
Matt: Okay, got you. All right, so what are you guys doing over in the temple?
Liam: Exiting.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: No! Look and see if there's anything cool, first. What was that thing that's covered up by the blanket on the altar?
Matt: You keep walking towards it?
Marisha: Yeah. What's up with that?
Matt: You make your way, you look at the top of the dais where the altar is, and on top you can see the black cloth that is wrapped over it. The scent gets to you before the actual visual. It's freshly rotting flesh of some kind, and as you glance over, you can see there is a heart that has been cut from a body and it's at the point where the blood has coagulated and begin to become thick. It's roughly dwarven size.
Marisha: I get up and I grab it in my mouth.
Matt: Okay. It tastes disgusting.
Marisha: And then I walk over to Vax and I lay it at his feet. I kind of nudge it with my nose.
Matt: She got you a heart.
Liam: I scritch Keyleth behind the ear, but nudge it aside with my toe and exit the room.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I did scritch her ears, but I'm going to continue down to the end of the hall.
Matt: This way?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, you make your way into what looks like a giant foyer, into a secondary entrance in the side of the fortress.
Liam: I just walk all the way over to the corner, stealthing.
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Liam: It's high, it's 28.
Matt: 28, got it, okay. So, as you make your way through, you eventually careen to this corner. You can see another hallway, what appears to be another room of some kind. You also glance back and see there are two sets of stairways that go up and down.
Liam: What's behind me?
Matt: This is a giant foyer that leads outside of the fortress.
Liam: And the edge of the map this way?
Matt: This way here? This way? This comes to an abrupt end at that point, a rocky wall into the mountain itself that it's buttressed up against.
Liam: Okay, I'm gonna keep coming this way, stealthing.
Matt: All right. As you move through--
Laura: What's happening with that dude I-- are you doing all this while I just pin down--
Liam: Yeah. I don't know what's going on back there. I'm just walking around.
Matt: So, you glance in this room. There's an open walkway and what appears to be another barrack section, also completely empty.
Liam: Screw that. Do I see a door for this room that's still darkened out? Then I'm gonna keep sliding along the wall.
Matt: Okay, as you slide along here, to make your way around to a door there.
Liam: Okay. Pressing my hand, just to see if I can check any for traps.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: 26.
Matt: 26, all right. The door does not appear to be trapped.
Taliesin: I'm gonna be heading in that direction anyway.
Marisha: Agreed. Same here.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I would like to stealth through the door.
Orion: Before I leave, I carefully examine that statue.
Matt: Okay, what are you examining?
Orion: The facial features of the god, the deity, right? Is that what he is?
Matt: Yeah. Okay, so you look at the face of Laduguer. You can see it's very, very old, it's very well-crafted. You can see a lot of very meticulous craftsmanship went into its creation. It almost glistens with a perfection that is out of place in an area that is so covered in soot and various other volcanic activity-based mineral deposits.
Orion: I'm gonna do a quick arcana check, just to see if there's any kind of mystical thing around it or anything like that. And it's 19.
Matt: Okay. There is some sort of a hum to the air that has an arcane element to it, but you are unable to pinpoint what it necessarily means or what the source is.
Orion: Interesting. Knowing that, I kind of gather my thoughts and I head towards where the rest of the group is.
Matt: Okay, so, while you're opening the door, the mage in the far corner kind of looks about sporadically and looks down at the arrow in its hand and its shoulder and just kind of fearfully, "Wait wait wait! Wait. Stop. Don't attack. Let's have a conversation."
Laura: Speak fast. Before I kill you.
Matt: He leans forward, kind of pulling the arrow out of the doorway. (groans in pain) Starts hobbling towards you a little bit.
Laura: Can we all-- we go in the room and Trinket goes up next to him and, like, gets all up in his face?
Matt: Okay. As you both enter, both of you make constitution saving throws. As two more plumes of poison (pff) out of the ground as both you and Trinket walk in.
Liam: Good.
Laura: 15?
Matt: 15, okay. And for Trinket as well.
Laura: Oh, I should've been so smart, but I wasn't. (laughter)
Laura: 14 for Trinket.
Matt: Okay. You take seven points of poison damage.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Trinket, however, takes 14 points of poison damage.
Laura: Oh man. What did I get, seven?
Matt: Seven. And Trinket is currently considered poisoned.
Laura: Oh no!
Sam: What does that mean?
Matt: It means disadvantage on attack rolls, disadvantage on ability checks.
Laura: That's okay.
Matt: And now there's a bear coughing and kind of thrashing about the room. The table it bumps into and it kind of topples over.
Laura: Is this like a turn thing or can I do something?
Matt: Well, this is just a reactionary moment of you guys coughing and trying to get out of this poisonous fume.
Laura: I mean, can I quickly cast Protection from Poison on Trinket?
Matt: You can, yes.
Laura: Okay. I do that.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And that cures it.
Matt: That completely removes the poison?
Laura: Yes it does.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Yay Trinket!
Matt: Well done. So that's your action. You now, as you are checking the door and you open it up, you hear all this commotion going off to the side now. Scanlan, you're over there as well, watching as more plumes of these poisonous smoke bits.
Sam: If I get close to the door without going through it, can I see the guy?
Matt: You can move over and look, you can just barely make out his form. It is a dark room that is currently filled with a slowly dissipating green cloud so it's hard to make him out.
Sam: Okay, well then I will just-- fuck (laughs). Well, if I can't see him then I will just yell at him.
Matt: All right.
Sam: I'll yell with Vicious Mockery. I don't like you very much for poisoning me and my friends, you're a poopy head! (laughter)
Marisha: So vicious.
Laura: That is threatening.
Marisha: Damn.
Sam: Ooh. That does seven points of damage.
Matt: Seven points from Vicious Mockery? All right! (laughter)
Matt: I don't know how that works.
Sam: It's Vicious Mockery. It's an attack.
Matt: That's crazy.
Liam: That's, like, 80 points of damage!
Marisha: And who said that words couldn't hurt people?
Taliesin: And bonus damage to his mother, wherever she may be.
Marisha: Sticks and stones can break my bones, but words can hurt.
Matt: Okay. So it has to make a will saving throw, against your DC. It rolls a three. It does not. So, as you shout out into this room, the currently fearful duergar mage kind of glances, eyes slide about, hears these words and you see him wrack his head for a second with a sudden sense of self-loathing and disappointment. (laughter)
Matt: His hands drop and it looks like for a minute his intent to begin muttering some sort of incantation is momentarily distracted.
Orion: Nice!
Matt: All right, awesome.
Ashley: Can I start moving back?
Matt: Yeah, you can start moving back this way.
Liam: I hear that, but I'm still going to poke my head stealthily through the door and see what I see. Do I need a new stealth check or?
Matt: Yes you do.
Liam: Okay, great. So that is a 32.
Matt: All right, you glance inside at what looks to be some sort of a training room. There are-- most of the floor itself is stone, and in the far corner there is a large section that is mainly just sand and dirt and there are a number of wooden training structures. You know, various shields and wooden bars that are used as a means of training for weaponry. There's what looks like a giant rack of weapons, full of arms and stuff.
Liam: Anything good-looking?
Matt: Go ahead and make a perception check.
Liam: One.
Matt: Most of the materials in this room look like the basic duergar fare.
Liam: These don't look very good.
Taliesin: I was going to run in and take a look around anyway so--
Matt: (laughs) Okay. As you run in, go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Taliesin: God damn it. Okay.
Sam: (sings) Traps, traps, traps-traps-traps.
Taliesin: 24.
Matt: All right, so. You take ten points of lightning damage as you feel a tile on the ground trigger and then spring up, and as it does, you hear this sudden high-pitched whine as blue energy streaks up from the floor, runs through your body. Thankfully, you manage to dive out of the way and touch the ground to ground the energy, minimizing the damage. But yeah, you triggered (laughs) triggered a trap plate. You're beginning to get the sense that a lot of this tactic of this fortress now has been to lead you guys through a--
Marisha: Maze?
Matt: A maze of traps.
Sam: A labyrinth.
Liam: Before we hurt ourselves any longer, we should--
Laura: We've got to kill this guy. Or talk to him at least.
Liam: We need to get to the main event here.
Matt: All right. At this point, Kima is now-- As Kima hears you shouting all these curses into the room, Kima pushes past you, and pushes past you. You can see Kima coming into the room behind you guys. Steps over the broken table, down in front of the circle, and grabs the mage by the front of his robe, pulling him into her face. The mage at this point is still kind of reeling from the fact that you managed to strike him so deeply in the heart of his hearts.
Sam: He's just not a nice man.
Matt: However, Kima, with a look of absolute death in her face, grabs him and pulls him forward and says, "Listen, where is the rest of your fucking army?" She's going to make an intimidation check.
Taliesin: Yeah! Damn.
Matt: He does not succeed in resisting that.
Laura: Yes!
Matt: The duergar is pressed against the wall now, and she's slamming him against the back of a bookshelf. "Look, all right, they're waiting for you up there, all right? You're not going to survive this. At this point, the entire city's probably waiting for you in the outside of the fortress and those that are upstairs are well-prepared. Okay? Your best chance of survival is laying down your arms and surrendering. I'm looking out for your best interests here."
Liam: Kill this asshole.
Marisha: Kill him.
Matt: Kima, who is still holding him against there, you can see her hand releases the scruff and he takes a deep breath for a second. But before he can finish exhaling, she goes in, immediately grabbing his throat and squeezing it extremely tight. As she does, you see his tongue, dangling out the side of his mouth (strangling noises) as she's cutting off his entire air supply. She pulls forward and takes the greatsword and begins to slowly push it into his abdomen. As she does, he starts screaming in terrible pain. You can see her just slowly pushing the blade through his body into the bookcase behind. As she does, she goes, "You're gonna tell me, right now, who they have waiting for us upstairs." As she begins to push all the way to the hilt now, he's pinned up against the bookcase and probably a portion of the stonework behind him. He's now got blood pouring out the sides of his face and outside the front of his nose. The duergar being held up against the wall says, "Whatever you haven't killed. The army's probably up with the king himself. They're all waiting for you and I hope they piss on your body when they're done!" At which point she takes the blade and twists it. As she does, he gives this guttural yelp and his eyes just go blank. Blanker than the duergar eyes normally are.
Orion: I make it to the doorway and go, what is going on in here?
Laura: Are there any-- taking that in-- any healing potions or anything in here that we could use?
Matt: Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Sam: Can I look at the door and see if the trap will go off again if we step through it again?
Matt: Perception check.
Sam: 20.
Matt: Looks like, from glancing about the room and getting a feel for it, there were three traps that were all placed directly at the front of the door, basically to give him a point of defense, they've all been triggered, so you don't have to worry about any more in this room.
Laura: Is this still considered the Underdark?
Matt: This is, yes.
Laura: Oh, cool!
Sam: I'm going to go in and look around some more.
Matt: You're looking around as well?
Sam: Look around for potions and stuff.
Laura: Oh, that's considered the-- aw, I could have been rolling twice for all these damn things!
Matt: (sings) Remember your abilities.
Laura: (sings) 25.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Who's the singer here, people?
Matt: Sorry, Scanlan. So, as Kima pulls the blade from its body, kicking it off the greatsword and wiping it across the leather on the side-- the leather that you gave to her! And a little part of you is like, (sadly) hmm.
Liam: That's all right. Worth it. This halfling's hot.
Matt: So you guys made your way back, Clarota's there, against the corner, and Grog rushes over, just feeling like he was ready for action. "What's going on?"
Ashley: You're too late.
Marisha: This might be a good time to stop for a moment.
Matt: That's up to you guys, as I say, do you guys want to take a short rest?
Laura: Did I find any potions? Did I find anything?
Matt: Yes. Glancing around the room, you manage to find two potions of healing, one potion of superior healing.
All: Ooh.
Laura: What is that? That's major.
Marisha: That's cool.
Matt: You also find one vial of some sort of weird, viscous yellow liquid that you cannot identify.
Marisha: Oh, don't open that. Who knows how long those guards had to be staked out here? Don't open that.
Sam: Can I do a-- can I investigate it or arcana it?
Matt: Sure, you can give it a go.
Sam: Yeah. That's a one.
Laura: Oh good.
Sam: Oh wait, no, that's a seven. These dice are horrible. Anyway, it doesn't matter. It's bad.
Matt: It looks delicious. No, actually, you can't make out, it has some changing color as you kind of swirl the bottle and watch the texture inside shift and change with the centrifugal force. You can't make out anything about its intent, but it does feel like it's a potion created with some effect.
Sam: Tiberius, do you want to drink this?
Orion: No! What is it? I check it for 18.
Sam: For what?
Orion: For whatever you're trying to hand to me.
Matt: 18 arcana? Okay. You take a look at it. It definitely is magical, you don't have a lot of experience with alchemy but you gather that the effect that it would have upon imbibement would be to alter your physical form in some way, you just don't know the specific effects.
Orion: Absolutely, Scanlan, I'll take that for now. And I put it in my pouch.
Taliesin: Let's take a short rest.
Matt: So, as you guys all kind of enter this room, this brief safe zone to take a short rest, if you feel you want to heal yourself up and regain any short rest-based abilities, do so.
Marisha: Can we talk about what this duergar just told us?
Laura: Can we go to the bathroom before we do that?
Matt: That's what I was going to say. We can return-- So we're going to take a quick bathroom break, we're going to play the videos again, we'll return here in just a second, as the next element of the attack on Emberhold continues.
Marisha: Oh, and this is your last chance because after the break we'll pick a winner for the Espionage giveaway. So, last chance if you want to tweet @EspionageMakeup and #CriticalRole and look at our sweet nails! They're awesome. They're cool.
Matt: (whispers) Galaxies! All right, see you guys in a second.
Orion: I have text and whatnot. [break]
Matt: Welcome back, guys! All right, so we've had ourselves sufficiently rested.
Zac: Indeed we have. We have a Tabletop Promo Day kit to give away, because you guys got the 50 subs since we started today.
Matt: Which is awesome.
Zac: And we'll give away another one with another signed poster at the end of the night if you get another 50. So we're about to give this away, but I just want to remind you guys to donate to 826LA. That's the group that Critical Role is supporting, and these guys are here out of the graces of their heart, and it would be very helpful for you guys to donate to them and show your love for Critical Role by donating to the charity. We'll post the link in the chat. Get those donations rolling!
Matt: Awesome.
Zac: Zac out!
Matt: All right, thank you, Zac! Couple of quick things. You wanted to announce the Espionage--
Marisha: Yes! Our winner for the Espionage Bath Bombs Tabletop from @espionagemakeup goes to (drumroll) Danny Carr. Who is @Eleine35. So, Danny, I'm pretty sure you follow me on Twitter, just PM me your address and I'll get these out to you. And thank you!
Matt: Yeah, did you follow him? Because you have to follow him--
Marisha: Oh, I have to follow-- Oh, well then I'll follow Danny right now.
Matt: Awesome! Also, as a heads-up, guys, we've had some people perpetually asking us about the shirts that we made.
Orion: You mean these shirts?
Matt: That shirt right there. So, we have a-- it's a temporary-- it's very basic, but we have up, if you guys ever want to go to critrole.com, we have a limited run of those shirts currently available for purchase.
Marisha: Very limited, like once they're gone, they're gone.
Laura: It's less than-- probably less than 15 of each size, less than that, probably. It was a small amount.
Liam: I was wearing mine earlier today and I only rolled 20s. Only.
Marisha: It's true. So, it's www.critrole.com, and, yeah, and the site is still under construction, so. But we managed to rush it out, and I wanna give a huge shout-out to Michael Whitesman, who's a big friend of ours, for helping us make the website
Orion: Thanks, Whitey!
Marisha: @whitesly, if you want to bug him, and, yeah, so, if you buy--
Orion: That's his nickname! It's not like a--
Marisha: Whitesly! His last name is Whitesly.
Orion: I know. But I said, "What's up Whitey," like, to him personally, and then they look at me like, "Oh my lord, that's so racist." (laughter)
Orion: And I'm like, no, no, it's his nickname. It's okay.
Matt: That is actually his nickname.
Liam: I'm just sad that you don't call me Whitey.
Orion: I mean, I can.
Liam: Okay. Let's start. After this game.
Marisha: Anyways. Anyways, you can go buy t-shirts now, which was the whole point of that. At critrole.com. And there's a limited run. Once they're gone, they're gone.
Matt: The cost includes shipping. We'll get-- we're packaging them ourselves. We'll have, hopefully, more in the future, but this is the first attempt at trying to do something like this for you guys, so--
Marisha: Yeah. We're doing this all ourselves just to, just 'cause-- See how this works. You guys--
Laura: And that includes the shipping, that's why the price is--
Ashley: So future t-shirts-- Were you guys saying something, like it would be artwork from--
Marisha: Yes, this was, we got this from @rusegafdi. He wore this at Tabletop Day, so--
Laura: A very similar design, so yeah.
Marisha: Yeah, so we're-- we decided we're going to do, like, fan-designed t-shirts. So, once every so often, we'll do a fan-designed t-shirt, and yes. And then-- but they'll all be limited, so yeah!
Matt: Yeah. Shipping, shipping is included with the price, guys, don't worry. But yeah. So, anyway, check that out! Thank you guys so much, and let's go ahead and get back to the game proper.
Crew: Hey, the t-shirts are sold out already. They're now sold out. They bought all of them.
Marisha: T-shirts are sold out!
Orion: Wait, what?
Taliesin: We didn't even finish telling you people!
Laura: No they're not.
Taliesin: Let us finish our sentence first!
Matt: Okay, so, so, so the limited run was very limited--
Marisha: Holy shit!
Matt: I guess we'll have to order some more, then.
Sam: Uh, mental note  make more t-shirts.
Marisha: We didn't know! We didn't know!
Matt: We were gauging interest. I guess there's interest.
Marisha: I'm sorry! Now I almost feel guilty. Congratulations to the 100 people who got 'em.
Orion: Hold on. Tiberius is gonna work some magic, and then try to conjure up a few more. He was unaware there was a shortage of, of those-- okay.
Matt: Sorry, guys, all right, well, we'll-- thank you guys very much, we'll get more to you very soon.
Marisha: I don't know what to say! Oh god, I'm like, going to cry.
Laura: Second run, yeah! Just hashtag them critical role and we'll-- oh, but if you're selling them already, there's somebody that's making really cool t-shirts on Redbubble, but if you're making them there, like, we can't print them too, so, like, just submit them to us, and then we can--
Matt: Yeah, we'll figure it out! Anyway, guys, thank you so much! Let's get to the game!
Taliesin: Thank you! Cool!
Sam: Guys, guys, the chatroom just solved the Israeli-Palestinian conflict! (laughter)
Matt: Thank you so much, chat! Nice.
Taliesin: We've got a box of stuff coming right for you right now. Thank you.
Marisha: Oh my god, I'm like, shaking.
Matt: All right, so. For all who didn't get 'em, we'll have more soon, I promise.
Liam: Do you guys like D&D? What is that?
Marisha: (laughs) We didn't know if people liked our show or not!
Matt: So. So. So, you've housed yourselves into this enchanting room, this magical laboratory, and taken about a 15-minute rest. You're able to use any of your unused hit dice to heal yourself up if need be. Any--
Ashley: Oh, well, where's everybody at? 'Cause maybe I can just do a-- some healing up.
Taliesin: I just spent a healing surge, so.
Laura: Well, he's, well, as far as health goes--
Liam: I'm low, yeah, I'm pretty low.
Ashley: Yeah, what are you at?
Matt: How many hit dice do you have left?
Liam: I know, I have, I don't have that many left. I'm at, like-- I accidentally erased it, but I believe I'm at 30?
Ashley: Ooh, yeah, you-- I need to, I'll get on that. Anybody else? What's everybody at?
Sam: I can sing to you and give you an extra little roll.
Liam: I'd like you to sing to me, either in the game or on another day.
Sam: Are you Vex or Vax? (laughs)
Liam: I'm Vix.
Sam: All right, I'll sing to you and-- are you gonna use a dice?
Liam: Thank you. Ah, let me see how beautiful your song is
Sam: (sings) Heal the Vax, make him a better elf.
Sam: (sings) For you and for me and the entire adventuring band.
Ashley: (sings) For you and for me and the entire adventuring band.
Sam: (sings) There are duergar dying, if you cared enough for the adventurers, you'd bring Vax back to help us with the stabby-stab. Thank you, thank you, thank you.
Liam: And please, vaccinate your kids. (laughter)
Liam: I mean, don't Vax-inate them.
Matt: Yeah, there's the difference. All right, so.
Sam: You get a 1d6 for that.
Matt: So, an extra 1d6 healing to anyone.
Liam: Who needs more than one? Three, okay.
Ashley: I healed you, 18, which was actually low, but I rolled really high for each roll. That's my--
Liam: Oh, thanks. That's very good. Okay, great, I am almost tip-top condition, thank you. I have a blister.
Matt: So, as you guys manage to pull yourself out of your rest mode, you now glance out, and the hallway's still quiet, you can hear the movement of footsteps up above you. What is your intent?
Sam: To win!
Marisha: Okay. Wait, what are we gonna do, 'cause here's-- there's an army waiting upstairs for us?
Liam: They know we're up there, but Kima needs her stuff, and we need to kind of put an end to this problem.
Marisha: I'm gonna hop out of tiger form, by the way, since we rested and stuff.
Sam: Wait, they're above us?
Liam: Yeah, they're all upstairs, including the mind flayer who vanished from the room we're in, so I'm sure he told everyone what's going on. But they don't know we've found the secret entrance, so I think we should go-- Vex'ahlia's correct, we should use the stairwell near the secret entrance.
Orion: Are we sure there's no other way out of here, through this particular floor? Is that the only exit?
Laura: There's-- I mean, there's the front entrance, there's that door over there, there's like two other stairways, but we should use this back one, by the back entrance.
Liam: Also, Lady Kima, our purpose here was to find you, but your purpose is somewhat greater than our own. What do you suggest we do in this moment?
Matt: As she stands up, and she holds the greatsword and swings it a bit. "What I'm seeking lies deeper into this cavern. Whatever is at the heart of this illithid scourge." And she glances over at Clarota-- who's in the back corner, hands folded-- and there's a slight mental hiss sound in her direction. "There's something far darker at the heart of this temple. I've seen it. But I have my thoughts and my ideas, but I need confirmation before I speak of any doom-saying. However, the link between those foul creatures and the assault that's currently mounting against Kraghammer lie upstairs at the center of this duergar people."
Sam: Oh, here? Here at-- where we are now? Yes, here?
Matt: "The link between this K'varn character--"
Liam: And let me ask you this. We can be on the same page, we can go up and fuck shit up. However, your weapons and armor-- would they be a great help? Should they be our short-term purpose, or should we just go up and try to end this problem?
Matt: "To be honest, we've entirely lost the element of surprise. I would not wish to sacrifice as foolishly for a few additional trinkets of my own when I feel that this should do well enough, as long as we manage to work together and be smart about this."
Laura: So we should potentially just leave this castle for now and go find K'varn, rest up--
Sam: No, no, no.
Liam: No, Kima is saying this is the main event.
Sam: She just said there's a link upstairs. The link from-- to K'varn that we need to--
Laura: I get it! Okay. Yeah.
Matt: "How do you think K'varn is able to send these armies up again and again towards the back door of Kraghammer?"
Laura: Right.
Matt: "Besides, if we go on and leave them as they are, who's to say they wouldn't come up behind us, and then we're fighting a two-sided front once we get there?"
Laura: Then let's-- We gotta go upstairs.
Liam: Vox Machina, our years are short. Let's make good use of them.
Sam: Let's leave this decision up to Grog.
Orion: Absolutely not! (laughter)
Matt: Grog's standing there clutching his greataxe. "I say, I haven't been able to kill much since we got here. Let's kill something!"
Orion: That's a terrible idea.
Laura: Have some ale before we go out, Grog.
Matt: "Oh, yeah, of course." And he goes into his bag of holding, and pulls out his now half-empty cask, and you see him frown as he hears it clink around. He pours everyone a small drink, to what is now an empty cask.
Laura: This could potentially kill us all.
Travis: Vox Machina.
All: Vox Machina!
Laura: Scanlan had a great idea, though. Should we talk about what Scanlan wants to do?
Sam: Ah, yes, I have an idea. But also, are there two stairs up to the top floor?
Liam: There's multiple.
Sam: Perhaps we should use more than one. One, half of our band go up, create a diversion. The other half sneak up and kill, kill, kill. That's one option. The other option--
Liam: Pike leads the diversion group.
Ashley: Definitely the stealthy ones with me. (laughter)
Sam: Ah, I do have an idea about gaining the upper hand on our first meeting with this army that's upstairs. An intimidation technique of some sort.
Marisha: You're not going to kill another pony, are you?
Sam: I can't anymore.
Marisha: Good.
Sam: Much as I would love to. No, but we've heard over our eavesdropping that some of these duergar bastards are scared of that strange chimera sort of hodgepodge, human centipede thing? We could be one of those with a little bit of deception, and all of us sort of piling on each other. We could act like a big scary monster and go up and freak the fuck out of them.
Marisha: Ah! That's actually a really good idea.
Laura: -- all of us piled on Grog and Trinket and you as the bases, and we become this--
Sam: They would probably be, at least for the moment, intimidated a bit, and we could get a few licks in before they realized we're just a pile of idiots running at them. (laughter)
Laura: I like it.
Marisha: So we're basically gonna be like three kids Little Rascals-style on each other's shoulders with a giant coat?
Sam: But that could be the diversion, at least.
Marisha: Okay, well then, why don't-- I actually like this idea. Why don't we have a few of our stealthy members, why don't we have the twins be in the shadows, and picking people off while--
Laura: That's true, 'cause I've got range, so that makes sense.
Marisha: Right, why don't we have some of our ranged people-- I'll transform. I can transform into-- how about a giant scorpion? That sounds fun.
Sam: Can you transform into anything?
Marisha: I can transform into beasts. They have to be beasts.
Sam: How about the type of beast that we know would scare them, like that big triceratops thing that we saw with the big metal thing on it.
Marisha: I can be a rhinoceros-- I can be, like-- Can I do dinosaurs? I can be a dinosaur, right? That's a new thing I can be, right?
Matt: Up to a certain point.
Liam: What if you were a scorpion, with a dragonborn tail sliding around and a gnome on your front leg and a--
Marisha: Well here's, oh wait wait, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, hang on, hang on, hang on, this might be crazy-- wonder what would happen if I drank that weird yellowish potion? While I'm a monster?
Laura: No, It could be poison, though.
Marisha: But I'm wondering if you can, like, if I can transform into a monster and then you with Polymorph can maybe just transform.
Orion: Stop talking, stop talking! Hold on. (laughter)
Marisha: You don't have to snap at me.
Orion: No, no, no, you're brilliant, your highness.
Marisha: Oh, thank you. I mean.
Orion: I have an idea, I have an idea.
Liam: We're off the rails, here.
Laura: Tell it to us, Tiberius, what's the idea?
Sam: Does it involve shitting on a bed? (laughter)
Orion: Eventually, actually, yes.
Taliesin: Aren't you empty yet?
Orion: This is what's going to happen. As far as we know, they're all duergar up there, correct?
Laura: Mostly, except for the mind flayers. And another big monster probably, they might have--
Ashley: Which I saw in a vision. I think that's what's controlling them
Laura: Oh no, that's K'varn. No, no, no, he's at the other one.
Ashley: Sorry, read it wrong.
Orion: This is what will happen. Those who can go stealth, we will creep up there. I will go invisible myself. I will be in front. You closely behind me.
Sam: He has a name.
Orion: Vax. There we go. You closely behind me, and whoever else can stealth follows suit. I will cast Alter Self and turn myself into their god.
Sam: Their god?
All: K'varn?
Marisha: But you don't know what he looks like.
Laura: Oh, or into that other thingie.
Orion: I absolutely know what he looks like.
Matt: You mean Laduguer?
Orion: We just saw his statue.
Marisha: Well. that's not K'varn though.
Orion: But that's who they worship. As I give my, whatever the hell I come up with to say at that particular time--
Sam: Maybe you should think it first, think it through first.
Orion: As soon as the mind flayers catch on, and I turn to Clarota, and I turn to Kima, that's when all of you will strike at them first. The rest of you will wait 'til I shoot off a couple of Fireballs at the duergar once they figure out we're full of crap. 'Cause I'm sure that might happen unless I'm super convincing, which I hope that's the case-- But I think that's our best bet to keep a certain element of surprise.
Marisha: So wait, so wait, are you going to be their god, and I'm still going to also be a crazy monster, as like your pet crazy monster, with our stealthy team, or just--
Taliesin: I think the only thing better than their god would be their god on top of a giant scorpion.
Laura: Ooh!
Marisha: Ooh!
Liam: I have faith in you, Tiberius.
Marisha: You'll be like Xerxes.
Ashley: Can I cast, 'cause I've been wanting to use Thaumaturgy. Which can make your voice three times as louder.
Matt: At the moment he would be speaking, yeah.
Ashley: At the moment he'd be speaking, okay, so let's do that.
Laura: Oh, that's going to be so cool.
Marisha: Some theatrics.
Liam: I love it when a good plan comes together.
Sam: So some of us are stealthing, you're being a big god who talks loud and is riding a scorpion.
Ashley: So maybe I'll tuck behind him, on top of you the scorpion, and then when you're getting ready to talk I'll just (whoosh) and then you'll-- your voice will be, you know, you'll have--
Liam: Yeah, that's good, that's good.
Sam: How about this-- so, just to clarify, are we all going up the same staircase, or are we going up two separate staircases, Vex and Vax--
Laura: I think we should just go up the same staircase. There's too many of them. If we split up we could just all die.
Sam: You don't know what-- there could be a million rooms up there.
Liam: We have no idea what's up there, but Tiberius has got a plan, I like it.
Laura: If he's the god, we just go in behind him as the god.
Ashley: What if we did like your Dimension Door? Is it too not very god-like if he's coming up the staircase like, hey?
Sam: The Dimension Door's off the table.
Liam: Tiberius, Tiberius. Tibs.
Sam: But don't use the god thing. But don't use the god thing until we get to the big group. The big thing, if you see a guard, don't turn into a god, you gotta see like more than five people before you turn into a god.
Liam: Tiberius.
Orion: Yes, Vax?
Liam: Do you intend to go up one of the other stairways? I believe this one by the entrance, the secret entrance we came in, will afford us the element of surprise. Do you think you want to go up one of the others?
Orion: No, let's go up that one.
Liam: And make a distraction, right? Your plan is to make a distraction.
Orion: Yes, of course.
Liam: You're a brave dragonborn.
Marisha: I'm going to cast Pass Without a Trace on the party. Everyone stay close.
Liam: Who's the stealth party, not you, you and me, you.
Marisha: Well, all of us, all of us I guess, until we get upstairs.
Laura: Potentially all of us will be stealthed except for Tiberius, and you who is a scorpion, and you who's riding behind Tiberius.
Ashley: I'm riding on her, so I probably won't be rolling for stealth.
Matt: Uh.
Ashley: Just kidding.
Matt: You'll be rolling.
Ashley: I probably won't roll well, just putting it out there.
Matt: You hear in the back of your mind this subtle, soft, echoing chuckle. "You're all crazy. I like it." (laughter)
Matt: At which point, Kima, who's listening to all this with a look of kind of awe and curiosity says, "You know, for once? I actually agree with the thing." (laughter)
Matt: "All right." Takes her greatsword in her hands. "Lead the way."
Ashley: So you guys are stealthing up first?
Marisha: We all have Pass Without a Trace as long as you stand close enough.
Liam: Wait, wait for the inspiration.
Sam: I have some inspiration dice to give out, that I can give out as bonus actions. Can I give it out before we go into battle?
Matt: I would say like momentarily, right beforehand.
Sam: Okay, good to know. But I can't mass give it out, just have to give it to one person.
Matt: It's one of those things where it has to be in the moment when the adrenaline's pumping, I think, for it to last into the combat.
Sam: Okay, and do we want to send Clarota and Kima off through a different staircase so we have at least a backup plan?
Laura: No, no, no stick together. Too big of a group of an army upstairs to split us up.
Liam: Don't split the party.
Sam: In those action movies, when there's one guy who goes away for a while, he comes back at the end and saves the day. If we did that--
Laura: That's not going to be us!
Liam: We few, we happy few. (laughter)
Liam: About to go and do something very stupid. Let's do it.
Matt: So you are venturing up which stairway?
Laura: The secret one, the one by-- in the storage room.
Matt: All right. So. You guys--
Marisha: We got this. We got this.
Laura: Oh no, Grog fell over. Oh my gosh.
Marisha: It's been a good day. What are you going to say? Are you thinking about this? Think about something.
Orion: Okay.
Marisha: Start thinking about this now.
Liam: There are rooms up there.
Taliesin: What's the name of the god again?
Marisha: Laduguer.
Ashley: Can I take off my armor right now?
Matt: You'd become a soft target. All right, you guys all make your way up, and you're all squeezing into this tiny, tiny room. You're all shoulder-to-shoulder, essentially. You come up to the top area, there's a small box, and there is just a single stone door.
Laura: Check for traps.
Liam: Excuse me, sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry, excuse me Kima, sorry, sorry, All right, my hands are on the door. I'm going to check for traps on this door. I get a 21.
Matt: Okay, you take a moment and you place your hand along this stone surface. You find that there's a low hum to it.
Liam: Careful, careful, careful.
Matt: And you can tell that there's a small, almost like a thin whisper of string laid across the very top of the stone, where the wall meets it.
Liam: Of course I can, of course I can. I'm going to take care of this, hold on. Yeah, this is thieves' tools, correct? 26.
Matt: 26, okay. You come up and you find that this is a very, very fine hair trigger. This is actually a partial enchantment as part of a magical trap. You know that with the slightest hint of false vibration to it, the door shifting or hitting it in the wrong place will trigger whatever this trap is. And so you bring your tools up, you manage to place one at the base of each point at where this arcane silver thread lies across. Simultaneously, you take your daggers and place them underneath the thread at each ends and sever them both at the same time. The thin whisper of a string just slowly glides down and vanishes into a small sparkle of light.
Sam: Cut the red wire.
Liam: I'm just going to lay my ear on the door and see what I can hear. That is 21.
Matt: Hearing it, you hear what sounds like a low mutter of somewhere in the neighbourhood of ten to 15 low voices, and the slow, small shuffling of many, many, many, many footsteps.
Liam: Shuffling, you said? And if I listen for a moment, do I-- does it continue?
Matt: It, kind of, couple of footsteps, some talking, soft footprints. You can hear the scraping of metal--
Liam: And it's the only way we can go is through this door, right? We're all smooshed into this hallway--
Matt: There is a hallway this way.
Laura: Oh, so we stealth down the other hall, we try.
Liam: So I mooshed everyone away from this hall.
Matt: The whispers and voices aren't directly on the other side of this wall, they're just in that room echoing through, but you do hear a lot of people there. All right, so, what are you doing?
Laura: Well, well, stealthing down that hallway. Can we check for traps, check for traps, I look, I'm perceiving.
Matt: (laughs) Roll for perceiving (laughter)
Liam: 23 for Vax.
Laura: Oh, I get twice that, good. Oh, good, that was way better.
Matt: (laughs)
Laura: Ten.
Matt: Okay, no traps.
Laura: Yay!
Matt: You both glide your way up and peek around the corner. What you see immediately are six duergar all stationed in this hallway guarding what looks like two large doors and entrance to this main chamber. And they're all just standing there, weapons ready, looking around.
Sam: Wait, which is the main chamber that you just--
Matt: This big chamber here that you--
Sam: Oh, that we were listening to at the door.
Liam: Vax sneaks back to the group and motions Tiberius over, and Keyleth over.
Sam: We're doing this?
Liam: One moment, one moment. Lightning, Lightning, who knows Lightning?
Marisha: Are you gonna try to Lightning Bolt an entire line?
Liam: Do you know the magic of lightning? I've seen you do it before, I've seen you.
Marisha: I do know it right now.
Liam: You know it? Anyone who knows Lightning, I've seen it done on the battlefield with us, person to person to person.
Sam: I can do it.
Matt: Who is up once again, clearing his throat in your presence.
Sam: Hi! Scanlan here.
Liam: Scanlan, you know how to harness the power of electricity.
Sam: I don't wanna brag, but I'm a regular Ben Franklin over here. He's a guy, he's a gnome I knew once.
Marisha: Scanlan, can you and I focus our Call Lightning spells together? To Lightning these--
Sam: I mean, mine's so fricking powerful.
Liam: If Scanlan and one of the others does Lightning at the same time and it goes through that line, we could drop them all at once.
Laura: But that's noisy, they'll come out.
Liam: It's not that noisy, it's not like armor banging around.
Laura: I think it's gonna be noisy, it's not a stealthy attack.
Taliesin: It's a quick way to get rid of six people, though.
Orion: Oh, is that what we need to do?
Liam: There's a row of duergar around the corner, they're all in a line like Radio City, we just-- if I can get-- Scanlan, if you-- what about you, Keyleth? Do I remember light-- or do you bring it down from above? Tiberius.
Orion: What, what?
Sam: Do you want me to shock 'em?
Orion: Oh, I have an idea. Okay, I'll peek around.
Matt: Okay, make a stealth check.
Orion: Sweet.
Marisha: You have plus ten because of my Pass Without a Trace.
Liam: You've got six duergar in a row. Is there anything you can do that's--
Orion: 27.
Matt: That's when you see this long row of duergar that are all kind of armored and ready, guarding the front of this chamber.
Orion: I cast Watery Sphere at the end of the last guy and create a giant ball.
Liam: Wait, you're doing it now?
Orion: What does it look like, Vax?
Matt: Okay, so this giant water sphere appears. At which side of the wall?
Orion: On the last guy. Yeah, and I draw it towards us.
Liam: Vax is grabbing the gnome and tossing him out to the right, out here at the front of the group.
Orion: And I stop at the last guy.
Matt: Okay, as the water sphere begins to pull in. Saving throws, what's your DC?
Orion: My spell DC, 17.
Matt: This is a dexterity save? All right.
Sam: One at a time.
Matt: All of them fail! (cheering)
Marisha: This is gonna be cool, this is gonna be cool. It's gonna put them all in one spot.
Sam: They were already in a line.
Marisha: No, now we can electrocute them and they're wet!
Matt: There is now an entire clustered sphere of water that is containing a mishmash of duergar.
Marisha: Lightning Bolt!
Matt: Call Lightning. All right, so, as Keyleth, you step forward, out in the hallway, you bring your arm up and there's this small cluster of dark clouds beginning to form and swirl up on the top of the 20-foot hallway. As it swirls, you bring your arm downward, and there's a sudden crack of thunder, a loud blasting sound that echoes through the hallway. As the lightning strikes the center of the sphere, the water itself bursts as the actual cacophonous blast of the lightning loosely shakes the aquatic sphere. However, go ahead and roll damage.
Marisha: Do I get any more damage because of the--
Matt: You get an additional two dice of damage to each one of the duergar because they are contained in the water.
Orion: Yeah!
Marisha: So 5d10?
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: Do I roll for each one?
Matt: You just roll once, and that's across the board for all of them, and they are at a disadvantage because they are in the sphere.
Marisha: Oh, and they're at a disadvantage?
Orion: Yeah, yeah, because I'm like holding them up.
Marisha: All right.
Matt: It's really funny, because two of them rolled 20s in a row, but they're at a disadvantage.
Marisha: Nice. Not too shabby. So we have ten, 19 plus 18, bringing it to 28 plus three, 31 plus one. 32.
Matt: Okay. So the sphere explodes, the actual stone on the ground you can feel shake and shudder with the impact of the lightning storm. All but one of the duergar are blown apart and scattered across the wall Akira-style, just (splat) against the walls. One of them is still in the center of the sphere, now looking charred and burnt, and eyes wide open with anger and frustration.
Marisha: Scanlan, go!
Sam: I say, (chants) you ugly, you ugly, yo mama says you ugly! And I cast Vicious Mockery. (laughter)
Matt: He rolled a 14 vs the DC which I think is--
Sam: 19.
Matt: All right, how much total did you do?
Sam: Just a five.
Matt: How much did you do, total?
Marisha: 32, total.
Matt: Hold on. So as the duergar is currently held aloft in this aquatic sphere, half-charred and burnt with pieces of his friends floating in the water around him, he hears through this kind of warbling sound, "You ugly, you ugly," and he sees everyone kind of step in the hallway clapping with you, and he kind of looks around at himself, looks at his situation... and eventually just gives up and takes a big old gulp of water and drowns inside the aquatic sphere. (laughter)
Sam: Yes! I shamed him to death
Ashley: Amazing.
Marisha: (laughs) What a terrible way to die.
Matt: Good news is, you guys royally screwed over six duergar, one of which you shamed him to death. (laughter)
Matt: You have definitely, however, announced your presence at the chamber.
Liam: Vax spanks Tiberius on the tail and says, get ready to deity! Going stealth.
Marisha: I say-- I go, get on my back, get on my back, and I piggyback him.
Matt: You transform?
Orion: I do.
Matt: No, Marisha, did you transform?
Marisha: Well I'm piggybacking him, just now. I'm literally just piggybacking Tiberius waiting.
Matt: Okay, so Tiberius, you leap onto her back.
Orion: Mm-hm, and I cast Alter Self, and I turn to--
Liam: Scanlan, Vex.
Ashley: I'm going to cast the thing on him.
Matt: Okay, so you cast Thaumaturgy on him to give him a vocal emphasis, a roaring, booming voice. Do you stay with him or do you move back with the rest of the group?
Marisha: Oh, oh, Pike Pike Pike Pike Pike. What kind of animal would this god use? Would you know what kind of animal the duergar would worship? Do you know?
Orion: It's a religion check.
Matt: Religion check.
Marisha: What kind of animals he might like? You know, check out-- you know, animals.
Ashley: 14.
Matt: You have no idea. You know the deity exists, you don't know of any sort of animal, beast or creature symbolism that would befit a duergar god.
Ashley: I have no idea.
Marisha: I guess a scorpion, a scorpion sounds good? Scorpion. Giant Scorpion.
Matt: Keyleth's form shifts. As you see a bunch of arachnid-like legs sprawl out the side of her torso, her form condenses into a dark, chitinous shell as two giant claws form out the side of her body, and a giant poison stinger curls up from behind. Tiberius kind of holds on during the transformation--
Ashley: I'm going to go back, because if they see me, then they'll know something's fishy.
Matt: All right, the rest of you are here. So. You feel this kind of divine energy cascade around your throat. You can feel your vocal cords themselves are temporarily infused with some sort of divine presence. You've transformed yourself now into the visage of this duergar deity. Standing at probably a good-- what height are you going at?
Orion: How tall are the--
Matt: The duergar are about four-and-a-half feet tall.
Orion: So let's make him six feet tall.
Matt: All right, six-foot-tall duergar standing there.
Laura: The two of us get back by the other twin door, and get ready to bust into that entrance.
Sam: I'm with them. We're the stealth party.
Liam: I'm in fact nudging Grog away from this door towards the front towards Tiberius. I don't know, they're not that strong.
Matt: What are you doing? Grog says, "Which way, which way do I go?"
Liam: Vax kicks Grog in the butt and sends him forward. Go help Tiberius!
Matt: "I'm walking back for you."
Laura: Grog, don't do that. Not that far. Grog, come back, because if they see him--
Orion: No, stay in the corner, Grog. Wait 'til I say help me, and then come kill everything.
Matt: He looks like he's listening. Mostly. (laughter)
Marisha: Back him up. Back him up.
Matt: You hear shifting in the doorway from the front where you guys are. What's the plan? What's doing what?
Sam: Who's going in first?
Orion: Is this going to be the entrance where we're going in?
Laura: Yeah you bust in and be a god.
Marisha: Oh, are we busting in?
Laura: When you give it, we'll go in the other way.
Marisha: Fuck if I know.
Orion: That's your job. Bust the door open.
Matt: All right, go ahead and make an athletics check.
Liam: I'm simultaneously checking our door for-- no, I already did. It's unlocked, and untrapped. Never mind.
Marisha: Giant scorpion. Athletics. Plus my dex, I'm assuming?
Matt: No, plus your strength.
Marisha: Strength, that's pretty cool, though. 22.
Matt: A 22.
Marisha: I rolled a 19.
Matt: All right, the doors splinter open. The doors are actually broken off the hinges.
Orion: As that happens, I cast Light and I cast Prestidigitation.
Sam: Concentrate. Don't cast too much shit.
Orion: I can't hear what's going on. I hear some annoyances in the background as I cast Prestidigitation to make my voice louder.
Laura: No, she already did it. It's three times louder than it normally would be.
Orion: Oh, shit.
Marisha: So just keep focusing on your Light.
Matt: As you guys come bursting in--
Liam: Holy shit.
Laura: Yeah, there's a lot of them.
Marisha: Maybe do some Prestidigitation where you move shit around.
Ashley: Oh ho ho. What!
Marisha: Oh! Hello, everybody.
Liam: (Grog voice) I would like to rage.
Laura: (Grog voice) I would like to rage.
Laura: Oh, no. Basilisks!
Liam: What?
Laura: Those thingies!
Marisha: Oh, that's right, they have those pet basilisks. Remember?
Matt: So the doors burst open and you guys come through. All of the duergar stand there with their weapons at the ready. You can see in the back, on this raised platform, where the cloth stops, there is two thrones, at the top two duergar sitting on the thrones at the ready. You can see two kind of lizard-like creatures in the back on chained leashes. However, all of the duergar that are ready to strike as you burst through, take a step back, looking extremely confused about what's going on.
Orion: (shouts) Silence! All of you, silence!
Sam: We weren't talking.
Orion: Who knows who I am?
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Marisha: Get it. Get it. Get it.
Liam: Yep. Yep yep yep yep. Vax is quietly moving along the back wall.
Sam: Our door is open?
Liam: It is now.
Laura: Yeah we're going to try to stealth in and sneak attack them.
Orion: 16.
Laura: Oh god. Oh god.
Matt: Okay. The duergar in the front take another step back, looking both frightened and awed. The one nearest to you takes his hammer and throws it to the ground, and takes a knee.
Orion: Well, it looks like there's one saved soul at this point in time.
Matt: At which point two of the other ones nearby kind of look at each other and look back at the one who's on on the ground. They put their hammers down, and they kneel as well. At which point, in the back, you see the two throned figures stand up. One of which you can barely see in the dim light outside of your Light spell that's currently gleaming above you. This long, almost-touching-the-floor black, braided beard that drags right over this heavy-set plate of jagged black iron metal. A giant sword in his hand. "You're kneeling below this false idol."
Orion: Silence!
Matt: "This imposter!"
Orion: As I cast-- As I say silence, I blow a big plume of fire out of my mouth, and I cast Control Flames.
Matt: So the light (pff).
Orion: I don't cast Control Flames. I just do the Fireball for effect. I don't do Control Flames, because that's a concentration spell.
Matt: All right, so you do Fireball. Where are you casting Fireball? Or just doing it to do it?
Orion: Just (fwoosh).
Matt: Plume of flame. Roll an intimidation check.
Taliesin: You guys, what are you doing right now?
Liam: I'm moving along the back wall. I want that illithid.
Orion: 18.
Matt: Okay. Make a stealth check. Who else is going in there with him?
Laura: I go in and stand at the walls next to the door.
Liam: 32.
Matt: Okay, your stealth roll?
Ashley: I'm so stressed.
Marisha: I know! I feel like I'm going to have a heart attack.
Matt: So you rolled a--
Orion: 18.
Matt: Okay, you can see this figure-- which you are gathering at this point is probably King Murghol-- still holding his sword aloft, looks back towards his wife who's sitting in the throne next to him, who is just standing up kind of confused.
Orion: That's right, boy. I am Laduguer! You know, and you know your deeds as of late might upset my rest.
Matt: All of the duergar are now looking over their shoulders back towards the king and watching this transpire between the two of you.
Orion: (shouts) All of you, lay down your arms!
Laura: 32.
Matt: 32. You're moving in, everyone else staying in the hallway?
Ashley: I'm not moving. I'm like this!
Matt: As you guys push in further and further, the group that are kneeling move back in sheer fear and horror. At which point the king takes a step down off of the throne area onto the next platform, weapons still at his side and says, "Men, I've trained you. I've raised you. I've fed you and I've kept you alive."
Orion: And I don't care for you to finish that sentence! I cast Fireball. Right fucking-- Right on him.
Sam: That's an attack right there.
Orion: Of course it is!
Matt: So the blast hits him and a 20-foot radius that will grab everything in that radius. Including you. So go ahead and roll damage. 8d6.
Liam: It's all right.
Marisha: 8d6.
Liam: Heal me, Pike, heal me. Heal me in three minutes, heal me. This is gonna hurt. This is gonna sting.
Marisha: Oh, god damn. Come on, you got this. You got this, Vax.
Sam: You want it to be a lot, but not too much. (laughter)
Liam: A little less than 55.
Orion: Uh, 25.
Matt: 25, okay.
Orion: Oh, I'm sorry, 30.
Matt: Okay, good. So it explodes around them. You see all of them kind of shield themselves from the blast of flame. As it spreads out--
Liam: Wait, I'm doing the rogue thing that I can't remember the name for.
Laura: Uncanny Dodge?
Marisha: Uncanny Dodge?
Liam: No, it's something else.
Orion: Quickly. Quickly.
Matt: So while you're looking that up-- The duergar brace themselves and they have an innate natural resistance against things magical in nature.
Liam: Evasion!
Matt: So they all take the brunt of the damage, however, it does not do as much as you hoped to the group. All of them look hurt, but definitely not taken out of the fight. The two lizard creatures you now have a better look at, you do see it's familiar. They have numerous sets of legs, and though the chains hold them at bay, both of them glance up instinctually. I want you, Tiberius, to make two constitution saving throws.
Sam: Traps.
Orion: Yes.
Liam: DM. Evasion, if I make a success I get half-damage, if I fail I get-- If I fail, I get half-damage, if I succeed I get no damage. I think I failed. I got a nine.
Matt: Yeah you take half-damage. So you take the-- What was the total damage on your Fireball? So you take 15 points of fire damage. So as you glance about the room now, you look over and both of these lizard creatures kind of look towards you. You kind of look back and forth-- there's a slight gleam in their eye. Suddenly you feel your form begin to tighten up, instant. You are considered restrained, which means you are at disadvantage to all your attack rolls and ability checks for right now.
Orion: Hold on, I still have a bonus attack I can do before that happens, correct?
Matt: No, this is as it's happening. Your turn is still happening.
Orion: I got it.
Matt: This is all kind of a fluid moment. Things happen as they happen until initiative is being rolled, which is now. So everyone roll initiative.
Marisha: Sneaky sneaky.
Laura: Oh, great.
Matt: All right, so, 25 to 20?
Sam: Natural 20.
Matt: Plus your--
Sam: Nothing.
Matt: Plus nothing for dex. Okay.
Sam: Oh, for dex. Plus nothing.
Matt: Okay, so 25 to 20?
Taliesin: 23.
Liam: 21.
Matt: 21, all right, all right.
Taliesin: Yeah. Sneak attack.
Matt: All righty, 20 to 15?
Laura: 19.
Orion: 17.
Matt: All right, 15 to ten?
Marisha: I'm nine.
Ashley: Five. Not to brag.
Marisha: (laughs) Big number five.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: I just noticed your shirt. It's really great.
Sam: Guys, tune in every week for this kind of intense action.
Laura: Unless we're all dead next week. In which case--
Liam: -- Mama put the coins on my eyes.
Matt: All right, that brings us to top of the round. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm going to hold off until-- I'm actually going to delay my turn until post-Pike.
Orion: Can I still yell out shit while this is happening? Even though it isn't my turn?
Matt: I mean, you can yell like one thing.
Taliesin: I'm loud and I've got range, so I'm going to let the room fill, and then I'm going to come in and get some.
Orion: As this is all going down, I'm going to yell, those who want to live, throw down your arms. That's what I do.
Matt: Okay. That brings us back to the top. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay, I use my bonus action to click my boots of haste together. And I tap-dance over to the illithid, and I'm going to use two daggers to stab him in his eyeballs.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: First one hits, it's 18.
Matt: It is a critical because it does not see you and has not acted yet this combat.
Liam: Yeah it is. So I just take my keen dagger and I shove it in his eyeball. 1d4 is two, plus--
Marisha: Feel like I'm going to have a heart attack.
Taliesin: We're going to be fine. It's nothing we can't handle.
Marisha: Nothing we can't handle.
Liam: 19, 28, plus 36 is the first dagger into his eyeball.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Second dagger also hits for a little less, for seven points of fire damage in his other eyeball.
Matt: All right. Gotcha. So the first one actually jams into one of its eyes. It didn't even see you, it recoils back, slapping your hand back out of the way. The other dagger strikes and just gleans off its shoulder. However, it turns around with its other eye and it definitely knows you're there.
Liam: I'd like to circulate my hands to kind of carve out the eyeball area. (laughter)
Matt: No, it pushed you off.
Liam: Yeah, okay, okay, it's all right.
Matt: All right. That brings us to Grog.
Sam: (Grog voice) I would like to rage.
Liam: (Grog voice) I would like to go to a whore house.
Matt: He goes into a rage. And Grog is going to go ahead and take his axe with the chain on it and throw it toward the first duergar he sees, which is right here. Throws it. All right, that is a-- That's going to miss. He rolled a four. Swings past. He's going to make an athletics check to see if he can bring it back. That he succeeds. So he throws the axe. It swings past the duergar, clangs to the ground, uses his chain, he yanks it back, catches it in his hand. His turn is spent, however. Next up is Scanlan.
Sam: I step into the room, lining myself up with those two pig, creature, beast things. In a line. Yeah. Can I also catch the king or no?
Matt: No, it has to be a line. It has to go straight.
Sam: Going for the guys. I don't want to scald you. You're already hurting. I'm going to go straight across the piggies and make them squeal with Lightning.
Matt: All right. At the start of your turn--
Sam: Oh shit, there's a trap.
Matt: No, at the start of your turn you come up and the creature looks over and you guys make eye contact. You weren't averting your gaze. Go ahead and make a constitution save.
Liam: Saving throw, saving throw. Come on, Scanlan, you lucky motherfucker! Roll high.
Sam: 17, plus what?
Matt: Plus your constitution modifier.
Sam: 19.
Matt: All right, so, as it glances over at you, there's a shine in its eye, and you feel all of a sudden your form, for a second, tense, and you shrug off the effect, untouched by it. Now, go ahead and take your turn.
Sam: I cast Lightning on the two beasts. In a straight line.
Matt: Okay, so you pull back and you unleash a lightning bolt. It goes streaking across the room.
Sam: If I can get the king, I'll try.
Matt: Unfortunately, he's just out of the line array, but it does streak across and blast both of these now visibly basilisks in front of you. You hit automatically. Just go ahead and roll damage. (laughter)
Marisha: Oh sweet, sweet dice rolls.
Liam: Let it rain!
Marisha: Let it rain d6s from the sky!
Sam: 29.
Matt: 29. One fails its saving throw, one makes it. So 29 damage to one, and 14 to the other.
Sam: And then, for bonus action, I inspire Vax with a little ditty.
Matt: All right.
Sam: (sings) I want to sing a song of inspiration, of inspiration! (laughter)
Matt: All righty, that's it. That ends Scanlan's turn. King Murghol's turn, now. King Murghol is going to-- It sees this blast of lightning streak past now, as it blasts, just barely passing in front of it, hitting both of his pet basilisks. Now seeing that there's, like, a full army between himself and the current intruders, one of which is visibly stiffening, he glances over at this tiny gnome individual, who now gave loose to this bolt of energy. Grabs his blade with both hands and goes running towards you with an angry-- but he uses a bonus action, quickly, to pull out a vial, pop a cork, chug it, shatter the glass on the ground. As he does, you can see his arms actually billow and grow extremely strong and thick with muscle.
Marisha: What color was the vial?
Laura: What color was the vial?
Matt: This was purplish in color. He then runs forward. And is going to take his turn, swinging at Scanlan.
Sam: As he does, I sing (sings) Dodge that sexy attack-oh white boy. (laughter)
Sam: I sing my-- what is it called? Counter-- Cutting Word-- no, yes, what? Cutting Words! And I try to distract him as he's attacking me. What is that, a d8?
Matt: A d8 off of his first attack.
Sam: Five.
Matt: Five. Okay, well, he rolled a 20, which brings it down, oh, a total of 20, which brings it down to 15. What's your armor class?
Sam: 14.
Matt: Oh. Second strike is a 13. Third strike is a 12. Wow, he just can't hit at all this turn. But, however, the one strike he does get on you, the sword comes down, streaks across the front of you, and as you're finishing your last, final note of that song, you take 18 points of slashing damage.
Sam: Okay, okay, okay.
Ashley: Where you at?
Sam: I'm fine.
Ashley: Where are you at?
Sam: I'm fine. I've got more than him.
Matt: That ends his turn. This brings us back to Vex!
Laura: That's me! I cast Hunter's Mark! Actually, I just transfer it, because the other one died. I transfer it to the king. And then I cast-- First I want to move Trinket over and-- oh no, I can only move Trinket. Okay, first I'm gonna cast Conjure Barrage. It's a 60-foot cone. So I want to see how many of them I can get.
Matt: You can, you can get-- let's see. That'll get everybody.
Laura: Can I angle it so I don't hit my buddies?
Matt: You can angle it in a way that will-- well, if you wanna get the king in it, you're going to hit these two here. And Grog.
Laura: All right, I'll hit them.
Matt: Okay, so, you will be able to hit everything in that row. So go for it. How does the effect on that work?
Laura: I roll 3d8.
Matt: All right, so go ahead and roll 3d8.
Laura: That was on a corner. Oh good! 17.
Matt: 17, okay. And what's the effect on the spell, like what do they roll against?
Laura: They roll a dexterity saving throw.
Matt: Dexterity saving throw. King makes his, with a 20. So he takes half-damage for it, or no damage?
Laura: Half as much, yeah.
Matt: Okay, so what was the total again? It was-- What was the total originally? It was-- what was the total?
Laura: The total? Was 17.
Matt: 17. Okay, so that is eight damage to the king.
Laura: Plus a Hunter's Mark.
Matt: Right, so roll the additional one on that.
Laura: Four.
Matt: Four, gotcha. All right. The basilisk also does not make its save. What's the DC on this?
Laura: DC. What do you mean?
Matt: Your spell DC. At the top of your spell page.
Laura: Yes. It's 14.
Matt: 14.
Laura: Oh, I did get a-- I didn't add my spell attack bonus! Should I have done that?
Matt: No, that's just to hit something with a spell.
Laura: Okay, cool.
Matt: All right, so basilisk in front makes it, so it takes the eight damage. Okay, the rest of the duergar, they do make their saves, they take half damage. However, with the spray of arrows that comes flying out of the front of your bow, you manage to take out five duergar in one swipe. The others ones remain, damaged but still standing. Also, now dexterity saving throw for you, Tiberius, and Grog.
Marisha: Natural 20.
Orion: 19.
Matt: Nice. So both you guys take eight damage. Grog fails, Grog takes 17.
Laura: I'm sorry, Grog.
Matt: "It's all right." All right, Vex, is that the end of your turn?
Laura: Oh, I move Trinket in, and I want to-- If I can get him to illithid, I want to get Trinket close, like kind of behind the queen. No, no, I want to get him near. That way he can flank.
Matt: Okay, all right. That ends your turn. It is now Lady Kima's turn.
Sam: Ooh, I forgot about her.
Matt: Kima rushes in angrily. She has to make a saving throw. Succeeds against the basilisk, as it glances past. Rushes forward, in combat with both King Murghol and the basilisk. However, as she goes in for King Murghol, screaming, the blade of the greatsword arcing across the air with a divine glowing energy, you see it aiming for the king, but then looks to her side and sees this dangerous lizard creature, recognizing it in a moment, she changes her trajectory and swings next to the lizard with her first strike. That is a-- that hits. And that strike does just enough damage. She cleaves that basilisk in two with her first strike. With her first strike, using the inertia, she turns around and strikes at King Murghol. However, King Murghol, seeing her come forward, takes his sword up and manages to parry hers to the side. Both of them lock for a second as he steps into her and kind of glares into her face. "Oh, you're supposed to be downstairs for playtime." Pushes her off with his blade..
Marisha: Playtime? I don't-- (laughs) I know, all the ladies are like 'ew'.
Matt: That brings us to Queen Ulara's turn. Queen Ulara is now standing over there with Trinket towards her back. As she instinctually does this, she goes ahead and reaches up, places her hand on the front of her robes. You can see this duergar woman with kind of long, reddish hair that she's let flow to the back, to the small of her back. She stands up out of the throne. As she puts her hand on her chest, her form shimmers, much like you saw earlier on Tiberius, in your earlier battle. She moves back to there.
Orion: As she does that, I try to Counterspell it.
Matt: That's a reaction?
Orion: Yep.
Matt: Okay. So let's go ahead and do the contested roll.
Orion: Contested roll.
Sam: That was almost the name of this show. Not as catchy.
Orion: DC equals ten plus the spell's level.
Matt: Okay. So the DC is 12. Go ahead and you roll that.
Orion: DC is 13. It's a third-level spell. Right?
Matt: Blur is second-level.
Orion: Oh, I thought Counter-- Okay, I see.
Matt: Yes. So, Counterspell. Go ahead and-- Oh-- interrupt a creature in process of casting a spell. If the creature is casting a spell-- third level or lower, it fails and has no effect. So, yeah, it just counters it entirely. So, the-- her form begins to shimmer for a second. All of a sudden, Tiberius, your attempt to go ahead and counter the spell, that burst of energy you're trying to put through the Blur vanishes. She looks back at you.
Orion: What do you think you're doing, lass?
Sam: You still trying to be a god?
Orion: I'm in that form still. (laughter)
Matt: Yeah. So with her sorcery points expended on that quick cast, she turns around for her main action, puts out her fingers, and you see these blasts of blue energy begin to rocket out from her fingertips, across the room, in what is a Chain Lightning.
Liam: Shit. He's got the iPhone out.
Matt: So, this'll be towards-- actually, this'd be towards you, Vex, Kima, and Scanlan.
Laura: All right.
Liam: Did you say Vex or Vax?
Matt: Yeah, Vex and Vax, both of you.
Laura: Wait, you're all the way over there.
Sam: Yeah, you're all the way over somewhere else, right?
Matt: Over there, yeah. Chain Lightning, man. It's a bitch. All right. All right, so. Vax, go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Liam: Not good. Seven.
Matt: Seven, all right.
Liam: Can I use Evasion, or-- Uncanny Dodge or Evasion?
Sam: I gave you some dice. I gave you, I gave you some dice.
Liam: You did give me some dice.
Sam: It's not going to be enough, though.
Liam: So now I'm at 13, but can I use Evasion or Uncanny Dodge? Evasion is for area effects, Uncanny Dodge is--
Matt: Well, you've already used one for the area effect, the other one reduces the damage by half.
Liam: All right, Uncanny Dodge.
Matt: Okay, so you're reducing the damage by half?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, so instead, you take 18 points of lightning damage. However, both Vex and Scanlan and Kima all have to make dexterity saving throws as well. She makes hers.
Sam: Not great. 14. I have no dexterity.
Laura: 16.
Matt: 16, okay. So you took, was it 18 lightning damage, I said?
Liam: Oh, I didn't add any dexterity. I add a 9 to what I got, which means I'm at 22.
Matt: Just, you mean, your dexterity modifier? 22? Okay, then you would've taken half damage, make it quarter damage, so you take half of that even. So keep that in mind when you make your dexterity saving throw. So, that would give you total how much damage? So, it was 18 you took, right?
Liam: Yeah, and we halved it to nine. Five?
Matt: So, 36 damage to Scanlan and to Kima, and to you, Vex. 36 points of lightning damage. That ends her turn. Tiberius, you're up. So you, it's your turn now, as you're now on top of the scorpion still.
Ashley: It's okay.
Marisha: You're on top of me. I'm holding you!
Ashley: I got you.
Orion: Cool. This is-- there's still on the altar that's raised above-- and all that.
Taliesin: You've got a problem down there, to be fair.
Orion: Where we're at?
Taliesin: You've got the witch problem to deal with.
Matt: What do you got, Tiberius? Quick, before you miss your turn.
Orion: I shall miss nothing. I'm going to stay right where I'm at.
Matt: All right.
Orion: I'm going to snicker, and I will (laughs) hand out, put out my hand, and give my little ring a rub, and let out a Fireball from it, right where no one else but these buttholes will get hurt.
Matt: All right, so (laughs), I'd say probably a 20-foot radius around would put it about there.
Liam: (Tiberius voice) What is the Common word for it?
All: (Tiberius voice) Butthole.
Matt: So, as you polish off the ring and release it, the bead of red energy streaks across, blasting the floor, the secondary explosion, giant Fireball just bursts into the room, go ahead and roll damage on that.
Orion: Six, I have enough, there's a four, this is terrible, help me count, eight.
Marisha: Okay, well, we have all these twos. Let's put the twos side by side. That's fun. Uh-huh.
Laura: Your turns are taking so long!
Orion: 18. 23!
Matt: 23. Okay. The rest of these duergar detonate, blasted away out of play. Just, their bodies go thrown against the walls and the various pillars in the room. There's two pillars over there, they're kind of holding the ceiling up. The rest of them just go thrown about the room. The queen takes a bit of the damage, but seems to shrug off most of it.
Orion: I'm going to spend two sorcerer points. And I'm going to reach out my hand, and I'm going to form an ice knife and-- where is the queen, actually?
Matt: Right there.
Orion: Oh, very good. I'm going to throw the ice knife right there.
Matt: Okay. Right there? All right.
Orion: And I cast it at level two.
Matt: All right. So you get to throw at a target, though, right? Or are you just throwing on the ground to do the radial? Okay, so you take-- you form the ice knife, you throw it, it streaks across, slams into the stone floor and explodes, sending shards of ice out. Go ahead and roll damage.
Orion: Which is 3d6, because it's at level two now.
Matt: Correct. Saving throw, which it succeeds.
Orion: Much better. 14 points of damage.
Matt: Okay. Both succeed for half damage. So seven points of damage to each. All right, got it, cool. That ends your turn, Tiberius. Clarota, now--
Orion: How do you like them apples?!
Matt: Clarota steps forward-- Seeing the other mind flayer there, steps past and decides to go into a contest of wills against it.
Marisha: Contest of wills, staring contest, staring contest!
Matt: All right, this is intense. All right. Clarota is going to step forward and begin to intensely stare at-- you can see the air itself seems to shimmer and push, like a strange bubble shifting between the two of them at this connection point. Mind flayer, now one-eyed and seeping liquid from the side of its face, glares back at him. Fails his saving throw.
Marisha: That's right, he does.
Matt: This mind flayer suddenly diverts its attention away from Clarota and towards the queen. (cheering)
Sam: The old Dominate.
Ashley: Tight, tight, tight. (laughter)
Matt: That ends Clarota's turn. All right. The duergar would go if they weren't all blasted to hell. That brings us to Keyleth.
Marisha: All right. I'm going to go right for the king. You're coming for a ride, Tiberius. I'm gonna make a straight line. I have a 40-foot movement, pretty straight movement.
Orion: All right! Let's get 'em!
Laura: Oh no, Tiberius fell off.
Matt: There you go.
Marisha: Okay, I'm in melee, yeah?
Matt: Yes, you are.
Marisha: All right, I'm gonna do my full three multi-attack.
Orion: I'm maniacally laughing.
Matt: You are going to have a disadvantage on the tail attack, because you have Tiberius on your back and you're trying to make sure you don't hit him with your tail.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: So, first two claw strikes.
Marisha: Okay, first one, probably not gonna hit. 12?
Matt: No, that does not hit.
Marisha: Second one. 16?
Matt: Does not hit. Clink, clink! Off the armor. Tail strike.
Marisha: Tail strike. Two. Ten. Nothing.
Matt: Yeah, unfortunately just his thick suit of armor-- you're just hitting at him with the giant scorpion claws, but nothing seems to be getting through.
Marisha: God, you're so heavy, Tiberius, god!
Matt: You hear this clacking scorpion angrily (scorpion sounds).
Marisha: My balance is wonky.
Matt: Pike, you're up!
Ashley: All right, time for some healing. So pull me in there. I'm gonna do a-- I'm gonna do a Mass Cure Wounds. At level five gives, which I thinks gives-- thinks? Which methinks gives me 4d8? Plus my spell ability modifier. Okay, so--
Marisha: Get your heal on.
Liam: (Yoda voice) 4d8 you would give.
Ashley: Oh, so, 20. 20 points of healing for whoever would like it.
Matt: For everyone who's in the radius. Everyone but Grog, essentially, gets healed for 20 points. Grog's too far away from you, unfortunately.
Sam: Thank you, my love.
Matt: All right, Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: All right, I'm going to just get-- just step into the doorway to take a look. I'm just stepping one step. And now I'm just going to shoot-- can I-- I'm just gonna try and-- The minute I recognize what a basilisk is, since I've faced them before, I'm going to do my best not to look and take a shot.
Matt: Okay, so go ahead and fire with a disadvantage against the basilisk on the far end of the room.
Sam: Don't you shoot me.
Marisha: Oh, that was a pretty one.
Taliesin: I get 16 at my disadvantage.
Matt: 16 at disadvantage? That does hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: Nice! I'll be taking another shot, too.
Matt: Also, Tiberius, make another constitution saving throw.
Taliesin: Six points of damage.
Matt: Six points of damage to the basilisk, got it.
Taliesin: I'm going to take another shot, though. 16 again.
Orion: Ten.
Taliesin: 16 hits. This time I do 12 points of damage.
Marisha: 12 points?
Taliesin: 12 points. And then I'm gonna duck back around the corner again.
Matt: Okay. Cool. As you duck around the corner, you've gotten these strikes in, and as you're trying to-- as you finish your blows on the duergar king, Murghol, in front of you, you hear this clanking sound as Tiberius's now fully stone form falls off of the scorpion onto the ground, beside you.
Sam: Oh no! He's stoned!
Ashley: You turned to stone?
Laura: 'Cause of the basilisk.
Liam: We've dealt with this before.
Laura: Basilisk blood, we can fix it.
Sam: I think you pee on the body and it cures them.
Ashley: Can I-- I can't, I have to go--
Sam: Let's try it and find out.
Matt: The basilisk now takes its turn.
Liam: (stone Tiberius voice) Please, no!
Matt: Steps forward onto the edge. It's going to go ahead and-- it's gonna be for Lady Kima. It's going to attempt to make its stare at her. Lady Kima--
Ashley: Close your eyes!
Laura: She's smart, she's closing her eyes.
Matt: Lady Kima, who's currently in this blood frenzy against the king, unfortunately is not paying attention. Off to the side, the basilisk gets a glance out, which she looks at from the corner of her eye, she sees the movement over and has a hard time pushing through the stiffness as the gaze begins to take a clenching effect on her body.
Laura: Oh no.
Computer: All set, let's go.
Generated voice: All set, let's go.
Matt: Yes, thank you. Let's do that. Oh, Waze. Why's my phone on? All right, so, that brings us to the-- Oof, okay.
Liam: (computer voice) I'm sorry, I can't help you with that, Vex'ahlia.
Matt: This mind flayer, who's currently Dominated, steps forward and is going to attempt to make a tentacle grab against the queen. Queen Ulara manages to dodge out of the way, seeing this coming, and just backhands it, while taking a step back. Unfortunately does not cling with the tentacle. That ends its action. Yeah, unfortunately that didn't hit. All right, next, at the top, that brings us to Vax.
Liam: I'm hasted. I'm gonna try to go stealth again from where I am. So I'm stealth, 17-- 30. Okay. I'm going to scuttle along the floor and leap on the back of the basilisk and try to stab it in the eye while looking at the ceiling.
Matt: Well, at the start of your turn, it's within 30 feet of you and you can see it. Are you going to--
Liam: Not look at it, no, no.
Matt: Okay, so you're taking disadvantage on this attack. So you move behind, you're hidden.
Liam: 15 for my first attack.
Matt: Your first attack, that will not hit, unfortunately.
Liam: And second time, 19 for the second attack.
Matt: That does hit, yes.
Liam: Okay. Feel for the eyes, stab it with keen dagger-- Four. 11.
Matt: Okay. As you rush over, you take your first strike at the basilisk, you see it reel back and slap around its tail. You barely just get out of the way, and as you see its head turning around to attempt to glare at you, you instinctively take your offhand dagger and place it directly into the eye socket of the basilisk. It sinks past your fingers and you feel that warm rush of blood and gore against your hand. As you pull back, it just slumps to the ground. (cheering)
Ashley: We'll get you some of that-- we'll get you some of that blood. Blood! Basilisk blood!
Liam: I only moved ten feet. So who's stone right now? Tiberius and-- wasn't-- aren't two people?
Matt: Lady Kima is mid-effect and Tiberius is solid stone.
Liam: I've got Haste on-- If I've got Haste on, can I get to Kima? 'Cause I've got haste boots.
Matt: I would say, yeah, you could spend the rest of your movement doing that, yeah.
Liam: Okay, and I use my thumb to slide some of its blood off the blade and drip it onto her eyes.
Matt: Okay. All right. That ends your turn. That brings us to Grog. Grog turns and is going to go ahead and go raging, frenzied, against the queen. And a critical hit. (cheering)
Marisha: He crit?
Orion: Yeah.
Matt: The first hit, she's gonna go ahead and use her reaction to do Shield, it's going to up her defense. First attack misses, so two attacks miss now and the last attack is a critical hit, which is nice. So that's a--
Marisha: No crits for you! Crit happens, whether you're here or not.
Matt: All right, so that's 31 points of damage. Oof, that's a hefty chunk. All right, that ends Grog's turn. That brings us to Scanlan!
Sam: I'm next to the king, right? I'm near the king? Over there.
Matt: Yep. You're right next to him.
Sam: Okay. I just make eye contact with him and I mentally tell him that he really has the urge to try to do a headstand. Lay down his weapon and he really just wants to see if he can do it. (laughter)
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Suggestion.
Matt: Okay. (laughs) What's your DC?
Sam: 19.
Matt: All right. This is through the hand cone?
Sam: Through the hand cone, through the hand cone.
Matt: Okay. That will be a 20, unfortunately. Makes his saving throw. He glances back towards you with a look of confusion for a second. Looks at his feet and like begins to reach forward and then steels his mind and looks up at you angrily. All right.
Sam: Can I also, as my bonus action-- Who's around me? Who needs inspiration? Who needs inspiring? Who's-- yeah, oh, shit. I'll give Pike some inspiration, 'cause she's my awesome sweetheart.
Ashley: What do I get?
Laura: You get 1d8.
Ashley: Hey, thanks, man.
Matt: Next up is King Murghol, who's furious now. Both of his beasts have been slain and most of his men have been completely torn asunder by multitudes of arrows and fireball spells. He, now growing in physical form, on top of already the musculature he acquired from that potion, is going to make his three attacks against whatever is nearby. That's actually going to be-- actually, that's gonna be two strikes against you, Scanlan, since you just now tried to make him stand on his head, and one against Kima. (laughter)
Matt: That is a 15--
Sam: Hit.
Matt: -- a 24--
Sam: (higher voice) Hit.
Matt: -- and against Kima is a 20, that also hits. So all three hit.
Liam: Nobody puts baby in the corner. (laughter)
Matt: Oof, all right. So the first strike hits you for 21 points of slashing damage.
Sam: Still alive.
Matt: The next one hits you for 23 points of slashing damage.
Sam: No longer alive (laughs).
Ashley: You're no longer alive?
Laura: Are you unconscious?!
Matt: Scanlan falls unconscious on the ground from the two strikes of the king. The third strike back towards Kima, who's currently seizing from the effect of the spell. She's restrained, so he has advantage.
Liam: But she's got the basilisk blood in her eyes.
Matt: There's a process to undoing a creature into stone. To your knowledge, it does not seem to be having an effect. However, Lady Kima takes 22 points of damage. All righty. That brings us to-- Vex, you're up.
Laura: Oh, that's me. Every time!
Liam: I'm Vex.
Laura: No, you're not. Okay, I'm gonna hail, I'm gonna-- hail of arr-- no, yeah, Hail of Thorns? At level three.
Matt: Okay, at who?
Laura: At the queen and the illithid. So, I should've transferred my bonus action over to-- but I didn't, that's okay. That gives me-- I should've done this before, I'm an asshole, I'm sorry.
Liam: But what about in the game?
Laura: That gives me 2d10.
Matt: Additional damage to the arrow.
Laura: Yes.
Matt: So it explodes around, right? All right, so, fire the arrow. So, as your bonus action, you go and you grab one of the arrows out from the back, and as you pull it back you can see a bunch of these little thorns begin to grow and sprout from the actual shaft of the arrow. You release it and as it arcs across--
Laura: Yes! Natural 20! (cheering)
Matt: Against the queen. All right, go ahead and roll the damage for the arrow and the damage for the spell. And all that doubles.
Laura: Oh, awesome.
Marisha: (sings) All that doubles is gold.
Taliesin: (sings) Only shooting arrows.
Orion: (sings) In a butthole.
Laura: Yeah, all of it doubles.
Matt: The bonus at the end doesn't double, just the dice.
Laura: Oh, so, 36--
Matt: 36 points of damage. Yeah, plus the seven. And then it does-- it explodes? In a radius. And it does the dice damage, the 2d10, to--
Laura: To everything within five feet.
Matt: All right, so the mind flayer and Grog.
Laura: Oh, right, yeah, I should've hit the mind flayer with that arrow. No, it would've still hit Grog. Okay.
Liam: Grog is a tank.
Laura: They have to make a dexterity saving throw.
Matt: All righty. Grog does not make it and the mind flayer does not make it.
Laura: Yes!
Matt: All right, cool. All right, second arrow you can fire now if you want to.
Laura: Second arrow. I'm gonna fire from my flaming bow. I've got one shot on that left. At her again.
Matt: All right.
Laura: And that's a 28.
Matt: That hits.
Laura: And that's nine plus a ten, where's my ten? There they are. That's plus two. 11.
Matt: All right. You see flames begin to burn up along the side of her robe and she's looking really flustered and frustrated at this point. All right, that brings us to Kima's turn. No. She's made of hardy stuff. Kima currently is fighting this, is going to go ahead and release an entire-- all of her attacks against the king Murghol as he's right in front of her. She has disadvantage on that, unfortunately, because she is restrained. She's gonna make two attacks against him using Divine Smite, expending a 3rd-level spell. So that's 3d8 extra damage to each strike. So the first one hits. Both hit. All right. She's going to do it twice. That's gonna be 6d8 additional damage.
Marisha: Ooh! That's hot.
Matt: Oof. Okay. So, as Kima rears back, her first strike comes down and hits overhead, into King Murghol's armor, and as it does, it hits. The blade only goes about a few inches in, but then all of a sudden the blade heats up white-hot and actually buries itself an additional six inches into his shoulder. He screams out in pain, reaches up and grabs the blade and as he does, his hand actually burns in the process. She pulls the blade out, around and swings it down again, sinking another eight inches into the side of his torso. This time with a giant arc of white divine light into the side. He looks like he's starting to bleed out from the two of the wounds really heavily. The king is looking a little rough. That ends Kima's turn. Kima's going to try and make a saving throw. Kima pulls the blade out, and turns to stone herself.
Laura: Oh shit. Shit, shit, shit. He's still at like really high health, too. The king.
Sam: What, he is?
Matt: The king is looking a little rough.
Sam: You never know. He might just start doing a headstand. (laughter)
Matt: The queen's turn.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: The queen looks over at Grog in front of her, kinda frustratedly, uses a bulk of sorcery points, puts her hand up towards him as he's pulling his axe back angrily. He fails his save. And he puts his axe back down and looks towards the rest of the group.
Marisha: Oh no! Not again!
Matt: Eye color glazed over.
Sam: He's so easily influenced.
Laura: No, he's under her control.
Matt: So that was her sorcery points, her quick action. She then says, "We're not gonna die this day alone and I won't die. My love, I'm sorry, but there's much more work to be done." And she raises her hand up and you see this buildup of green arcane energy at her hand. She turns it towards the rest of the group, faces it up towards the ceiling and releases this pulse of arcane, green, ill-looking energy that blasts into the stone ceiling. As it does, the stone itself disintegrates in a large chunk, and a glowing mass of seeping, hot, molten magma begins to pour into the room.
Marisha: Oh shit!
Orion: Where's it coming from?
Matt: It's now coming from right here.
Laura: Oh my god.
Liam: (sings) TPK. TPK.
Matt: So now, magma is pouring onto the throne room from above. The giant fall that is on top of the fortress is now peering into the room.
Sam: (high-pitched) Someone grab me and leave.
Matt: That brings us to Tiberius, who is stone. Clarota currently looks around and--
Orion: Hold on. Am I conscious in stone form?
Matt: No. You are a slate. You are a blue screen. You are Grog after the intellect devourer.
Ashley: Oh god, this is bad.
Matt: Okay. (laughs)
Sam: Pike, it's all on you, dude.
Marisha: Do you have water?
Ashley: I can create it.
Matt: Clarota steps back and grabs Lady Kima and begins dragging her back through the doorway.
Laura: Oh god, we've got to get out. That's a retreat.
Matt: Pulling her down towards the stairway. That brings us to Keyleth.
Sam: Keyleth. Keyleth. Get us out of here.
Marisha: Okay, okay, okay. I come out of the form. Yes, thank you.
Matt: It's a free action.
Orion: Isn't there a dead basilisk right in front of us right now?
Matt: There is a body of a dead basilisk on the ground, yes.
Marisha: I'm going to take Wind Wall. I'm gonna cast Wind Wall and try and wrap it around the lava column and try and contain it within the Wind Wall, cooling it down. Essentially making a tornado-like vortex around the lava.
Matt: Okay. For the purposes of this, I want you to go ahead and make a basic religion check.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Wait no, not religion. For you it'd be nature. Just for the purposes of my thought, I think a nature check would be an interesting way to see how this plays out.
Marisha: 18.
Matt: 18? Okay. So, as you bring this gust of cold wind, swirling around, the column of magma begins to cool and darken as Trinket is like backing up against the wall and the magma is starting to singe the edge of Trinket's nails. It cools to a dark, black, kind of rockish color. And the magma fall ceases, but you can see parts of it breaking and beginning to break past that shell exterior. So you've slowed it.
Marisha: This isn't gonna hold for long! Somebody rub some blood on Tiberius, quick, and let's get the hell out of here! I'm just holding this.
Matt: Holding it there? Okay. That brings us to Pike.
Ashley: There's so much to do. I don't know if I should heal you, if I should rub blood on you or if I should go try to remove the curse from Grog.
Laura: See if you can get the curse out of Grog. Because if we've got to retreat, then--
Ashley: Can Remove Curse remove the thing off of him?
Matt: From your knowledge, no, it's an arcane effect, not a curse.
Ashley: That's an arcane effect. Okay, so, Grog might be on his own for a little bit. Okay. So can I heal Scanlan and then also rub some basilisk blood on Tiberius?
Matt: From your previous experience, it's not the blood directly. The blood itself has to be distilled into a specific alchemical form to reverse the effect.
Orion: We just drank the blood last time.
Matt: No, it wasn't drinking. After the battle, you guys took the blood, prepared it, and then used it as part of the recovery.
Marisha: Will someone collect some blood?
Matt: Okay, so you heal Scanlan. How much does he heal?
Orion: The king's almost dead.
Marisha: Do we want to kill the king? Do we need somebody alive to help us?
Ashley: Oh, 19, 19!
Matt: So you're healed 19. You're on the ground, prone, but you're conscious now.
Sam: Hi!
Matt: You look up at Pike and smile and you look over and see this large column of magma that's now cracking through stone and pouring into the throne room again.
Ashley: Is there anything else we can do? Is there anything else I can do at this moment?
Matt: No, this has been a heal, this has been-- no, okay, you can move, that's about it.
Ashley: I can move? Can I take anyone with me while I move?
Matt: I will say you can drag him. You'll be at half speed.
Ashley: Can I try to drag Tiberius away from the magma?
Matt: You can try. Make a strength check.
Sam: You're two feet tall. He's a dragon.
Matt: Let's say athletics, do athletics.
Ashley: Athletics? 19.
Matt: Okay. So, you grab onto Tiberius, you rush over after healing him, grab and start dragging him towards the entrance. At half-speed you manage to get him three squares, that's as far as you got. As you're pulling back, the king, as a reaction, gets one strike on you with his sword. That's gonna be a 19.
Ashley: Get outta here. (laughter)
Matt: Your AC is 20?
Ashley: It's 20.
Matt: So the blade hits you--
Ashley: I just flip him off. (laughter)
Matt: The blade comes down towards you, but with a flash of divine energy in your shoulder armor, it just gets deflected off the side and you glare at him out of the side of your face. And continue to drag Tiberius out of the room.
Liam: Now go home and get your shine box. (laughter)
Matt: All right. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: All right. I'm going to step into the room, to give some cover. Right about, probably just slightly on the other end of this.
Matt: Where, over here?
Taliesin: No, like, next to Keyleth, like near Keyleth.
Matt: Oh, you're gonna have to go around here, then. This is a really harrowing place.
Taliesin: Okay, the first thing I'm going to do, is I'm going to-- I've got my ice shot loaded. I'm going to take a shot at the break in the ceiling and I'm gonna try and ice it over.
Matt: Okay, all right. So as you pull over, you go ahead and aim up with your ice shot ready. Go ahead and fire.
Taliesin: That's 20.
Matt: 20 definitively hits. It's not hard to do. Go ahead and roll damage and that will signify how long and how much it will stop. So just the ice damage. Not the actual bullet, it won't do anything. So just--
Taliesin: Oh. So just the ice damage
Matt: Just the ice damage.
Taliesin: Two.
Matt: Two. Okay. So as you blast up, you can see, as the magma's beginning to pour down again, you blast it and it immediately-- a spot cools into a rock and begins to slip again. You've maybe given yourself a couple more seconds. That may be what you need, you don't know. But that's all you got on that one.
Taliesin: Okay, my next shot, I'm just gonna turn to the king and just shoot.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Taliesin: I'm also gonna spend a point for additional damage. And I'm also taking Sharpshooter for additional damage.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: That's 16.
Matt: 16 versus armor class will not hit, unfortunately.
Taliesin: Oh! Wait, okay, no, I just, I don't get the-- oh god, it's not Pathfinder, gah!
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Okay, that's fine. I'm gonna spend my bonus action to take another shot.
Matt: Okay, so you're using your Action Surge?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. So Action Surge. You now have two more attacks. Go for it.
Taliesin: 23, eff you.
Matt: That hits. (laughter)
Taliesin: That's nine points of damage.
Matt: Nine points of damage, got it.
Taliesin: Taking another shot.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: This shot's fire, fire bonus damage. And I'm also gonna spend another grit point to maybe do a little more damage. 28 to hit.
Matt: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage. With the extra grit point you do two dice, right?
Taliesin: Yeah. I get a bonus die, I just have to find one. Oh, that'll do. That's 17 points of damage plus one point of fire damage.
Matt: Nice. Okay, so, the next-- the first shot fires, just ricochets off his armor and streaks across the room. You get his attention, though, and he looks back at you with this kind of wild look in his eyes, the muscles tensing. You can see the armor actually bending and twisting against his physical form underneath. However, the next shot blasts off side of his jaw, there's actually a giant gap now in his flesh as he looks back at you and you can see his teeth. And as he grits down towards you, now definitely intent on getting vengeance on that, the second shot (impact sound) takes off a chunk of his head. You can see the skull exposed on where you've now taken a piece of flesh off the top of his scalp. He's looking pretty rough.
Taliesin: Let's move it, people. And I'm gonna take like a step back towards the door. Just with what's remaining of my movement.
Matt: Okay. You can get back to there. All right. That brings us to--
Taliesin: Oh, I killed him, didn't I? No, he's not dead, damn it.
Matt: He's not dead yet. Not dead yet.
Taliesin: I know, that would've been so cool.
Matt: All right. The mind flayer, who is no longer dominated as Clarota took his attention off of that for the time being, looks around at everyone, sees the circumstance, the magma flowing down, and just grabs his chest and you can see his form blink out and vanish.
Orion: (groans) He peaced out.
Matt: That brings us to the top. Vax. At this round, by the way, is broken and has begun to spread, the magma has now filled this much of the room. And it's quickening.
Liam: My boots of haste are on, so I run-- I just dart right around Grog, around that column, up to the queen, while pulling out my keen dagger, I speak my mother's name, kiss the blade and shove it in, right into her collarbone.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll for the attack.
Liam: So that's a two, but I'm gonna use Luck. I get ad-- 20.
Matt: 20 does hit.
Liam: Because of it, and because Grog's there, this--
Matt: Grog is not an ally, currently. You do not get Sneak Attack.
Liam: Don't get Sneak Attack, all right. Three, ten, then. That's the first attack. And the second one also hits, that's a 29.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Is ten.
Matt: Ten, nice. So the first blade plunges into her clavicle, she maneuvers out of the way to the point where it misses any vital points, but still sinks in. She looks at you angrily and you can see her dull white, ashy, duergar eyes flash with an intense arcane rage. As you pull the blade out, her eyes dart around with some sort of a plan, a thought process going through her head, as the other blade sinks into the side of her torso she spits out blood that actually spatters across your face. She pushes the blade out and you see her preparing herself for something. That ends your turn. Grog currently moves forward towards you.
Liam: (Grog voice) Wrong direction!
Matt: That is a 25 versus armor class.
Liam: Yeah, but Uncanny Dodge!
Matt: How many times can you-- you've already used that. It's once per encounter. Once per encounter you can use that. Next one is a 21 versus armor class?
Liam: Once a round.
Matt: Once a round you can do it? Okay, well never mind. So take half on that first attack. All right, so. First strike comes at you with a-- oof, that'll be 19 points of damage. Reduced to nine.
Liam: Yeah, okay.
Matt: Second strike hits you for a total of 15 points of damage. So 24 total.
Marisha: Could be worse.
Matt: And that's Grog's go. That brings us to Scanlan.
Liam: That really hurts, Grog.
Sam: With my knowledge of the arcane arts, do I have any knowledge that using my Dispel Magic spell would work on Grog? Or do I just have to try it?
Matt: It's a possibility. You know the spell that's been cast on him-- you use it. There is a chance, but it has to be a contested roll.
Liam: You could roll a 20.
Marisha: You could roll a 20.
Sam: Does it take my move to just stand up?
Matt: Yes, it does, unfortunately. So it's your call.
Sam: But I don't have to be standing to cast a spell--
Matt: No, but I would say it's going to be difficult, it's going to give--
Sam: All right, I'll stand up.
Matt: All right. You get back up. What are you doing?
Sam: And I will-- Jesus, is it better for me to get out of there or get the king?
Laura: Yeah, get the king. You may be able to kill him. He's on his last legs, probably.
Matt: He's looking pretty rough.
Sam: Yeah, but Keyleth is right behind him.
Liam: Do it. Stab him.
Laura: You can attack him with your sword.
Sam: I am a tiny, tiny boy. I can only do--
Laura: Do it anyway. He's at his last legs. It would be epic, Scanlan.
Matt: What do you got? Go ahead, quick. Magma's pouring through.
Sam: Okay, I swing my Singing Dawnblade at him. (laughs) I have a dawn blade. It's just so lame though! It's so weak!
Matt: Okay, so. Go ahead and roll for an attack, d20.
Sam: A natural 20. (cheering)
Marisha: We said he could roll a 20! We called it! Who called it? We called it.
Matt: So, roll the dice.
Sam: So that's eight.
Matt: You rolled an eight. Times two, that's 16, plus whatever the bonus damage is for the sword.
Sam: Plus seven. Plus the dawn blade gets another bonus attack at disadvantage.
Matt: It does. So, you strike with a critical hit, doing-- let's see, that's eight, 16, plus seven, 23 points of damage, go ahead and roll for a second attack.
Sam: I've never hit anyone with a sword before! Five.
Ashley: Can I give him a War God's Blessing and give him a plus ten?
Matt: You can.
Ashley: All right, plus ten, so fifteen.
Matt: So what's your total? You rolled a five, plus--
Sam: Five plus-- ten-- I don't know, what am I adding? I've never used a sword before!
Matt: Add your proficiency modifier, which is four, plus your strength modifier, so that's five to that, which is ten, makes it 20, which hits! Roll damage on the attack. (cheering)
Marisha: Kill him, kill him!
Sam: Six!
Matt: Six points of damage. All right, six on that plus your strength, which is one. Seven. Plus the dawn blade, which is-- that's eight. So that's eight damage on top of the 23. How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Sam: I-- as I draw back the blade, I say, oh! You should've stood on your head! And I lop it off.
Matt: So. As you say that, you-- the blade vibrates to the sound of your voice, like the echoing of a song of Scanlan behind yours in almost a chorus out of nowhere. The blade streaks through the air, coming down, slitting across the back of his Achilles' tendon. He instinctually falls to one knee, which is kind of the height level for you. As you do, you bring the blade around with a flourish and take Murghol's head off his shoulders. It spins, tumbles to the ground, and rolls across the floor into the magma. Blackened beard curling back as the rest of his face is melted away by the lava, which is now pouring pretty heavily into this room.
Sam: (sings) Scanlan make you feel good!
Matt: All right. So that's your action. And your movement. And your bonus action. No, you did your bonus action to do the extra attack.
Sam: Oh! Great, great. I don't know how to use swords!
Matt: All right, so. That's the end of your turn. Wow! You used a sword! And got a kill! On a boss!
Sam: Yay!
Ashley: Good job, Scanlan!
Matt: All right, King Murghol's turn would be now, but he's on the ground. Vex?
Laura: I call Trinket back. Get him away from that lava. I run past, 'cause I can't-- can I see? Do I have an angle or is it being blocked by molten tornado?
Matt: You-- it's completely blocked right now.
Laura: Can I run across behind it?
Matt: Through here?
Laura: Yeah. Is that magmous right now?
Matt: Yeah, it is. It's still pouring! She slowed it down, but it's still breaking through and pouring out slower. It would be even bigger if they hadn't slowed it.
Laura: Okay, then well, maybe I won't run in that direction. I run in the other direction and down-- yeah. So I can see.
Matt: Go for it. Roll for an attack.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: First attack.
Laura: First attack is (sings) 20. No. 19.
Matt: Hits.
Laura: Yes! Okay. 14.
Matt: 14 points of damage.
Laura: Second attack is-- Second attack is (sings) 21!
Matt: Hits. Roll damage on that.
Laura: What's that? 12?
Matt: 12 to hit?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Or 12 damage?
Laura: 12 damage.
Matt: All right, 12 damage.
Laura: Oh, um. Hunter's Mark. Damn it. Bonus action!
Matt: Yep. All right, so both arrows (impact sounds). One clips her in the leg, and the other embeds itself in her abdomen. You see she grabs for it. She's looking really rough. Next is Kima. Kima's stone. It's now the queen's turn. She looks over at you who's stabbed her, the arrows in her abdomen, and she looks up at Grog and says, (sighs) "We've got business elsewhere." And she reaches out and touches Grog. Both of them blink out, Dimension Door.
Sam: We've lost Grog again!
Matt: A very familiar purplish color as you've seen you cast it, they Dimension Door out of the entire vicinity.
Sam: Son of a--
Marisha: This is the second time we've lost Grog.
Matt: At which point, the stone rocks crack on the column and the magma now goes into full pour.
Laura: We've got to get out!
Matt: You guys have to get out of that tunnel. What do you do now, what's the process?
Ashley: We run!
Sam: Wait, we gotta get our stone friends out.
Matt: So, this is going into a skill challenge now.
Laura: Yeah, we all run out that--
Sam: No, we don't all run out, they're stone, we have to drag them out, yeah.
Liam: Who all's stone, it's Tiberius and Kima? Okay.
Marisha: Can we-- where's the magic carpet? Throw their asses on the magic carpet!
Laura: Grog has the magic carpet. Grog had everything.
Sam: Wait, Feather Fall, do you have Feather Fall?
Ashley: Before, before we leave, can I take some of the basilisk's blood and put it in a vial?
Matt: Okay, this will be the first skill challenge. Go ahead and make a dexterity check.
Ashley: Dexterity check?
Marisha: Oh, can we get the magic carpet now?
Matt: No, the magic carpet is in the bag of holding. That thing is huge. You carry that with you, you would be at disadvantage for everything you've been doing.
Orion: Oh, I see.
Ashley: 18!
Matt: 18, okay, so. I mean, you go over to it, and you manage to gather up into your wine skin a little bit of basilisk's blood, best you can. The magma pulls close to you and you manage to just take six points of fire damage from just the general heat of the magma now pouring into the room. It's spilling out and now just continuing to fill the rest of this chamber.
Liam: I shout to Percy, come, Tiberius, now!
Taliesin: We pick him up.
Matt: Both of you guys make an athletics check.
Sam: Oh, it's not a strength check?
Matt: For this, this is just an athletics to pull them all off.
Liam: 19.
Taliesin: 17.
Matt: Okay. You guys grab and pull Tiberius out of the room. It takes the two of you to heft him over. You manage to pull him out of the way, that works out well. Down the stairway, all right. We don't need the video for this, we're just going to do this visually. So, you guys manage to bring Tiberius down the stairway. What are you doing, Scanlan?
Sam: I'm unfurling my Bull's Strength scroll and reading it so I get a plus five to strength? Is that a thing?
Matt: All right, so that's Enhance Ability. So you go ahead and give yourself Enhance Ability. Your strength is now-- you have advantage on all of your strength checks.
Sam: Okay, and I start to help, who was pushing Kima? I'm gonna help push Kima out.
Laura: Oh wait, no! Wait, didn't Clarota take Kima?
Matt: No, Clarota pulled Kima out of the room.
Laura: Oh, so we're all fucking fine, let's just get out.
Matt: So you guys are fine.
Marisha: I go ahead and on our way out I cast Create Water, and I kinda just use my air ability and make a mist to try and like mist the lava that's coming towards us.
Matt: Okay. You do, but the magma's so intense and this has filled so much of the room now that you get a localized area. The rest of it just kinda flows around and continues to fill the space. All right, so. All of you guys make a dexterity check to try to get down quickly. Go for it.
Ashley: Can I make another one?
Matt: Yes, everyone makes one.
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Liam: Natural 20.
Orion: (hoarsely) I rolled a 19!
Marisha: 20.
Sam: (sings) Seven!
Ashley: Four!
Laura: Do I get to roll twice 'cause of terrain?
Matt: Because of-- yes you do.
Sam: Do I get my Enhance Ability?
Matt: Not for this one.
Orion: I would like to note that I am frozen like this.
Matt: Okay, Tiberius is.
Laura: 29.
Matt: Okay, gotcha. So, Pike and Scanlan, both of you guys are, unfortunately 'cause you're smaller and your legs are moving, you guys rush down the stairway and curl around. As the rest of you make your way to the door, which is currently closed, you are all kinda gathered at the exterior of that hidden doorway. It's currently dark and held shut on where you guys entered. However, you two, the magma's now reached the stairway. It's beginning to pour down off the top, and it manages to catch the two of you. You guys each take five points of heat damage from the magma's proximity.
Liam: To the two ladies?
Matt: No, Pike and Scanlan. You guys make it to the bottom floor. The doorway is currently closed for the secret exit of the fortress.
Liam: Vax drops Tiberius' stone ass to the ground and starts feeling to get the mechanism of the door open.
Sam: Are we at the foot of the stairs yet, me and Pike?
Matt: You guys just make it to the foot of the stairs. You guys are now--
Marisha: It's a big stone door?
Matt: Yeah, it's the one you guys, the one you guys-- it opens up, outward.
Marisha: I just cast Stone Shape and make a hole.
Matt: Okay, as you're feeling around for the mechanism, Keyleth steps forward and basically the stone turns into almost a clay, and she just pulls it apart.
Marisha: Sorry, Vax. I didn't mean to, like, overstep there.
Matt: A giant glob of magma pours down and splashes down onto the ground, hitting everyone in the vicinity. Everyone down here takes 12 points of heat damage.
Liam: Ah, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot!
Laura: Hot hot hot hot hot.
Liam: All right, I'm picking up Tiberius' stone butt and continuing--
Matt: Okay, you guys push through the open hole that Keyleth pushed in, sweat dripping down your faces as the heat proximity to you is nigh-intolerable. You make your way out of the gate and now you have that giant magma flow.
Laura: Oh, right! Is the thing not-- wasn't there--
Matt: No no-- as you guys go and step out, the doorway that opened up, previously? Is what parted the magma flow. You pulled it open, so now it's just a wall of magma in front of you.
Laura: She also had created a wall barrier.
Marisha: I did create a wall over top.
Matt: You did. It's not there anymore.
Marisha: It was permanent!
Matt: It was permanent, but a perpetual flow of magma on it for a period of a few hours will eventually eat through a stone wall.
Laura: Can you cast it again?
Marisha: I can. Yeah. Do it again. Bam.
Matt: Okay. It's probably the last of that. You create a stone wall that juts out, once again blocking off the magma flow. You guys all step out of the room just as the main force of magma begins to fill the room behind you. Everyone make one more dexterity check to get out in time, as it's a small space and you're pushing out.
Sam: Natural 20.
Orion: 16.
Matt: You made nothing.
Marisha: "You made nothing." Seven.
Taliesin: Ten.
Ashley: Two.
Laura: Oh no. 29.
Liam: 12.
Matt: Okay. Everyone under 15  you, you, Percy, I believe, and Keyleth. The magma now, as you're helping getting your friends out, you're pushing out, you push Vex out-- Vex darts out, Scanlan manages to get out. As you guys are pulling Tiberius through, the hefty force of magma comes funneling down into the room and splashes across the floor.
Taliesin: Oh, that's a lot of dice.
Matt: That is 18 points of heat damage.
Liam: Vax is unconscious.
Marisha: 18 points?
Matt: As you're pushing through, Vax, you fall unconscious as the magma is currently lapping at the back of your leg. The rest of you begin pushing out as you begin to realize that your half-elf friend is currently melting in a pool of magma.
Ashley: Can I grab him? Can I grab him out?
Matt: Go ahead and make a strength check. This is strength at this point, this is pure adrenaline pushing through.
Ashley: 12!
Matt: 12. You manage to start pulling him up through the hole that Keyleth made.
Taliesin: I'm going to assist, I'm pulling out-- I'm doing another ice shot to try and cool off the magma around him.
Laura: I send Trinket up, to like, pull him.
Matt: Before you get to that point, as you're readying for it, 'cause it's a small space-- as you're pulling it, giant bear claws come over and latch onto the back of Vax's armor. The grizzly bear begins to tense, pulling back. Makes a strength check. That'll do it. Both of you manage to pull you out. You take an additional bit of heat damage. You are now at two failed saving throws. Two failed death saving throws.
Liam: I am a centimeter away from real death.
Matt: As he pulls it out, you can see most of his foot is melted. And his right leg.
Sam: Aw, that's his best leg.
Taliesin: I pull a level two healing potion, just get it in his mouth.
Matt: Okay, you pull it out. At this point, the magma's beginning to fill up the room, by the way.
Marisha: Okay, wait wait wait, can I take my stone wall and like, close it off? We're all out, right?
Matt: You're outside of it. How long does Stone Shape last?
Marisha: Stone Shape?
Matt: What you used on the wall.
Marisha: I'm just-- I'm just taking it away.
Matt: Closing the wall?
Marisha: I'm closing it. I can do it again, I still have two more spell slots.
Matt: Okay, how many spells do you have at that level?
Marisha: Three.
Matt: Three. So you spent--
Marisha: One, so far.
Matt: One going out, coming-- no, wait, it's the same-- you haven't had a chance to do a full night's rest.
Marisha: I know. I was an animal all week-- all last game. I didn't use any last game.
Matt: That's true, so you used the stone form, used Stone Wall.
Marisha: I used one Stone Wall last week and I have two level five spells now.
Matt: That's true, that's true, you do, that's good. All right, I just wanted to make sure. Okay, so as you do that, you send up another Stone Wall. It blocks off the magma just as it begins to pour over and spill out into this vicinity. It'll last a short time, but it'll last enough for what you guys need. You guys drag--
Ashley: Can I heal him?
Matt: You can attempt to, yeah, go for it.
Laura: Anticipation.
Marisha: I know. C'mon, Pike!
Ashley: 24.
Matt: All right. Heals you.
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: Comes to consciousness. You guys are about ten feet away from the base of the stronghold. Your foot heals up, but it's still burned.
Laura: Ew, get that away from me.
Matt: For the time being, until you can take some serious physical rest, your movement is reduced by five. And your stealth rolls are currently at disadvantage.
Ashley: Can that ever be healed?
Matt: Over time with some rest it can be, but right now-- like, you're healed up, but that foot is scarred. It probably spent a good six seconds completely submerged in molten lava.
Liam: Are you telling me I'll never compete in the roller derby again? (laughter)
Matt: Quite possibly. You all are just on the outskirts of the stronghold. You can see now elements of the windows of the top floor are beginning to glow with internal light, as the entire stronghold is currently filling up entirely with molten rock.
Sam: Oh, I left my keys in there! (laughter)
Matt: You're all resting for a moment, off to the side. Grog is missing. And you all take a moment to realize that somehow you all managed to survive this, mostly.
Marisha: Sort of.
Matt: However, you didn't find the vault, didn't find Kima's stuff, and a number of escaped individuals from this are out and at large. We'll end today's game on that note.
Liam: Percy, I need Bad News to be my other foot now.
Marisha: Yeah, you should have-- you need, like, a sweet pimp swagger now.
Matt: So that went a little long, guys. Thank you for your-- for hanging out, but that was an intense session. Some climactic moments there.
Liam: Are you sure you guys don't want to send in a bulette, right now?
Marisha: Yeah, or maybe, like, you know, a black ooze. You wanna do that?
Sam: Wow, guys.
Zac: That was fucking intense.
Matt: That was crazy!
Zac: Guys. Riveting. And exhausting. Are you guys tired?
All: Yes.
Zac: No dancing tonight, guys, get over it.
Ashley: Sorry it went late.
Laura: That went so long, I'm sorry guys.
Zac: No, they are happy that you went late. They want you to stay forever.
Matt: That was nuts.
Zac: So I wanted to make a couple announcements of people that helped out tonight. Not just donators, oh so-- I'm gonna read off a couple of people who helped out first and then we're gonna start off reading off people who donated to the charity. If you want us to read off who you are and your message to the Critical Role crew, you still have time to donate, 'cause I'll start at the bottom and work my way up. So if the mods could post the link to, you know, the command for Critical Role and you guys'll see there's a link there to donate. Donate to 826LA. Every little bit helps these guys a lot and it would be really helpful to the stream and the show. These guys have been working really hard and Matt puts in a ton of time and to show your support, go donate to the charity and we'll get to your messages. Okay, so first off, I'm gonna thank the_Duganator8--
Marisha: Yes! Was it the Duganator's birthday?
Zac: Yes!
All: Happy birthday, Duganator!
Marisha: (sings) Happy happy birthday, from all of us to you. We wish it was our birthdays, so... we're partying. Yay, woohoo!
Zac: Way to not use the copywritten one.
Marisha: (laughs) Yeah, way to not use the copywritten one, yeah.
Zac: Arislan and Alduin and JakeBoudreaux and Negihama and Duganator8 were all the ones that pitched in to buy dinner for you guys.
Marisha: Thank you guys, we love it, cupcakes! Happy birthday.
Zac: And then as a quick update for what's happening tomorrow, we have three performances tomorrow night. So tomorrow is Gather Your Party and it's kinda like our bring your friends, have a good time with board games and music and everything. So Indiecade's coming by tomorrow night to show off some new board games. And then we have two bands playing, Sonja Midtune and Bearwolf. And then we have the musical improv group that was here during the charity drive is coming back to do a performance, Robot Teammates and The Accidental Party, and that's tomorrow night, it'll be a lot of fun. So I'm just gonna pull up these donations and messages, if you wanted to see and start going through 'em. And we'll probably have more as we get to the top. So starting at Fifthdreamtoday said, "I love Critical role, kudos for giving to a great cause."
Matt: Oh thank you, Fifthdreamertoday.
Zac: Ravendreamer  "Cheers and godspeed to the bold members of Critical Role for supporting reading in children."
Matt: Thank you, Ravendreamer.
Zac: Voractin24  "A combined donation for Critical Role and for myself and my role group." Oh. "from AngelMitsu."
Matt: AngelMitsu and Voractin24, thank you.
Marisha: Thank you, guys.
Zac: It's hard to read some of these messages.
Matt: That's all good.
Zac: MageInATower-- Starbuck86x. Cargoth912. Eridinsk-- Eridinsk. I'll pull that one up. "Thanks for all that you've done with the show, it's amazing, definitely my favorite show, happy to support the charity for you guys."
Matt: Aww. Thank you, Eridinsk, that's awesome.
Zac: Alduin. "A small thank you for what you're doing, it's awesome. Keep it up." RGcanok #CriticalRole.
Matt: RGcanok, thank you, buddy.
Zac: TonyLoneFight, donate for 826LA.
Matt: Thank you, TonyLoneFight!
Zac: CrazyNexy
Matt: CrazyNexy.
Marisha: CrazyNexy.
Marisha: You're crazy.
Zac: FurryHunter85, "hope it helps a little."
Marisha: It does. It helps a lot.
Zac: Almostheaven, "This is becoming a weekly thing, much love, the #CriticalRole crew." Becoming a weekly thing for us too.
Marisha: Almostheaven? More like totally heaven. Always heaven.
Zac: Zanderinvictus  "Worthy cause and worthy people to make my Thursday so enjoyable #lessthan3"
Matt: Aww thank you, Zanderinvictus.
Zac: Nixdeathsticks  "I don't encourage violence." (laughter)
Zac: Warmcustard  "I was totally gripped tonight."
Marisha: Thanks Warmcustard! (laughter)
Zac: Samwheeler  "Incredible stream tonight, thanks so much."
Matt: Thank you, Samwheeler. You guys are awesome!
Zac: Sure enough, there's, oh my gosh.
Marisha: I know I'm getting more now, muzzbuzz.
Zac: Poltergeist123.
Matt: Thank you Poltergeist.
Marisha: That's a good movie!
Zac: Ironwolf  "Great stuff, guys."
Matt: Ironwolf! Strong name!
Zac: Dumoco  "Thank you for a wonderful time, thank you all for a wonderful time."
Matt: Thank you for watching, Dumoco!
Zac: Tone17  "Another donation to a good cause to push karma in the party's favor."
Marisha: We like the karma!
Taliesin: More 20s!
Zac: Frisbee  "Thank you for letting us share your adventures. It means a lot to us too."
Marisha: Thanks Frisbee!
Zac: 13Modem, "Thanks Critical Role team." thisisbonertown: "The least I can do for entertaining all of us."
Matt: Yeah bonertown! (laughter)
Marisha: You are the least we can do to entertain ourselves.
Zac: LightningGemini  "I love Critical Role, you guys are amazing."
Matt: Thank you LightningGemini.
Zac: Wheelyfactoid  "Love you guys, can't wait to finish my knife for Liam and bear for Laura."
Marisha: Wait, what?!
Zac: Sounds like they're making a knife for Liam and bear for Laura.
Taliesin: How do you make a-- nope.
Liam: I encourage violence. (laughter)
Laura: I encourage massages.
Zac: Sickwizard  "Every kid should know how to read, I love Critical Role, Matt, feel free to TPK."
Laura: No!
Matt: I don't try to!
Zac: You know-- oops, sorry, from Zenjurken  "You know it's good when you're worried for the characters on screen, and good luck." Scaviensuretoriot. Popeblasterfighter: "I love you guys so much and you guys make me laugh every time." Danmanmountain: "Thanks Critical Rollers. Great show tonight, happy to give back #23fu."
Matt: Ha! I saw that in the chatroom
Orion: 23fu meet Bonertown.
Zac: Headance. Tiberiusthelad. FicklePickletickler: "#Zacsbonerjams" (laughter)
Marisha: FicklePicketickler, that's great.
Matt: Thanks FicklePicketickler.
Orion: Also lives in bonertown.
Zac: And one more, this will be the last one, SilentKagamusha: "Critical Role is why I am now addicted to and starting my first game of D&D." (cheering)
Zac: "Matthew Mercer is why I will DM so I should help out."
Matt: Good on you, buddy! Storytelling.
Zac: If anyone donates after and we go offline, I'll make sure these guys get the messages and they're aware that you donated. Thank you all for tuning in. You guys are killer. Killer show.
Marisha: Thank you guys so much! You are all amazing, I love you so much.
Zac: We're going to go offline and then come back up with the rebroadcast of Thursday and you'll see this playing throughout the night and tomorrow morning, and will be up on the website tomorrow, so thank you. Thank you guys.
Matt: See you next week.
Sam: Bye!

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone and welcome to this evening's episode of Critical Role. Before we kick things off we're going to do the videos in just a moment to intro as we're waiting for a member to arrive. But before we get started tonight we have a couple special giveaways getting all the subscriber counts we can get. First off if we hit 3500 subscribers tonight we're going to be giving away a player's handbook signed by the cast of Critical Role, a dicebox, and one of these fantastically reconstructed horns of Orcus torn recently from forehead of the mad beholder K'varn. We actually have two of these available tonight as part of the giveaways. The first one will be at 3500 the next one at 3550 with the same package: The player's handbook signed by everybody the dice box and one of these horn props which were made for us by the incredible KommissarProps. This is Kai Norman. Kai, want to come in and say hello to everyone?
Kai: Yeah!
Matt: Show off your good work here.
Kai: Thank you.
Matt: Show off your good work here.
Kai: Hey guys!
Kai: I guess I should show you a little bit about how they're built. They're resin. They're cast resin so they've got a little bit of rigid foam in the back so they've got this nice kind of bone marrow look and they're all hand painted by me and hopefully you guys will --
Marisha: He's super awesome.
Matt: It's a good start.
Marisha: You should totally go follow him at KommissarProps. It's kind of hard so I printed this out for you guys. Follow him on Instagram and on Facebook. That's where you see the most about this guy. And go check it out. It's good for the giveaway.
Matt: He's a talented guy. He's providing these for us for the giveaway tonight totally on his own and he's also going to be helping us with future possible prop stuff for the game as it progresses.
Marisha: You definitely want to go follow him. I actually tweeted a picture from your Instagram account, so for those of you who are following me, there's a direct link to his Instagram account. Or just search this on Facebook or Instagram.
Matt: Indeed.
Marisha: Do it. Do it now.
Matt: So we have those at 3500 and 3550. If we get to 3600 tonight, you'll get the t-shirt signed, a dice box, a starter kit and we'll stay after and play some more Just Dance. (cheers)
Matt: Yeah! Great!
Matt: Also want to give a big shoutout to -- we might have a bunch of new folks from imgur today -- someone put up a really cool post about us on imgur and a lot of people saw it, so those who came through that, hello, welcome, you're gonna sit in and watch a bunch of us silly folk play Dungeons & Dragons, so it should be fun hopefully. Welcome. In the meantime we'll go ahead and roll the videos, we'll get some history on some of the characters and we'll be back here in a few minutes.
Marisha: We'll be back. Go follow. And then we'll pull winners.
Travis: Right, Listen up! If you have ale, then you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw! A goliath of towering height and size, this barbarian has an appetite for the two great loves in his life: combat, women, and ale! (record scratch) Wait. Easily the brains of the group, Grog is often consulted for his vast knowledge of shapes, colors, and shiny things! ...also ale. In his early years, armed with his two handed great axe, Grog often enjoyed proving his might amongst (brawling sounds) Grog often enjoyed proving his might amongst the ranks of his family's wandering herd. (brawling sounds) the ranks of his family's wandering herd. But after coming upon an unsuspecting elderly gnome in the woods, he objected to the killing such an innocent life. A creature of impulse, Grog felt only pity for this... well, this terrified little thing. And his disobedience cost him dearly. (weapon crack) Beaten bloody, and banished by the herd leader, Beaten bloody, and banished by the herd leader, his uncle Kevdak, Grog was abandoned and left to die. Exiled from his herd, it was then that the relative of the very gnome he fought to save, saved him. It was the kindness of a gnome cleric named Pike, that healed Grog, bringing him back from death's edge. And they have remained close friends ever since. Most nights, Grog can be found challenging entire taverns to wrestling matches! Ha! ...or accompanying Scanlan to the nearest house, where you pay for... lady favors. Also ale!
Marisha: A first Impression of Keyleth would leave you with little information on the half-elven druid. You might even think that her social awkwardness due to her sheltered upbringing is kind of sweet. (chuckle) Of course, it would be unwise to underestimate her based on first impressions. (thunder crack) based on first impressions. Under that unintimidating petite frame is a vicious beast waiting to be unleashed, whose natural powers have made even the fiercest of champions pee their pants, literally! (soft chuckle) Born to the Air Tribe of the Ashari people, Keyleth was raised with a deep love of nature and the elemental magics. It is her people’s inherent duty to protect the delicate areas in Tal'Dorei where the four elemental planes begin to bleed with this realm. Since she was a little girl, she had quite a knack for air manipulation and beast shaping abilities. Well, if you consider kittens and flying squirrels to be little beasts. Which, I do. (clears throat) Anyways, it wasn't long before the headmaster of the tribe, her father, Kohren, realized her true prodigious abilities and she was inveterated to succeed him as the next headmaster. Just like that, her jovial childhood was stripped and replaced with endless spell memorization, teachings from ancient traditions, and exceedingly high expectations. Every druid leader to be must embark on a journey to seek out the sister tribes in order to introduce and establish respect amongst the fellow headmasters. They call this the Aramente, or Noble Odyssey. When her father felt she was ready, he set her on the path to truly discovering herself. Not knowing when, or if she will ever return. As she hiked down the mountain towards Stillben, she meditated on the task ahead. Part of the Aramente is proving yourself a strong warrior, a valiant protector, and a wise and compassionate leader. With this knowledge, one thought plays in repeat in her mind: Is she even worthy?
Taliesin: Percy was the third child of seven children, born to a noble family who lived far to the north in the ancient castle of Whitestone. With so many siblings to share the burdens of lordship, Percy turned his attention to the sciences, engineering, and naturalism. One day, a mysterious couple, named Lord and Lady Briarwood, came to court. During a feast held in their honour, the Briarwoods violently took control of the castle, killing or imprisoning everyone who would stand in their way. Percy awoke chained in the dungeon, only to be freed by his younger sister. Together they fled, chased by the Briarwoods’ men. As they ran, Percy’s sister took several arrows to the chest and fell. Percy kept running, eventually jumping into a freezing river and floating unconscious to freedom. He did not remember waking up on a fishing boat. He barely remembered the next two years, as he slowly made his way as far south as possible. Then one night, Percy had a dream. A roaring cloud of smoke offered him vengeance against those who destroyed his family. When he awoke, Percy began to design his first gun. (gun cocks and fires)
Ashley: Pike grew up in the outskirts of town, near the Bramblewood. Her ancestors were a family of deep gnomes with quite an unfavorable reputation. Thievery, destruction, and trickery left them with the curse of the last name Trickfoot. Sarenrae, the goddess of healing and redemption, had other plans for Pike's great-great-grandfather, Wilhand, who left his family at a young age after a dream. A dream that changed the course of the Trickfoot family. Wilhand devoted his life to Sarenrae and pledged from then on that him and his family would live a life of service and devotion. As a child, Pike seemed to have an affinity to heal. Whether it was animals, people, or even flowers, she felt she had a purpose in making things whole that had once been broken. She studied and learned the ways to heal though divine magic. She lived a peaceful life, quiet and simple, until one day, Wilhand was captured and almost killed by a group of goliath barbarians. One of the goliaths took a stand against the murder of the innocent gnome and he himself was beaten, bloodied, and left for dead, abandoned by his herd. Wilhand went to Pike for help. She prayed and healed this barbarian as best she could, bringing him back to life. When he awoke, she discovered his name was Grog Strongjaw. After that, they were best of friends, a rather unlikely pair. Little did she know that in a few years' time Grog would soon return the favor and bring her back from the clutches of death. (creature growl and snapping) After being killed in battle, Pike felt angry. She wanted to be stronger so that it would never happen again. She spent four months at sea training with the men and women aboard a ship called the Broken Howl. Gripping her holy symbol in one hand, and her morningstar in the other, this time, Pike is ready.
Sam: Oh, you haven’t heard of Scanlan Shorthalt? Well, gird your loins, ladies, because he has his eye on you. A talented musician, master of disguise, and dashingly handsome in his own mind, Scanlan sings songs almost as much as he sings his own praises. Born a poor gnome, Scanlan used his endless charm and soaring tenor voice to croon for coin and support his single mother. One day he was discovered by a half-orc promoter, and joined Dr. Dranzel’s Spectacular Traveling Troupe where he learned the ways of the world and honed his skills as a bard extraordinaire. A loner much of his life, Scanlan has never quite come to terms with the violent death of his mother at the hands of a goblin invasion. While his years on the road provided many, shall we say, educational experiences with the opposite sex, deep down Scanlan yearns for the one thing he’s never known: the true love of a fellow Gnome. Still, Scanlan considers himself a lover first, performer second, and fighter distant third. On the battlefield, he’ll support his allies, but rarely draws blood unless it’s to protect fellow gnome, Pike. Count on Scanlan for a hearty laugh, a rollicking song, and a twinkle in his eye that melts hearts and makes the females swoon.
Orion: Greetings and salutations. I am Tiberius Stormwind. I hail from a town called Ty'rex, located in the heart of Draconia, born from a politically respected family. At the age of 15, I succeeded in passing the Sorcerer’s Rite, showing prodigy-like control of my magic. The judges and the Draconian high council were amazed at how powerful my spells were for how long I had been training. At 20 years old, I was the youngest appointed member of the magic guild in Draconian history. For the next few years, I almost went mad from the malaise of being a guild member, as it’s rather boring. However, one day I happened upon a chamber, unused for quite some time. In the room were stacks of books and maps of the surrounding cities and areas around the known world. For months, I would frequent the chamber and learned of artifacts from legend. After a long period of research, I made a list of artifacts that caught my eye. I brought these findings to the high council and was told that all of the information in the chamber I had stumbled upon was either believed to be fiction, or unsolvable mysteries, and hence were lost forever. I found those answers to be unacceptable. A year later I devised a ruse and managed to convince the city council to lend support in me leaving Draconia on a mission of peace and diplomacy for the surrounding kingdoms. Going from town to town and making friends and allies, in and for the name of Draconia. Being a red dragonborn, I had quite the task on my hands in that respect, but it was exactly what I needed so I could explore the world and find these artifacts, as I felt the truth was out there. Some may describe me as buffoonish, but I say poppycock to all that. I am much sharper than most give me credit for. I just don’t pay attention to things sometimes. I’ve also been known to be rather cunning, loyal, happy-go-lucky, and well, dangerous. I can’t help but show my true scales every now and then. But overall, I think I’m quite friendly for a Dragonborn.
Liam: Never entirely welcome in the company of elves or men, Vax'ildan learned at a young age to skip past formality, preferring instead to invite himself in your door. Along with twin sister Vex'ahlia, Vax was born by a chance encounter between elven royalty and human peasantry. Raised by their mother in their early years, the twins were eventually sent off to their father in the Elven capital of Singorn. But their cool reception among the elves there never warmed, and their time in the capital didn’t last. The siblings stole away one autumn night and set out on the open road. After a few years of wandering, they eventually decided to return to their mother, and journeyed back to the lands of their youth. But instead of finding their childhood home, they returned to a pile of rubble. Their mother was gone, their home burned to ash. Pressing the townspeople for answers, they learned of the day the dragon came. (roaring) With their ties all severed, Vax'ildan and his sister set out to find their fortune together in Tal'Dorei. An outsider since birth, Vax quickly learned to solve life’s challenges in his own particular way, often by sidestepping them entirely. And when his knack for circumventing adversity isn’t enough, (sword unsheathing and slashing) the way of blades the elves schooled him in more than makes up the difference.
Laura: Like so many half-elves, Vex'ahlia has spent most of her life suffering the cool reception of a people who don’t fully accept her. Born of a human mother and an elven father who only later in life took an interest in their existence, Vex'ahlia and her twin brother Vax'ildan quickly realized the only people they could truly rely on in this world were each other. It was at the age of 10 when the two were taken from their mother, and brought to live in Singorn, the isolated Elven city for which their father was an ambassador. He quietly took them in, but always kept an icy distance, and after too many years of disdainful looks, the pair decided to leave his indifference behind and set out on their own. Vax took to the cities, stealing small trinkets and learning the ways of the thief, while Vex kept to the woods. She preferred the isolation. Always the keen observer, she learned to hunt and to track, to spy and to shoot. And through a series of fateful events, earned herself a companion in the form of a bear -- her own stolen Trinket -- to fight alongside her and protect her fiercely. Also he is adorable and gives expert massages.
Matt: Welcome back guys! We have some interesting aspects of playing tonight Orion Acaba will be here shortly, he's currently stuck in traffic. Unfortunately we will not have a Sam Riegel tonight, due to his schedule.
Ashley: Scanlan?!
Marisha: No Scanlan.
Matt: Laura Bailey and Travis Willingham, our loving Grog and Vex, are out of town in Florida but are Skyping in via modern technology.
Laura: Technology? What's it all about?
Marisha: We can actually see you guys pretty good.
Matt: We're going to try and make this work.
Marisha: It's pretty cool.
Zac: We're getting audio set up right now.
Matt: So we're getting this figured out. They'll stay in play as long as they can. They are three hours ahead of us. To be fair, we have friends across the coast that get up at 4am to watch this
Laura: That's true.
Matt: You should hang around long as you can. (strange monkey noises)
Matt: You should hang around long as you can.
Matt: We can't hear you right now. (strange monkey noises) (more monkey noises)
Matt: It's even better.
Matt: So as they're figuring this out guys. We'll let you know, we've already hit our first milestone for subs.
Matt: So we have a winner. The winner of our first package, which includes the player's handbook signed by everybody, the dice, and one horn of Orcus torn from the forehead of K'varn... Is the esteemed RhymesWithOrange! Congratulations RhymesWithOrange, you are the first winner of the horn. (everyone claps)
Matt: Well done. So we'll get that sent out --
Taliesin: Are you taking a selfie with the iPad?
Marisha: (laughs)
Taliesin: Sorry.
Matt: (sighs)
Taliesin: Sorry.
Matt: It's alright. So --
Marisha: Thank you again to our friend Kai Norman at KommissarProps for making the horn, go follow him. It's awesome. KommisarProps on Instagram and Facebook
Matt: Our next giveaway is at 3550. And we will give away the second and only other horn, as well as the rest of that package. And at 3600 we're going to do t-shirt signed, dice box, starter kit and we're going to be dancing for you afterwards. Let's see if we can get that by tonight. Also, want to give you guys a heads up, we've wanted to get some confirmation to you guys about the episode releases after the live show. Because we have a lot of people who watch the show who can't watch it live.
Matt: The episodes are available immediately afterward on Twitch if you're a subscriber. So the morning after the show, if you're a subscriber, you get to watch the episodes immediately afterward. Plus you're helping us keep this channel going. All the subscription money goes toward maintaining the channel, all the people that work here throughout the week, all the other amazing hosts and people that actually run the programs here. So you help make this channel function.
Marisha: Only subscribers get access to the archives.
Matt: -- archives immediately. However --
Laura: (coughs) However --
Matt: -- volume.
Matt: To finish this thought, for those who aren't subscribers, episodes do go up now every Monday, that's going to be the confirmed time period of release.
Matt: So you can look forward to episodes up on the Geek & Sundry website every Monday. That's the scenario.
Matt: So, given that case, whenever Orion gets here he'll hop in, in the meantime, let's go ahead and start this game up.
Matt: So.
Ashley: All right here we go.
Matt: So, for those of us who --
Matt: Just a little heads up here, the party has just returned after a long arduous trek through The Underdark, beneath the Dwarven city of Kraghammer.
Matt: They were sent to retrieve a paladin named Lady Kima of Vord, who was on a vision quest to stop some dark evil that her deity Bahamut told her was existing beneath this mountain range, and needed to be squelched.
Matt: The party managed to salvage her from insidious torture, and through her aid as well as a Mind Flayer who had been outcast from the society and the colony nearby.
Matt: They managed to convince to help them as well, fought their way through the tunnels, past the Duergar army, eventually to the underground Mindflayer colony of Yogg Voril where they found that this entity called K'varn. This was then eventually revealed to be a mad beholder, K'varn, who had been pseudo possessed and given additional power by the Horn of Orcus, a great and evil artifact long forgotten, which had been found by this entity. So they managed to make their way into the temple, kill K'varn, tear the horn from it's forehead, however found themselves swarmed immediately by an entire colony of mind flayers heading toward the top of this temple. They managed to battle and battle, nearly losing a few party members, and through some ingenuity, escape through the top, glide over the city of Yogg Voril through this underground chasm to a distant embankment along the beachside of this underground lake. And teleport their way back to their base city of Emon. So they've come back to Emon, they've come to their keep, Greyskull Keep, and they've had an evening of rest. Upon waking the next morning, they've managed to get some breakfast, they've freed Lady Kima from her stone entrapment as she was turned to stone during the battle with the beholder, and had a conversation based around what should or could be done about this Horn of Orcus evil artifact. So here we will pick up again from that point. So the rest of you guys have eaten your meal, Kima hungrily doing so. All of you guys both sore and exhausted having barely seen sunlight for a little over a week and being probably the first or second good meal you've had since leaving Kraghammer proper. You all finish your food, Grog hungrily so, double the size of his normal intake of delicious meats and starches. Tiberius has not seemed to have woken up or found his way down from his room as of yet. However, you guys did recently receive a rolled up piece of parchment. A notification from the council of Tal’Dorei, saying that you have been requested to the council chambers at some point this afternoon, around the mid-day sun, to discuss your return and the situation and conditions about it. And that was all it said.
Liam: I can't remember is Lady Kima with us at this point? Is she unstoned?
Matt: She's unstoned, you've already had the conversation with her last week talking about the horn, basically interrogating her.
Liam: And we said that we had it somewhere safe, but weren't we playing coy with that?
Matt: You were playing coy with it but you --
Ashley: I had gone downstairs to go get Grog.
Matt: Yes, Grog returned with it and you guys had the conversation basically saying ‘Oh, it's safe, don't worry. It's fine’. Grog at which currently has it in the bag of holding.
Marisha: But we haven't told her that it's in the bag of holding right?
Matt: No you just said you have it somewhere safe.
Marisha: We just said we have it somewhere safe.
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Turn them up a little bit.
Taliesin: I am highly entertained.
Liam: I think we're getting feedback.
Matt: Oh, I see.
Marisha: Oh yeah, that's us.
Laura: Right! That would be us.
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Sorry about that.
Ashley: We'll figure this out guys.
Marisha: That wasn't too bad.
Matt: This is the new attempt at technology with our out-of-towners.
Taliesin: It's amazing.
Marisha: It's working pretty well.
Taliesin: It is working pretty well.
Marisha: I'm kind of impressed.
Taliesin: Have we actually opened up the parchment and read it yet?
Matt: Yes, you have received it and you've inspected it.
Ashley: It's Tiberius.
Orion: Hey everybody.
Marisha: Yes.
Laura: Hey boo.
Taliesin: I don't know what's going to happen.
Matt: He's going to crawl under the table. There you have it.
Liam: Good morning sleepyhead.
Orion: Hi guys.
Matt: As a couple hours have passed --
Marisha: Good morning Tiberius.
Orion: Hi. Right.
Orion: Hello.
Orion: Am I here?
Liam: Yes you've just come down the stairs.
Matt: You've just now come down after many hours of breakfast have passed. It's now pushing around 11:00 in the afternoon comparatively, and Tiberius comes storming into the main dining hall of your keep.
Orion: Morning everyone.
Marisha: What is that?
Orion: This is my own bag of holding.
Orion: And I walk over to Grog and I open their bag of holding and take out my wheel of mending and I put it in here.
Laura: You got your own bag of holding?!
Orion: That's what I needed the extra gold for before I left.
Marisha: Where did you go to get that?
Orion: We're face-timing?
Marisha: Where did you go to get that?
Orion: Hey! Hi Guys!
Taliesin: Science.
Liam: We are the coolest.
Orion: I was like that's, "That's Laura's voice, where the hell is that coming from?"
Ashley: At least we think we're cool.
Marisha: At least we think we're cool.
Orion: Travis is there too! Sorry!
Orion: I mean.. Yes.
Liam: So Tiberius we're just waiting for you to awake. I think we should probably go and see the emperor, like you do. Talk about the little problem we have.
Marisha: Wait. Where did you go and get a bag of holding in the time of us sleeping and you waking up.
Orion: If you recall, I actually went to Draconia... when we all woke up to begin with.
Marisha: You didn't tell us that.
Orion: Why would I have to tell you?
Marisha: I didn't say you didn't have to, I'm just saying you acted like I should know and I'm saying I had no idea.
Orion: I could have sworn I cast that and said that last game.
Matt: No, you just stayed in your room and did it on your own.
Orion: Oh shit. (all laugh)
Marisha: Yeah. So right now you're crazy to me.
Orion: Right. Okay.
Taliesin: I'm also a little disturbed that it looks like that bag of holding is made of you.
Marisha: Yes it does look like it's made of drag -- that seems cruel.
Orion: Actually this is wyvern skin. We use it in the air force of the Draconian army. And when the --
Ashley: Air force?
Orion: Yes. Draconia has an army, 500 standing, 200 are airborne.
Marisha: But they have an air force?
Orion: Yes. Keyleth: Do they fly-- nevermind.
Taliesin: No, they just blow, they force air.
Marisha: (laughs)
Orion: We have trained and tamed wyverns which we have utilized and they are part of our culture.
Taliesin: I've never seen a skinned one.
Orion: Yes. And so I went to the local "shoppe" and purchased a bag of holding because I realized that I did not hold my own wheel of mending for a long time.
Taliesin: That was frustrating you, wasn't it?
Orion: It was extremely frustrating. Especially because it's my artifact.
Orion: Yes.
Marisha: Well that's good. It's probably good to have a second one of those.
Marisha: And it comes with water, how handy.
Orion: It holds a lot of things!
Marisha: How fantastic.
Taliesin: We should probably get off to see what the emperor wants.
Orion: Before we do that --
Orion: Where's Scanlan now?
Marisha: Not here.
Matt: Scanlan is currently in the room eating breakfast
Orion: We're all eating breakfast still right?
Matt: Yeah.
Orion: Hi everybody.
Liam: Not you, you've apparently been globe shopping.
Orion: Right. Scanlan? I was thinking about our last encounter.
Orion: I'm going to take off my ion stone that's kinda chilling.
Orion: This is a particular thing that you've seen me use several times. And I notice in the last couple of battles you've actually literally run out of spells to cast. I propose a friendly trade. The crown on your head allows you to do certain things which you have not utilized the last several rounds you've owned it. It seems you've actually complained about not having extra spells to cast.
Liam: Rounds of what?
Orion: --rounds of battle, Vax.
Liam: Oh.
Orion: I don't know. (all laugh)
Orion: So I assume that you could probably actually use this more. I have a tool that allows me to do it to begin with and it's come in rather handy as you've seen. What say you, Scanlan?
Matt: Scanlan looks to you and thinks for a second and goes
Sam: You know what. I'm going to think on that.
Marisha: (laughs)
Sam: Wait untill I'm more rested and solid and sound mind before I can make any sort of arrangements or trades here. It would be unfair, given our current state of -- (all laugh)
Liam: It's true Scanlan, you should probably wait until you're feeling a little more present.
Ashley: Wonderful plan Scanlan.
Sam: Agreed, agreed.
Sam: A couple hours at the local brothel and all should be fine.
Matt: He cracks his fingers, expectantly.
Liam: Welcome back, even though we didn't know you were gone. I've eaten. The rest of us have eaten --
Ashley: Were you gone all night?
Orion: No, just for about an hour.
Marisha: Oh.
Orion: It was a good trip. I needed it.
Ashley: Just saying hello to family and that?
Orion: No I just literally went to a shop I knew in Draconia and picked up the item. I wasn't sure if they had any in Emon and didn't really want to waste any time looking for one.
Ashley: Well...
Liam: Good on you, shall we go to meet the emperor?
Taliesin: I've eaten, let's politic.
Liam: I think so.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: This is so --
Matt: Can you guys hear us fine?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Just making sure.
Laura: Too scared to talk is all.
Marisha: Scared to talk?
Liam: Chime in, please.
Matt: Feel free to chime in whenever.
Liam: One of us, one of us.
Travis: Balls. Taint. Ale. Nipples.
Matt: That's our Grog.
Ashley: Hey, there's Grog.
Marisha: Grog!
Matt: As our wonderful giant, now filled with various forms of delicious food matter warm in his belly, gives a string of various curse words in enjoyment, and sits up from the table with a loud fart and you guys make your way out of Greyskull Keep.
Matt: Towards the outer wall of Emon, in towards the entrance to Abedar's Promenade, making your way towards the Cloudtop District where the palace itself resides. Is there any place --
Laura: Is Lady Kima with us?
Matt: Lady Kima is with you, yes.
Taliesin: Good.
Matt: Is there anything else you want to do or are you guys making a beeline for the palace?
Orion: I would like to take another 500 gold from the treasury before we do that. And I do.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Wait, what?
Liam: From the treasury.
Liam: You have to ask the treasurer.
Laura: How much do you want?
Orion: Five hundred to replenish the 500 that I initially took. I don’t know if I will have to spend it at all, and if I do, I will completely share my plan with all of you. But I would like to see how what we do plays out next.
Laura: Another 500?
Orion: Yes.
Orion: That's all I do. That's all I want to do.
Matt: Anything else?
Liam: Have we had contact with Allura? Since returning?
Matt: Nuh uh.
Liam: Not yet?
Liam: I feel good about her being at this meeting.
Ashley: Someone just got really excited when we mentioned the name Allura.
Orion: I cast prestidigitation on myself and make robes are all super clean and nice.
Matt: Got you.
Matt: As you guys walk into the center of the Cloudtop District, you can see that her ivory tower, which once collapsed around you, is now standing in it's previous location, seemingly untouched and back to it's original esteemed visual.
Taliesin: That is the question, do we stop in first or do we go straight to --
Liam: Was there a time requested on there?
Matt: It said around the noon day sun. It's probably about 30 minutes give or take.
Liam: Allura's really the only person I trust.
Taliesin: Perhaps we should not walk into the palace with this on us, so to speak.
Liam: We don't have anything on us.
Taliesin: No, we don't, but if we did we should probably deal with it.
Taliesin: What.
Liam: Yes.
Taliesin: No. Yes. (laughs)
Liam: Tibbsy. Let's go ring Allura's bell.
Travis: I'd like to ring her bell.
Taliesin: It's like having the internet right there.
Liam: So I just start walking off towards Allura's tower.
Orion: I'll follow Vax.
Matt: Okay. Everyone else go with them?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: So you guys trek your way towards the northern edge of the Cloudtop District. You round about the series of very nice, fine marbled houses, finely crafted stone. This is the affluent area of Emon proper. It's in the secondary city wall, which of course the upper echelon of merchants and those who have money are offered the secondary form of defense against the town being sieged at all.
Matt: You come around the corner on the fine kind of yellowish cobblestone road, turn, and you get to the point where you can see to the left of you is the giant courtyard that surrounds the outskirts of the palace proper. With the giant steps that lead up to the darkened purple marble that the entire structure is made out of. To your right, there's a few buildings and the white ivory tower that Allura lives in. You approach, the front door is closed. It still remains that giant iron knocker on the front that hangs loosely, like a giant wishbone that you slam into the front of the wooden doorway.
Matt: Give it a couple hits? (Vax nods)
Matt: You can hear it echo throughout the interior of the tall standing tower. A few moments pass, you hear the movement of chain. A creaking of metal and then a -- some sort of large shifting of a wood platform or plank. The door then creaks open and there standing, a little bleary eyed, slept-in a bit, but in the process of getting ready, you see before you Arcanist Allura. Her long blonde hair is half braided. She's in her darkened blue robes. You're used to seeing her in and see -- She opens the door, the sunlight hitting her eye. She protects her vision for a second before they focus on the rest of the group and she goes,
Matt: "My lord, you've all arrived! You've all arrived!"
Matt: And she swings the door opens and runs forward immediately to you, the first person that's there and she gives you a big hug.
Matt: She holds back and gives you a look over.
Matt: Her eyes are opened. You can see how honestly eager and happy to see that everyone's here safe.
Liam: I look over at Tiberius and just short of sheepishly shrug.
Orion: I'm used to it, it's fine.
Matt: She turns over to give Pike a big hug. She makes her way around the rest of the group.
Matt: "You're all... I'm so glad to see you're all back. I've heard there was some difficulties happening in Kraghammer at the time you arrived."
Matt: She turns around and takes your hands, Keyleth, into her own and gives you a nod and a small hug. Goes to Percy and gives you a hug. Goes to Tiberius and gives you a big warm hug.
Matt: She slowly pulls away. She acquiesces to your longer hug... And then... pushes away.
Orion: It is nice to see you again.
Matt: "The pleasure is mine."
Laura: (sings) Awkward. Everyone: (laughs)
Matt: "The pleasure is mine, Tiberius."
Matt: And as she turns around, she sees standing behind the rest of you, there's Kima. There in her now freshly cleaned golden armor that she polished over the evening so she doesn't smell of Duergar sweat and blood anymore.
Liam: We've brought you a present.
Matt: There's this moment where they both look at each other quietly. And then Allura steps forward and says,
Matt: "Kima. Welcome back."
Matt: And they both just run and give this big embracing bear hug. She lifts Kima up and there's a slow spin. You can see this very very strong bond of friendship before she eventually puts Kima down and takes a little bit, she holds her hands for a second. You can see a tear running down Allura's cheek.
Matt: "I was so worried about you."
Matt: And Kima sheepishly turns her eyes to the side and says,
Matt: "Sorry for the all the trouble."
Orion: Story of my life. (all laugh)
Orion: Seriously Matthew?! Come on!
Matt: What?! (all laugh)
Matt: They're good friends.
Liam: Friends! Friends!
Marisha: (laughs)
Orion: Friends.
Matt: Your assumptions, dragonborn. (all laugh)
Liam: Don't mug yourself.
Taliesin: That's great.
Liam: Come correct. Don't mug yourself.
Matt: (laughs)
Matt: They take a moment to just nod at each other. She reaches her hand out in front of Kima's head and rustles her hair for a second and says,
Matt: "You had many of us worried sick you can't keep running off like that."
Matt: And Kima says,
Matt: "I know, I know."
Matt: Then Allura turns to the rest of the group and says,
Matt: "Thank you all so, so very much. You've done the realm and myself a great service in bringing her back."
Matt: At which point, Kima says,
Matt: "Bring me back? They helped me complete my quest! You've made some strong allies, Allie."
Matt: And Allura starts heading back into her tower and says,
Marisha: Allie?
Matt: And Allura starts heading back into her tower and says,
Matt: "Well? Come. Enter. I have tea ready."
Laura: I like it.
Matt: "Well? Come. Enter. I have tea ready."
Matt: "Well? Come. Enter. I have tea ready. You all look like you could use it to be honest."
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: "Come. Please."
Taliesin: Well, all right.
Orion: I love tea.
Taliesin: We have a moment we can spend.
Liam: Long story.
Matt: So as you guys all walk into her tower, you remember it untouched from your previous entry here. It's a weird moment to step into a tower that you were once in as it crumbled and folded on itself, to see it as if nothing had ever happened.
Taliesin: Is there a new rug?
Matt: There is not.
Taliesin: Ah-hah!
Laura: Hmm..
Marisha: We're not giving it back.
Laura: We shouldn't tell her about the rug.
Marisha: Don't tell her about the rug.
Matt: You guys step into the center of the room and she's talking to herself for a moment, saying
Matt: "Things have been a bit crazy here, obviously. Now that the floodgates have opened as far as discussions with the council and people who have maintained a backlog for a while. It's been a bit busy. But, this is a wonderful moment to respite. I'm greatly enjoying the company to be honest. Come."
Matt: She guides you all to the center of the chamber. Once again, there's that large stone platform in the center that has a number of the inert runes carved into the stonework. As you all step onto it, she taps her heel against the bottom of it for a second. As she does, all the runes glow with a bright flash of blue and a familiar sensation as that circular platform begins to lift like an arcane elevator, up the center of the tower, going up one, two, three stories. And as you're going up you're seeing certain sections of wooden library shelves set up at odd angles along the top of the arcane tower itself. You can see there are small stairways that lead off into doorways that seem to almost exit into the sky.
Matt: You've gotten into the idea that a lot of these powerful mage-built towers, the inner workings don't really match the outer exterior look. And there are rooms that shouldn't exist at certain points as you lift up.
Liam: I'd like to make a perfunctory insight check just to see if there's anything hinky.
Orion: I'd like to google perfunctory real quick.
Matt: You can do that. Go for it.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: On Allura?
Liam: Yeah, everything's probably fine. That's an 18.
Matt: Best that you can gather, she looks like she's a bit groggy, having slept in recently. But she seems extremely excited you've all returned and seems eager to catch up as far as what has transpired since last you met her.
Matt: The platform continues before it reaches the topmost floor of the tower before the slowing of the stone platform eventually comes to a halt with a slight jostling. The runes fade and you're all on the top floor of the tower once again. This is her main chamber. You can see across the way there is her large cush canopy bed in the far corner. There are a number of desks. There's a small arcane laboratory on the far side. Looks like it's in a bit of disarray, as she's probably in the middle of a project.
Matt: You do hear, as soon as you arrive, it sounds like the whistle of a tea kettle in the distance. At which point, she says,
Matt: "Ah! Allow me."
Matt: And she begins to walk over. She lifts her hand and you see a small drift of arcane energy as her mage hand goes and lifts, takes the water off of it's burner, and begins to absent mindedly mage-hand various teacups out of a large cabinet above the little kitchenette area.
Ashley: That's awesome. (all laugh)
Matt: At which point, everyone's looking around, Kima, amongst the rest of you guys, says,
Matt: "It's been awhile since I've been here. Everything's as grandiose and unnecessarily dressed as it always is. I'm glad you got rid of that old rug though."
Laura: (laughs) (scattered coughing)
Liam: Sorry.
Liam: (coughs)
Ashley: Was there a rug?
Liam: I'm fine.
Taliesin: I don't remember that.
Marisha: Stay cool. Come on.
Travis: This rug?
Laura: Nope.
Taliesin: Nope.
Ashley: Nope.
Taliesin: Not here.
Matt: Allura, who is now in the process of pulling chairs over and setting up a small sitting arrangement, a semi-circle, and says,
Marisha: It’s so cute.
Matt: "The last time the tower collapsed and I was so rudely assaulted in my living quarters, it appears my rug went missing. It's all right. I've kept my eye out for a new one for some time."
Orion: That was unfortunate.
Liam: Magic, it's tricky.
Orion: I had no idea. I jumped out when that happened.
Taliesin: Speaking of tricky magic.
Matt: She gives a slow, knowing look about the group. And gives a nod like, 'I acquiesce to this, that's fine'.
Marisha: You should have some potted plants, Allura. Like some nice greenery.
Taliesin: You're going to try and feng shui the tower, is that what you--
Marisha: Well, why not.
Taliesin: I don't know.
Matt: "That's not a bad idea. Perhaps we'll discuss this."
Liam: This is silly.
Liam: Allura, it's a long story. Lot of deurgar, lot of mindflayer, lot of mindflayers, and an evil god?
Taliesin: A beholder.
Orion: Yes, moreover, a beholder.
Liam: Yes, but who was pulling the strings behind the beholder.
Marisha: He thought he was an evil god. A beholder with a god complex?
Matt: "Curious."
Matt: At which point, as you say that, she does this with her fingers, and all the chairs rush in underneath you guys. And you're put into a sitting position. As you all sit, she begins to slowly mage-hand over each one of you a freshly poured cup of tea.
Matt: A look of concern comes across her face.
Matt: "So you found your way beneath the city, I assume based on the denizens you've mentioned, into the underdark proper. A beholder you say? Mindflayers you say?"
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: "I first off must apologize, I was not aware I was putting you into such dangerous territory."
Orion: Ha! It was really dangerous! It was nothing, filled with just buttholes everywhere. Terrible.
Matt: "That sounds like a terrible city."
Orion: Mhm..
Marisha: (laughs)
Matt: "Well, first and foremost, I apologize for that. I am incredibly grateful you're all seemingly healthy and still here. And you've brought Kima back to us which is very important."
Matt: "Well, I guess this is in order."
Matt: And she sits up for a second and walks over. And you can see she looks back at the rest of you and brushes her hand for a second. A sphere of darkness appears in the corner of the room where you can not see an entire part of the room. And she sits there and hovers. Just a little pocket of darkness.
Marisha: Aw, man.
Ashley: What's that?
Matt: You hear some rustling.
Marisha: We've been in darkness so long.
Matt: You hear some rustling.
Matt: You hear some rustling.
Matt: The sphere of darkness finishes and you see she's holding a sack of coins, that you don't know where she picked them up from.
Marisha: Oh!
Matt: She steps back over to her chair, sits down, and says,
Matt: "Just a precaution, I like to keep my private things private. But, a deal is a deal and you've done as you've asked. So as we've discussed, 10,000 gold pieces, to the lot of you, and my greatest thanks."
Laura: I take that. "to the lot of you, and my greatest thanks." (all laugh)
Matt: She hands it out to Vex's eager palm. It's very heavy.
Laura: Good thing I'm strong then, huh?
Matt: With her 9 strength, it sags.
Laura: Sorry about the hand gesture there, stop it. (all laugh)
Matt: Internet.
Matt: She sits back down, says,
Matt: "You tell me what else if anything has transpired, and I'll let you know what you've missed."
Ashley: Well.
Orion: We have Orcus's horn. So that's a thing.
Matt: There's a slight pause before the actual sound of breaking glass hits your ears as the teacup that she's holding shatters across the stonework on the floor.
Matt: Allura, still sitting in her chair, hands in place and says
Matt: "I'm sorry, what did you say?"
Orion: Yes, that beholder butthole that we had to fight, that we had no idea we had to fight, had this Orcus horn on his head. So we took it off and we kept it safe. That's what you wanted I'm assuming, to destroy it.
Laura: But we haven't touched it though.
Orion: No.
Matt: "All right."
Matt: She looks over to Kima, who does this with her shoulders up. Kima gives her a nod and says,
Matt: "To be honest, I wasn't sure that was the end of my journey. But it seems that great evil I talked about before, we killed it and took its source of power. Now we're figuring out what to do with it."
Matt: She gives a sheepish grin and a slight shrug in her armor. Allura looks to the ground for a moment and says,
Matt: "I don't know much of this object you say, but if it was the source of the creature's power, and it carries with it the connotations of Orcus, then this is a very, very ill omen indeed."
Orion: Yes.
Matt: "This must be brought before the council immediately."
Orion: Wait.
Marisha: The council?
Orion: The council?
Matt: "The council of Tal'Dorei, the council you are part of."
Orion: That helps.
Ashley: Are you going there, right now, also?
Matt: "Yes, I was summoned to it."
Ashley: We were as well.
Orion: Here's the thing.
Orion: Sorry, Pike. The thing with this particular item is, the more people know about it, the more dangerous it actually becomes. The fact that we even share this information with Kima and with you is a very dangerous thing to begin with.
Matt: "I agree."
Orion: Are the council trustworthy?
Matt: "Those who currently reside on the council are trustworthy, I assure you this. I've done my work with them for many years, and those that have passed have been replaced with equally trustworthy individuals. And, rest assured, I have my checks and balances in place as well."
Liam: I think what we're worried about most is the corrupting nature of this thing. And while the council may have good intentions, I think more than a few of us are somewhat nervous. What effect it might have on them, on us.
Matt: "Can you assess what the mistrust would be to not bring this before the sovereign and the council?"
Orion: Namely, if the immediate want is for it to be immediately destroyed, because that's what needs to happen with anything from Orcus, as you very well know.
Matt: "I understand, and I don't think you'll find anyone who disagrees. But I also don't think you should sow mistrust with the council by keeping any of this information from them."
Marisha: It's not about trust.
Laura: Uriel has been corrupted once already.
Marisha: Exactly.
Matt: "This is true, and was it not by your hand that he was freed and his family kept safe? Understand, that this is a man that owes you him and his family's life. I think he would take in to you, his ear bent in your direction quite strongly."
Marisha: Correct, but couldn't you also safely say that he is therefore fairly easy corruptible? If he had been corrupted before, even not if subconsciously, I'm not saying intentionally, but he clearly...
Matt: "You would know best what was responsible for corrupting our sovereign, as you did fight and one was felled, by it's own strength."
Marisha: I'm saying Lady Allura, that there is essences, there seems to be magical properties to this horn that corrupt even some of the strongest willed individuals.
Matt: "Then we must be rid of it quickly. And I think we need to at least discuss this with the council, if not present it. Bring it to their attention. There are ways, arcane... not very approved ways, of nullifying targeted memories." "The rest of the arcana pentsafocal have banned the use of such magics but if we could have approval, understanding the safety concerns of this object from the council we could override the arcana pentsafocal and I could employ some of these magics to make sure that once this artifact is destroyed or taken somewhere to never be found again, we ourselves perhaps would not recall it ever existed. And that itself is the safest course of action."
Orion: I agree.
Liam: I think that we trust you. And you trust the council. That's enough for me.
Taliesin: That's enough for me as well.
Marisha: Pike? Where do you stand.
Orion: That's definitely enough for me.
Marisha: Pike? Where do you stand.
Orion: Just so you know Allura --
Orion: I might have a solution as well for actually destroying it, so I will follow your lead.
Taliesin: I think the best course of action is to trust people.
Liam: And we're incapable of destroying the thing on our own.
Orion: Oh, that's not true at all. I might have a solution which I just shared with Allura. I'm letting her take the lead on this, and when the situation presents itself I might have a solution to destroy it outright.
Laura: Why don't you share that with us now Tiberius, instead of keeping it secret?
Liam: Just give us a rough sketch, maybe? instead of keeping it secret?
Orion: Very well.
Orion: I'll pull out my bag of holding.
Orion: This.
Marisha: The mending wheel?
Orion: No, the bag.
Laura: An empty fist?
Liam: He pulled out the bag.
Marisha: Okay. Would you care to elaborate, Tiberius?
Orion: I'm sorry. This part of the thing I wanted to tell all of you at breakfast. The idea is, with some research I've come to find that if anything is in a bag of holding, and the bag of holding itself is destroyed, the items or whatever go into a somewhat void, that cannot be retrieved by any one particular thing. If we are to have our memories erased, as you say, then it would guarantee that when we place the thing in a bag of holding and destroy that bag, it will then be dissipated into that void.
Matt: At which point, Allura raises her hand and says,
Matt: "Tiberius. You, as a very trained sorcerer, have some knowledge in this regard. I've been crafting bags of holding since I was a child as a way of keeping my weekends busy. I have to notify you that should such a pocket of interdimensional arcane space is disrupted in this way, it doesn't send it into a void. It jettisons the contents into the Astral Sea. The Astral Sea which has many denizens that could come across this object. Githyanki themselves and their great ships."
Orion: I hate yankees.
Matt: "Gith --nevermind."
Ashley: So it could be bad.
Orion: There are things --
Matt: "There are many things that exist in the Astral Sea that could recover this item. I'm not saying there isn't merit to this, but I think it would be best we put it somewhere where at least we know for certain no one will find it, as opposed to just hoping it disappears somewhere."
Orion: But the memory thing is crucial.
Marisha: What about those who might be uncomfortable with toying around with my memories and tramping along around in my head, I don't really want --
Liam: Why don't you think about it for a while?
Travis: My head's pretty fragile as it is.
Liam: We're talking about erasing the path back to this thing, we're not talking about removing your adolescent years from your memory. Just this one thing.
Travis: All right.
Marisha: How many lessons have we learned in just the time. Wouldn't we have to erase all memories surrounding it? We wouldn't even remember our trip into the underdark?
Taliesin: I think we could perhaps just erase the memory of where we put it.
Orion: That is what I assume will happen.
Matt: "That is possible. Like I've said, these magics have not been tampered with in nearly 200 years."
Marisha: So we're gonna break the seal on some untampered-with magics and just experiment.
Matt: "I am part of a group that oversees civilization. I can't go into too much detail but they are responsible for keeping such ancient magics, long forgotten magics such as this. I would have to meet with and discuss and gain approval for its use. But for an item as dangerous as what you say, perhaps this is one of those special occasions."
Liam: She's working for the Illuminati and we're basically the A-team, so I think she might know a little better.
Taliesin: The A-team?
Marisha: What do you think, Pike?
Ashley: I feel like at this point we don't really have another option.
Ashley: And I do trust Allura.
Orion: I'm all tapped out.
Ashley: And I do trust Allura.
Ashley: So I feel like if we just go check it out. I don't really know what our other option is.
Ashley: That was a good one.
Liam: And if we don't like it we can step.
Taliesin: And if we don't like it we can keep thinking of something else. We have time.
Matt: "This is true. And who knows what wisdom the rest of the council might have in their midst as well."
Matt: "They have members from all across the world. We'll see which resources they have at their disposal."
Taliesin: I'm sure they're waiting for us.
Matt: "I am glad to be free of my usual business. Are you guys familiar with the Wilder Fens?"
Liam: Sorry? The Wilder Fens?
Matt: "The Wilder Fens? They're a bloody merchant guild. They've left our chambers in shambles. Look, since you've been gone and the council map has been brought brought up to speed once more, we've had to deal with the backlog of all the various council meetings that have been pushed back and pushed back for months and months. It's been rather nightmarish. So this, all dangerous as it is, I'm taking it as a nice change from the usual, pardon my speaking, political bullshit I've been dragged into on a weekly basis. Between Wilder Fens, and there was the Cortigian League from Wildmount, and they just tore through Emon with a caravan of partying gypsies that destroyed everything in their path."
Marisha: Who?
Orion: Damn gypsies.
Matt: "The Cortian League."
Marisha: The Cortian League.
Matt: "From Wildmount, the north."
Taliesin: We fought stitch monsters, that was mostly what we... it was guns and swords and...
Matt: "It's far more interesting. Most of our guests have been a bit rough around the edges. Although I would say we did manage to meet with Syldor of Syngorn. We have some business there getting Syngorn situated."
Laura: Oh, Syldor!
Matt: "And Lord and Lady Briarwood were rather nice to us when they came into the town. So, business has been... fair."
Taliesin: Shall we take this to the council then?
Liam: Yes, we have pressing matters. We'll get to that later.
Matt: "All right. Let's go to the council then."
Matt: As you guys make your way back down through the tower, you eventually venture through the castletop district in front of the palace. The guards stand there with their long, red, velvet cloaks and their brass breastplates. They recognize both Allura and you as you approach. They step aside, put their spears toward the steps, and give you a grand entrance to the front of the palace.
Matt: As you step up, the front doors open on their own with a large heavy shaking of the wood. As the palace doors open, you are led into the central chambers of the main palace walkway which splits to the right and left, and then across leads into the main throne room. However, you guys are meeting in the council room which is to the left. You've been there twice before.
Matt: So you're led over to the council chambers, which, as you enter the main circular room, you're brought into the nice hardwood floors, the dark forest green colored walls, these long tapestries which recall various battles of history and broad mountainous landscapes showing settlers making their way across dangerous terrain. You can see various weapons from different civilizations that were brought up as gifts to Emon that have been mounted on the walls as presentory atmospheric decor. And in the central room, you can see what currently stands, the entirety of the Tal'Dorei council, in a hushed discussion. The council, of course, has at the center, across the table from you, Sovereign Uriel Tal'Dorei the Second himself. The leader of Emon and the current Sovereign of all of Tal'Dorei, this section of the continent. You see him with his characteristic dark hair, with greying sides, cut shorter than you recall. Looks like he recently got a trim and some very well kept facial hair. He's wearing his ceremonial robes which are the same gold and red color as the armored soldiers that greeted you at the front of the palace. Next to him, you see Lord Riskell Daxio, the elven male who helped you guys handle the purchasing of the keep when you were awarded that at the end of your last journey. He's the Master of Trade currently within Emon. You can see he has long strawberry blonde hair that is pulled into a tight ponytail to the back. He wears darker clothing, more for decoration than actual use. His armor seems to be loose and more decorative. Next to him is Guardian Tofor Brotorus, which you've heard of but have not met before. A female dragonborn paladin.
Marisha: Say that one more time? Guardian who's a what now?
Matt: Guardian Tofor Bratoras.
Marisha: To-for?
Matt: T-O-F-O-R. Bratoras. Her name's been mentioned before but this is the first time you guys have actually seen her in person.
Ashley: It's a girl?
Matt: It's a female dragonborn paladin. She is adorned in full, silvered platinum plate. That has currently carved multiple symbols of Bahamut, the Platinum Dragon. As she looks up and notices, you can see she gives a hand up, a symbol of greetings towards Kima. As Kima also gives her hand up and they both touch the front of their armor in a symbolic holy way, they both being followers of Bahamut. You immediately make that religious connection between the two of them. She looks across at the rest of the group there that she doesn't seem to notice, eyes meeting with Tiberius. This is strange. You haven't seen very many dragonborn at all within Emon, and as soon as she meets your gaze, she gives you a look of deep, deep stinkeye.
Orion: Hello. My name is Tiberius Stormwind. Of House Stormwind, from Draconia. Tofor: "From Draconia, you say?"
Orion: Yes. I'm sure you've heard of my father Kravanas, my mother Penelope? Tofor: "And perhaps you should close that trap and sit across the table as far from me as possible. "
Matt: She seems to spit the words almost, and sits back in her chair.
Orion: Mind your tongue.
Matt: The rest of the council's talking amongst themselves and hearing this slight discussion. Next to her there is a halfling male, in a ranger-ish garb, wearing what looks like some really fine chain shirt, with a thick dark black cloak. He is shaved bald with tattoos on one side of his face, and he introduces himself.
Matt: "I'm terribly, sorry. I did not mean for there to be any sort of misunderstanding here."
Matt: He gives a slight nudge to Tofor.
Matt: "I do not believe we've met at this time. My name is Seeker Asum Emring. I am the master of secrets here within the council."
Matt: He extends his hand towards you, almost like alleviating the tension.
Orion: Hi. Stormwind here. Seeker Asum: "I assume you're the ones we're waiting for, please have a seat."
Matt: At which the sovereign finishes discussion with another human which you have not met. He is a built and armored individual, stands probably the tallest of the entire group, thick square jaw, unshaven. At which point he puts his hand on the sovereign's shoulder and says,
Matt: "I suppose I should introduce myself as well. I've heard much about you, Vox Machina. I am Arbiter Braum Goldhand. I have recently taken up as of three months ago the position that General Kreig once held within the city. Since he was unfortunately lost to us, there was a need for a new master of law. As since I've had a lot to keep up on. Unable to meet you personally until now, but it is a pleasure. I've heard nothing but great things."
Matt: He sits down in his chair. Allura finds her side of the table and gestures the rest of you.
Matt: "Please, have a seat."
Orion: I stand. I don't sit.
Matt: All right.
Matt: The overeign finishes writing some papers, rolls them up, snaps twice, and a gentleman comes by. He hands him the papers and says,
Matt: "Get this to Lady and Lord Briarwood as soon as possible, thank you."
Matt: "All right. First of all, I want to welcome you all back. It's been a few weeks since we've seen each other. I've been recently given word that you unceremoniously appeared in the center of the Lyceum not but twelve hours ago, worse for wear. So I would like to know, first off, why you've returned in the center of our city. And I want to see how you've all been these past few weeks. I apologize if I'm a bit scattered I’ve had a few things on my mind as of late. But yes, how is Vox Machina."
Liam: If I may. We didn't choose to dump ourselves right in the middle of the city. That was born out of necessity, not out of choice. The task we set out to finish proved a lot more complicated than originally perceived. Frankly, I worry about the safety of the city of Kraghammer. Underneath their home down in the bowels of the earth, I'm don't know how much the council knows about the race of the illithid. We stumbled into a veritable hornets' nest of them below the city.
Matt: Most faces are blank. Allura has her hands on the table, listening intently. As you say illithid, you do notice that Seeker Asum Emring, the halfling, immediately sits back in his chair with a look of 'oh, snap'.
Liam: I see a lot of blank stares at this table. I wasn't very familiar with them either. There is an entire city in the underdark beneath Kraghammer. And... ... in their midst was a beholder that was controlling the entire city. We ended up destroying it, barely escaping with our lives. Fleeing the city... destroying a god? I think.
Laura: I don't think we destroyed the god.
Orion: The beholder is merely a demi-demon.
Laura: Yes, it was something he had possessed, but the god still lives.
Liam: Yes, but Orcus was behind the beholder.
Marisha: We just have the horn.
Liam: We killed K'varn and then he got back up again. He didn't get himself back up.
Marisha: Because Orcus is a god of necromancy and undeath.
Orion: That's what the horn did. It brought him back to life when he would die. That's why I ripped it out when we did it because I knew that's what was going on. That's what the horn does.
Liam: I just worry that it's not just an appliance. It's got hidden in it something --
Orion: It absolutely has -- Remember, it laughed at me when I tried to crush it --
Liam: --is what I'm saying.
Matt: Allura looks at you strangely.
Matt: "Tiberius, you sound different."
Orion: I was talking to --
Matt: I know.
Liam: Be that as it may we riled up a city of --
Taliesin: Mind flayers.
Liam: Buttholes as Tiberius would call them. -- very unhappy race of things below the surface of the earth. Now, we're here today because Tiberius, crafty as he is, was able to flee ahead of us and create a portal back here. We ended up falling ass over tea kettle in the Lyceum, so here we are.
Matt: "Well, welcome back."
Liam: Thank you.
Matt: "It's glad to see you're safe."
Liam: We've brought a little bit of the evil with us.
Matt: At which point the table gets extremely uncomfortable, suddenly. As everyone steps back, Kima steps forward. She's kept to the back at this point, and says,
Matt: "It's all right. I will speak for this group as you also know of their exploits and their abilities. They saved me from what was probably certain death and torture and aided me in stopping what darkness was beneath Kraghammer. At least what we could. But, listen to what they have to say and understand they are as trustworthy as they come."
Matt: At which point the sovereign lifts a hand up to her and says,
Matt: "Well Kima, your word is trusted and I appreciate you also have returned to us healthy. So. What is this evil you bring with you?"
Liam: We have it stored safely away.
Marisha: Yes.
Liam: But this beholder... ... was using an artifact, a horn. Emanating darkness and shit. And Tiberius, in the heat of the battle, ripped it from its pate. And we brought it back with us.
Marisha: It is one of the two horns of Orcus.
Matt: At that notification, you say the name Orcus, and you can see there's a whole energy shift in the room at which point. A lot of furrowed brows drop to intense. The actual air of the room seems to go still for a moment. From what you can see, Seeker Asum and Tofor both grit their teeth and lean forward as you say this. Tofor says, Tofor: "You said Orcus?"
Taliesin: Yes.
Orion: Are you deaf?
Marisha: Tiberius.
Taliesin: Manners.
Liam: We see the apprehension written on your faces and we are nervous as well. But the alternative was leaving the horn with these illithid. Hundreds if not thousands of illithid. We had to make a judgement call rather quickly, and... ... frankly leaving it there with them seemed like it wasn't an option. Tofor: "You've done right in bringing it here. This has to be destroyed. Sent as far away-- If this is indeed an artifact of Orcus, it cannot exist on this plane."
Taliesin: Plans must be drawn up.
Marisha: That's kind of what we thought.
Orion: Yes we knew this already.
Matt: At which point Kima steps forward and says
Matt: "Now, understand this is not something you can lock in a box, or put some guards around it. There was a reason this was forgotten and needs to be again. With the proper surrounding strength and formidable individuals, I can take it to the grand chantry in Osthania where the High Paladin Archibald will reseal it. Far away from the eyes and minds of the world. Lest we can come up with some sort of way to destroy this item."
Matt: At which point the Arbiter, Braum, steps forward. Arbiter Braum: "If you think there's possibly a way to destroy this, we need to discover this here. We cannot allow it outside of the midst of this, to some chaotic winds and whim of the world around us. We have the walls of Emon to keep it safe. Why not take it to the Lyceum."
Liam: I want to make an insight check on the whole table.
Travis: Dang.
Taliesin: I want to also double-check, who was it that handed off the letter to the Briarwoods?
Matt: That was the sovereign.
Taliesin: Sovereign? Thank you.
Matt: So which individual, the Arbiter?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, Arbiter Braum. What'd you roll?
Liam: Just a ten.
Matt: Ten?
Ashley: Can I insight the seeker?
Matt: Sure.
Matt: What's your insight roll?
Ashley: Thirteen.
Matt: Thirteen? Okay.
Taliesin: I would like to insight the sovereign just because, reasons.
Ashley: Yeah, we do.
Taliesin: One.
Matt: Starting the game off strong guys.
Laura: I think you need some Florida rolling.
Taliesin: I'm just an idiot thinking.
Laura: I think you need some Florida rolling.
Liam: Yeah, I think so too. You're awfully quiet.
Laura: I'm going to insight check as well!
Laura: Because Matt can totally whisper to me if I get this good.
Liam: He'll text you.
Matt: I'll text it to you.
Liam: Roll high.
Laura: Hold on, I'm looking.
Travis: She's rolling.
Laura: Seventeen.
Matt: Eleventeen?
Travis: Seventeen!
Laura: Seventeen!
Matt: A total of 17?
Liam: Eleventy-seven.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: On which individual?
Liam: Which person at the table, sis?
Laura: You.
Liam: Your brother?
Laura: Oh no! On the deep voiced guy!
Ashley: The Arbiter.
Matt: Okay. Arbiter Braum.
Laura: Yes, the arbiter. (all laugh)
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: You!
Liam: Why you gotta be like that, huh?
Matt: I'll say in a general feel about the room, but the arbiter specifically, There is definitely a very quick rising in tension, fear, and adrenaline in the room at this conversation. Fear is the main thing you're getting. I wouldn't say that you sense any deception. You just sense that the stakes have just suddenly jumped from what they were expecting their morning to be. They're trying to wrap their head around it. So nothing too particular catches your shit radar.
Laura: All right.
Travis: We are not leaving the horn here.
Laura: No..
Taliesin: We would have to leave you here.
Matt: As Grog speaks up for the Arbiter, he says, Arbiter Braum: "I'm not saying we leave it here. I'm saying that while we have it here, we have it studied. Bring it to the Lyceum. The headmaster and his entire research facility could possibly find a way to destroy it. There is no finer arcane focus than that lyceum in the city. They're responsible for the construction of our sky ships. And the crystals that keep them elevated."
Orion: I love skyships.
Laura: I believe the power would be too great. It will corrupt. People will want to take it for themselves. Arbiter Braum: "Then it has to be taken elsewhere and sealed. Like Kima was requesting."
Marisha: So you're saying essentially our two options are we can either keep it here and study it to try and figure out a way to destroy it and have all of the risks of this horn being inside the city or we take the other massive risks of trying to ship it off somewhere and hope that it gets sealed away?
Matt: At which point, Tofor the female dragonborn sits up in her chair and says, Tofor: "Regardless. It should not stay here in my opinion. Understand the longer it resides within Emon, the more word will spread. And more despots will be drawn to our city to claim it. Do you wish to have all the darkness of this land slowly swarm in on the city?"
Liam: I think we're of a like mind.
Orion: Yes.
Liam: I think we should take it from the city.
Marisha: I think it's a giant target on our backs right now.
Orion: I turn to the Arbiter.
Orion: There is something that you should know. During our battle with K'varn, which was the name of the beholder, which the horn resided upon its head. When I ripped it from its head, I held it in the telekinesis state. I attempted to crush it for not knowing what it was at first. Just knowing it was bringing creatures back to life. When I attempted to do so, I heard somewhat of a laughter in the back of my mind. I fear whatever this is attached to might be aware, or if anything, more aware than it was previously. I'm not sure if it was alerted by being placed on the beholder's head to begin with, but I heard something.
Orion: Looking at Tofor.
Orion: I agree with the peasant. That we should get it out of here immediately.
Matt: At which point the sovereign who's been kinda quiet this moment, says,
Matt: "Well. Best I can tell at this point, it should not stay in Emon. We've had enough trouble in this city and enough issues here that we're having to deal with in the aftermath of the attack on my family. We do not have the mental will nor the ability to withstand any sort of assault either from the inside or the outside of the city. If we are to take it elsewhere I trust the opinion of you, of Kima, and Allura."
Matt: At which point Allura takes a moment and says,
Matt: "Just the knowledge of such a thing existing, let alone two, in this world is dangerous. Who knows what horrors an individual could achieve should they find both horns. Now, wherever this gets taken, the knowledge that all of us know that these exist now, and anyone else beyond this, means that that's a leak. That's a weakness. Now I've heard of some magics that can erase selective memories permanently. Ancient magics."
Matt: At which point as she starts saying this, the rest of the room shifts uncomfortably. You can see Tofor begins to raise her hand to protest. Allura shuts her down and says,
Matt: "But, I'd not employ these unless they were absolutely necessary. I need to speak with the Arcana Pentsafocal and see if this is such a strange and necessary circumstance to allow the use of such magics. That will take me some time to get the entire conclave to agree, but I think it's possible. It may be the only way, if we can not destroy this, to make sure that the rest of this world never knows that it existed. I think that's the safest route. As for getting it out of the city I feel that we have two individuals here, two followers of Bahamut, both the deity that saw the deity, brought the vision to Kima, and presented, whether in a roundabout way, the power and strength of these individuals to eventually retrieve it and prevent it from being an artifact that instrumentally destroyed the dwarven city and quite possibly all of Tal'Dorei. So I think if there was a god whose guidance we can look into, I would put my trust in the clergy of Bahamut."
Matt: She looks to Kima. Kima nods her head.
Orion: Of course we'd agree with such sentiments as well.
Matt: Kima raises her maul and says,
Matt: Well then, if that's to be the case, "I'll send word over to the rest of my temple. We'll send over our finest paladins, clerics, and guardians. Prepare a box for travel. We'll take it across the sea. Then we shall seal this bastard."
Orion: Kima.
Travis: Yeah! Oh. Sorry. (all laugh)
Orion: Kima, when you do approach your king, propose because Orcus's horn is pure black evil, perhaps the side of light can help as well. The blessing of Sarenrae and other light sources, divine powers, could be helpful as well.
Matt: "The horn will remain here until the vessel is brought over. But we have holy vessels specifically designed for the keeping of remains or things that are of great evil. We would gladly welcome the blessing of something from Sarenrae as well. After all, there is nothing wrong with more positive energy instilled to maintain such a negative force."
Marisha: I personally don't trust this horn travelling anywhere without at least one of our supervision.
Matt: At which point the sovereign speaks up and says,
Matt: "And to be completely honest, we are very grateful you've brought the horn here. But you are a motley crew. Who is to say any of you are also immune to this corruption as well? Who's to say you eight carry the mental willpower to withstand this darkness any better than a group of paladins designed and trained their entire lives to withstand and destroy this evil. What assurance do I have that your attachment to nature will not become some dark, brambled, twisted, thing in the proximity of this artifact? None. Just keep that in mind."
Orion: I look to the group and do this to Scanlan. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Taking quite advantage of his current state of mind.
Orion: You have no idea what I'm going to do for the rest of this game.
Travis: You literally do that to Scanlan. Like you... to Scanlan?
Orion: No, I was pointing at him.
Liam: Right in the ear.
Matt: Wet willy. To our little gnome bard.
Orion: (laughs)
Matt: We miss you Sam.
Matt: Uriel looks around.
Matt: "Well, given the circumstance I would say that our best bet now is to have Kima and Tofor reach out to the grand chambers of Bahamut. Have them bring a vessel and seal it somewhere that they find fit for an object of this dark presence. Is the council in agreement of this? Unless some other, better means arises. How long will it take for this vessel to arrive?"
Matt: At which point, Kima scratches her chin for a second.
Matt: "By the fastest ships, especially if we're using some of your fancy sky dinghies. I can't imagine more than two weeks?"
Marisha: Two weeks?!
Matt: At which point --
Orion: That's 14 days, your highness.
Marisha: (sighs)
Laura: That was adorable.
Ashley: A fortnight?
Matt: At which point Allura stands forward and says,
Matt: "It's in the means of --"
Marisha: You guys don't have any holy ships here. You don't have like a ship dock?
Orion: I'm sure if they did they would probably use that one.
Taliesin: But I'm using it. (all laugh)
Matt: At this point Allura sits forward and to the rest of the group, says,
Matt: "To be fair Kima, in my experience and knowledge, ships function well for the movement of goods and large objects. The speed of this requires some expediting and I happen to have a friend who is over in Osthania, probably not far from your clergy. Perhaps we can facilitate a two-day travel?"
Matt: At which point the group leans back for a second and Kima goes,
Matt: "Well fine. Yeah, I guess."
Matt: Shoots a dirty look a little bit to --
Marisha: Can I do an insight check on Allura really quick?
Matt: Sure.
Liam: She's saying a ship will be ready in two days or take two days to travel?
Matt: Allura's saying,
Matt: "Depending on the size of this vessel, why do we even need a ship? We have the ability to transport between the cities. If we can pool our resources, there's no reason why we can't bring them here nearly instantaneously."
Marisha: Thirteen.
Matt: Thirteen? Best you can tell, Allura's really hard to read. She keeps up her smile but she definitely has her intense face on. She's deep in the moment. No real gives one way or the other. The rest of the group looks around and Arcanist in the silence goes,
Matt: "Well then, I think that me and Kima and Tofor, if you'd like, we can designate a way of bringing this relic container as fast as possible so we can get this going. I wish not to keep this within our presence much longer. Do we agree to that?"
Orion: Yes.
Taliesin: Yes.
Liam: I think we would feel comfortable going along for the ride and seeing this thing through to the end.
Matt: She glances over to the sovereign. The sovereign nods.
Matt: "Very well. Very well, I'll allow it. I may have some business for you coming soon so try not to be gone too long. Although this is much more important business, I do agree."
Matt: Then he gives a laugh and smile to raise a bit of levity in the room that nobody seems to respond to.
Matt: "But nevertheless if you wish to travel and see this through I don't see there would be any complaint."
Matt: He looks to Lady Kima and Kima says,
Matt: "No, not at all. We've gotten along swimmingly so far. Mostly. Very well. I'm bad at this political stuff."
Matt: Kima steps back a little bit, Kima: "I defer to the rest of you."
Matt: Puts her maul on the ground and awkwardly looks away. The sovereign goes,
Matt: "Very well. It is settled. Reach out to your clergy. Bring the vessel. Allura, facilitate its arrival. We will get this artifact as far away from Emon as possible. This is adjourned. Thank you all very much for coming to this council meeting."
Marisha: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to catch the sovereign on his way out.
Matt: All right. At which point everyone gathers the rest of their papers, their parchments, they're rolling up scrolls. The Arbiter gets up and lumbers his way out of the room. The seeker, Asum, steps up to the rest of you with a final handshake.
Matt: "A pleasure to meet you all, once again, I've heard so much. You're doing fine work."
Matt: He seems strangely nervous. But in a weird way, he's a gentle hint of fanboy.
Travis: Oh.
Laura: I wink at him. (all laugh)
Matt: He slyly winks back on his way out.
Matt: As he exits, Tofor stands up. You've only seen her sitting since you arrived. As Tofor stands in her female dragonborn form, she is probably a good solid foot taller than Tiberius. And is a thick musclebound dragonborn paladin of Bahamut. Her armor shifts as she stands, she begins to make her way towards the door, not even with a glance in your direction.
Orion: That means she's as tall as you, Grog.
Travis: What?
Orion: She's as tall as you.
Marisha: I just whisper to Tiberius and say,
Marisha: Are all the ladies that big in Draconia?
Orion: It all depends. Not really.
Matt: She's bigger than usual.
Orion: She's a wretched peasant so I can not.
Marisha: That's so mean.
Liam: That's a little harsh.
Matt: Allura stands up and begins to leave. The sovereign stands up and as he stands up the guards come out and they come to his side.
Taliesin: Good Sovereign, if I can have a moment? Did I hear correctly that Lord and Lady Briarwood were in town?
Matt: "They were but a week ago."
Taliesin: They were but a week ago? And they've left, have they?
Matt: "Yes. Do you know of Lord and Lady Briarwood?"
Taliesin: Just in passing. Did they have business in town? Was there something in particular? I'm just curious. It doesn't really matter. I mean it does matter but not particularly.
Matt: "It was relatively routine, we're establishing an official trade route through the northeast. Spanning the Boreal Plane to Whitestone."
Taliesin: Oh.
Matt: "They inherited the region after the unfortunate demise of the Derolo family."
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: "However our ambassador has noted that they've rebuilt rather well and honored the memory of the family and they're really committed to reestablishing the foothold of Whitestone in the north. So they came here on a diplomatic mission to open trade."
Taliesin: That's nice. I would love to. Please, keep it quiet, but if I could be notified if they're coming through again. I would like very much to surprise them, if that would be possible.
Orion: Am I standing next to Percy? Am I hearing this?
Matt: Yes.
Orion: Good.
Taliesin: It's just old business. It would be very interesting to see them again.
Matt: For the sake of this conversation, I'm going to ask you to roll a deception check.
Taliesin: Okay. Natural 20.
Marisha: (cheers)
Orion: (claps)
Marisha: On the new pretty die.
Taliesin: Don't fuck with me.
Matt: The Sovereign gives you a look and says,
Matt: "Certainly. Very well, I will notify you should they come through again."
Taliesin: Deeply honored by your thought, sir. Thank you.
Orion: At the end of this conversation I'm going to rip off a piece of the scroll of telescription and I'm going to approach.
Orion: When you do, all you do is write the message to this and we will receive it. It's an enchanted parchment. I will receive the message.
Matt: He tells you,
Matt: "I know how these work. Yes, thank you."
Matt: As you present it, he walks by and one of his guards takes it from you and gives you a nod.
Matt: They exit the chambers. You guys are escorted out into the main hallway of the palace.
Ashley: Bye!
Matt: The rest of the council
Matt: The rest of the council scatters amongst the palace proper. You are all left. The doors close behind you and the echoing hallways towards the central left side of the palace.
Taliesin: (sighs)
Marisha: Percy.
Taliesin: I'm fine.
Ashley: Are you okay?
Marisha: You're sweating.
Taliesin: I know.
Ashley: Are you okay?
Marisha: Why are you sweating?
Taliesin: It's hot.
Marisha: What happened?
Taliesin: Nothing. The sun comes up and it gets very hot. I'll tell you later.
Orion: Very good.
Taliesin: This is discussion for later. There's more important things.
Matt: Kima and Allura are near you. At which point, Kima looks at the rest of you and says,
Matt: "I apologize, I have to figure this out now. So I'm going to head to the nearest temple of Bahamut and see if we could reach out quickly."
Marisha: What should we do?
Matt: That's up to you.
Matt: She looks to Allura, questioning Allura.
Matt: "In the event of this blessed chamber arriving, you will be notified. We will request your presence to bring the artifact in question, seal it, and then we will begin our journey over to its place of hopeful destruction and/or proper banishment."
Ashley: Would you like anyone to go with you or you just want to go alone?
Matt: "To?"
Ashley: To work out the details of all of this?
Matt: Allura says,
Matt: "For me, it's just preparation of the arcane transference ritual. I'm going to go meet with a friend of mine over in Ostania."
Taliesin: I will say we haven't replenished our potions yet. And we could go --
Ashley: Should we go to visit our old friend?
Marisha: Gilmore?
Taliesin: We could go to Gilmore's.
Marisha: Gilmore?
Ashley: Gilmore?
Taliesin: We could go to Gilmore's.
Ashley: Gilmore's Glorious Goods?
Marisha: You essentially want us to wait?
Matt: "Whatever business you need to get done. It should take no more than two days to get this taken care of."
Marisha: You guys, we have a weekend! (all laugh)
Liam: This is Allura and Kima who are here?
Matt: Yeah, they're the only two who have stayed behind with you guys outside of the council chambers.
Liam: I take Pike by the hand and I walk over to Kima. And they're short so I kneel down. I say to the both of them.
Liam: I've never pretended to be a man of the cloth, I know little of the gods. But the brush we had down below has left me shaken. What can the gods tell us? The gods stick their noses into our doings whenever it pleases them. Are they not here? Have they anything to say for what is happening now?
Marisha: I'm with this guy! High five Vax.
Matt: At which point-- did you wish to respond in any way?
Ashley: Well, I just know that I tried to have a response from my god down below and she didn't really respond the way I would have liked for her to. But maybe things will be different. What were you going to say?
Matt: At which point Kima looks to you, at what you just said with curious worry.
Matt: "Well, if what you say is your faith has been shaken, there is always room at the temple of Bahamut to find redemption, strength, and guidance. You realize the platinum --"
Marisha: She's trying to get you to come to her church.
Matt: (laughs)
Ashley: She's trying to convert.
Marisha: She's trying to convert! Get the leaflet.
Matt: "The platinum dragon has guided much of civilization's growth, expansion, and survival for thousands of years. The eternal battle between him and the darkness that is Tiamat and the chaos beyond that --"
Marisha: With all due respect, Kima, I don't think that was Vax's question.
Matt: "To get to the point, I apologize. The gods are many and the gods have been at war for as long as we exist. There are some that believe we are nothing but the aftermath of their squabbles. But nevertheless, there is much good in this world that guides us to our ultimate destiny. And if you yourself ever feel that you are lost amongst this chaos, don't ever be afraid to stop in and ask a few questions."
Liam: I was just wondering if I could ask you to ask them, to maybe help. I would never think to ask the gods for help if I wanted a shiny new sword or pile of riches, but this is something different.
Travis: Unless they could get us a pile of riches.
Laura: Or a shining sword.
Liam: Good boy. (all laugh)
Matt: At which point Kima laughs to herself.
Matt: "There are benefits to being of the order."
Matt: Kima who does not have an accent and did not say it that way. Too many NPCs in my head right now. She says,
Matt: "But, understand. Whenever I felt lost, which was often. It's good to have that guiding warmth to turn to. And sometimes it brings you into a subterranean mountain being tortured by dwarves. Sometimes it guides you to new friends and allies. Strange the way the gods work. But, when you put your all into it, they've kept me alive so far."
Ashley: That's a really good point. I guess that's a positive way to look at it.
Marisha: I really like long walks in the forest when I'm feeling disconnected.
Ashley: That works too, you know.
Travis: Lady Kima, do the gods allow you to have relationships?
Matt: Kima, you ask this and she gives you a look of confusion, and then… She already a darker complexion for a halfling but her cheeks grow noticeably ruddier. She averts her gaze and says,
Matt: "Well..."
Travis: I start trying to do my best Vax wink.
Laura: I'm Vex.
Travis: --Vex wink. (all laugh)
Matt: She averts her gaze and goes,
Matt: "Well, as far as I know it is not a vow of chastity within the order."
Travis: So you're saying there's a chance.
Matt: She still is looking away. She looks away and looks to the rest of you. Looks to Allura. Looks to you again. And then goes,
Matt: "I really have to get to work on this."
Taliesin: You did this.
Matt: "I really have to get to work on this."
Matt: She leaves the group and continues down the hallway. Quick steps.
Ashley: Bye, Kima! Quick steps.
Liam: A lot of math involved in that equation.
Marisha: Yeah...
Matt: Allura chuckles to herself and steps into the place where she was and goes,
Orion: I care not to solve the puzzle.
Matt: "Oh, as a note. Be careful who you ask those questions to, you may get an earful."
Matt: And Allura smiles and motions towards Kima.
Matt: "Don't get me wrong, you're more than welcome to explore as you like, but that's a rabbit hole my friend."
Travis: A rabbit hole, is that what we're calling it these days?
Matt: You feel a gentle slap from some unknown arcane force across your cheek Grog. And Allura gives you a stern glare.
Marisha: Oh, don't talk about her girl that way.
Liam: Don't make me take my earrings off.
Matt: Anyway.
Matt: "So two days. We'll call for you when the item is to be transferred and properly brought to its destination. In the meantime, prepare as you see fit, enjoy this well-earned rest, and we'll take it from there. I have much travel to do myself. See you all very soon."
Matt: She begins to step up the hallway. As she steps up the hallway, you can see there's a light yellowish glow about her form. Then with a sudden flash of white light, Allura's just gone.
Marisha: So guys. I'm thinking we take a local tour of all the historical highlights of Emon. We've never really gone sightseeing, Then maybe we can catch a nice dinner in the city tonight.
Laura: Oh, look at the time.
Travis: Oh, it's getting so late.
Marisha: It's 1pm. We've got the whole day
Taliesin: It feels like eight. It really feels so late.
Marisha: I picked up one of these pamphlets while we were in the palace and apparently there's a nice natural history museum.
Taliesin: Gilmore's? Gilmore's?
Orion: Your highness, what is a pam-phlet?
Taliesin: Gilmore's?
Orion: Oh, a lot of paper.
Taliesin: I'll be at Gilmore's.
Orion: Oh, it's like a mini book!
Marisha: It's like a tiny scroll.
Orion: It has pictures!
Marisha: Yes!
Orion: Look, Percy!
Taliesin: I'm already heading towards Gilmore's.
Liam: I'm following Percy.
Travis: We're going to Gilmore's, too.
Matt: All right. You guys exit and find your way, exiting the palace and the cloudtop district to make your way to Abedar's Promenade to enter and reunite with your good friend Gilmore.
Matt: We're going to take this moment to take a break, use the restroom, get some food.
Taliesin: We're at two? Are we at two more?
Zac: Giveaway time!
Matt: Oh, it's giveaway time. (Background: Snuggle Lord, Snuggle Lord) All right, we hit our next giveaway so we'll do that first. All right, we hit our next giveaway so we'll do that first. (Background: Snuggle Lord, Snuggle Lord) All right, so we have --
Matt: Oh no.
Marisha: Snuggle Lord?!
Marisha: It's a Snuggle Lord variant!
Taliesin: Snuggle Lord, Snuggle Lord.
Liam: There he is. (all cheer)
Marisha: Snuggle Lord has returned!
Matt: There you go, there is Snuggle Lord in his glory.
Marisha: No, not the horns of Orcus!
Orion: No, now he has the power! (all laugh)
Zac: We hit our second giveaway. (all cheer)
Zac: We're going to give one of these away. All you have to do is be active in the chat room, guys. So, if you're watching full screen, get out of full screen, be active. She can't see it, can she?
Matt: No, she can see it though.
Marisha: Can't see.
Marisha: Can you see it? Gotta tilt it down a bit.
Laura: There we go, it's so cute.
Zac: All right guys be active in the chat room. We're going to let these guys take a break. When we come back from the break, we'll announce the winner.
Marisha: Do we have a word?
Zac: Oh yeah, go for it.
Marisha: Here we'll use the word KommissarProps in the chat room.
Zac: I'll have to go set it up. Okay, I gotta run.
Matt: Go set it up. So hold that thought, until he starts it. The word will be KommissarProps.
Marisha: Say KommissarProps and definitely go follow Kai on Instagram and on Facebook
Matt: These horns will be yours. and definitely go follow Kai on Instagram and on Facebook and definitely go follow Kai on Instagram and on Facebook because he was awesome enough to make these horns for us. So Instagram and Facebook, that's where all the pretty pictures are.
Matt: You yourself can be corrupted by the evil of Orcus.
Marisha: You yourself can be corrupted if you go and find him.
Taliesin: Watch him while he sleeps.
Matt: You and RhymesWithOrange can be the two keepers of the two horns of Orcus and bring ruin to the entire world of Exandria. So that could be you. Anyway, we're taking a break. We'll see you guys back here in a little over ten minutes and we'll continue as they head towards… Gilmore's Glorious Goods.
Taliesin: Gilmore's!
Matt: All right, I gotta prepare. See you soon guys.
Matt: Hey guys, welcome back. We’re about to get in some game time again here in a second, but first we have our second winner to win the second horn of Orcus for the evening’s giveaway. We’re really excited to announce the winner of the second player’s handbook signed by the group, the dice kit, as well as this horn, is Ember72.
Matt: Ember72, congratulations.
Travis: Ember72!
Matt: You get to have this one. It’s awesome, really stoked. We now have both of these horns given away. And while these are the only horns of Orcus that’ll be out there, our fantastic propmaster over here, Kai, Kommissar Props, will be working with us in the future to do more Critical Role-based prop giveaways. And once again, definitely check out his work, he’s an amazing fabricator and propmaster.
Ashley: Those are the only two? he’s an amazing fabricator and propmaster.
Matt: These are the only two that’re gonna go out.
Taliesin: They’re the only two in the world.
Ashley: That’s really special.
Taliesin: They’re the only two in the world.
Zac: At 3600 we’ll do the starter kit, t-shirt --
Ashley: That sounded insincere, but I really meant it.
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: That did sound insincere.
Matt: We’ll see somewhere down the road. If we want to put out more stuff, we’ll see. But right now these are just an exclusive giveaway. Excited for those two guys. So everyone once again for Rhymeswithorange and Ember72, congratulations on those bits.
Marisha: Or maybe if you follow Kommissar Props, we’ll do another giveaway to the people who follow him.
Matt: Helping friends out because they do awesome work. Congratulations on that. If we can get to 3600 we’re gonna be doing some dance after the show, so hopefully we can hit that subscriber number tonight.
Zac: Plus giveaway.
Matt: Plus giveaway. Plus the signed t-shirt, the dice box, starter kit, so.
Matt: Good stuff. All right, bringing us back to the game.
Ashley: Gilmore!
Matt: So you guys, you make your way outside of the Castletop District into the center of Emon proper. Returning to Abedar’s Promenade, which is the largest central section of the city, where most of the merchantile itself seems to have gathered and been a serious conglomerate where all business in this city happens. Those who would like a quick little visual idea of the city, this is Emon.
Matt: Right there. It’s a small little -- --there is an amazing printout of this that they’ve, actually Laura and Travis, have framed and put up in their room sometime. We’ll have to go ahead and bring on the show and show you guys.
Laura: We’re gonna bring it to put on the set. At some point.
Matt: Yeah, we’ll have it too. Anyway, the Castletop District is here, the inner portion. You guys have made your way out south to the Central District and then towards Abedar’s Promenade, which is right over here. So you guys would’ve gone this way, actually. So you’re out to Abedar’s Promenade in the far eastern side of Emon, where you eventually find your way to the outskirts of your favorite purveyor of arcane mystical artifacts.
Marisha: Gilmore!
Matt: Shaun Gilmore himself.
Marisha: Shaun Gilmore.
Matt: So as you guys --
Ashley: Is that his first name?
Marisha: I didn’t know Shaun was his first name either.
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: I didn’t know Shaun was his first name either.
Taliesin: You’ve not been paying attention.
Matt: Shaun Gilmore, but you’ve always called him Gilmore.
Marisha: We’re on a first-name basis now, guys.
Matt: No one’s on a first-name basis with Gilmore.
Marisha: We are.
Matt: Gilmore is Gilmore.
Marisha: Except for maybe Vax over there.
Matt: Except for maybe, maybe Vax.
Matt: So at this point now you’re pushing about two in the afternoon. It’s extremely busy, you can hear the clopping of horse hooves on the ground, people are walking past. You’d swear as you’re stepping through the city, maybe a handful of people tend to stop and watch you guys walk through, stunned. Almost like they’d seen a celebrity on the street, as the most recent makeup of the Winter’s Crest festival was a celebration of you being the heroes who saved the city of Emon and the sovereign and his family. Apparently you are now recognizable within the city of Emon.
Liam: My sister winks.
Travis: Yeah we are.
Matt: All right, so Vax wills Vex to wink. Vex, do you accept this wink from your brother?
Laura: I do.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Other way.
Matt: Perfect, there you go.
Laura: Just a little more.
Matt: Perfect. We’ve lined it up. As you walk across the main thoroughfare, you make your way to the wide but single-story building that is Gilmore’s Glorious Goods. Of all the various shades of brown and red and brick that makes up all these buildings, Gilmore’s Glorious Goods is presented in fine, deep blue and purple fabric and a paint scheme that would look like the worst funhouse to enter. Worst or best, depending on your opinion. The entranceway is not a door but a series of hanging beads and large cloth drapes that are gently falling to be brushed aside as you enter. It’s not as big as you remember, or recall, seemingly. But as you step through the front door you remember why. Much like the TARDIS, the interior of Gilmore’s Goods is bigger on the inside. There is a magical enchantment based within this building where the interior is actually a two-story and much larger place of business. Immediately the smells of incense and fine perfumes assault your nose --
Travis: Ugh! fine perfumes assault your nose --
Matt: Like a terrible medieval Sephora.
Liam: Like coming home.
Ashley: Medieval Sephora.
Matt: A series of magically flickering ever-burning candles adorn sconces along the walls. You can see there are glass cases set out in the center of the room, there is the long wooden bar on the far end which has itself its own beaded curtain that is closed, and there are three employees of Gilmore’s Glorious Goods in their ceremonial blue and purple robes that match the exterior, staring about while there a number of other possible customers that are looking about. There are numerous bookshelves along the walls. You can see there is, next to the stairway on the far left side of this floor, there is an herbalist who specializes in dried herbs and sales in that regard. You haven't been to the upstairs yet in this complex. But you now are standing back in the comfortable, although slightly offensive to your senses, interior of Gilmore's Glorious Goods.
Liam: I'm scanning the entire store for him. I want to find him.
Matt: He's not currently visible.
Liam: Oh! He's not here?
Matt: He's not visible. Not in the main room.
Liam: All right.
Ashley: He has his private office.
Laura: Brother.
Ashley: He has his private office.
Liam: Yes?
Laura: You should get that evil Clarota helmet checked out and see what all good it does us.
Liam: What, this one?
Laura: Yep. That one.
Liam: Yes.
Marisha: Vax.
Liam: Yes?
Marisha: I say you'd be the point man here.
Liam: I think so.
Orion: I would agree.
Ashley: I think that's a really good plan.
Taliesin: I second that notion. Quintuple it.
Marisha: Yeah. The twinsies should go.
Liam: Start looking around. Start shopping. Don't pay for anything yet, because I have an arrangement.
Ashley: He can get a little discount.
Laura: He can get a little wink, wink, nudge, nudge discount.
Marisha: I go up to Vax. I put my hands on his shoulders, and I say,
Marisha: You got this.
Marisha: And I cast Enhance Ability on him.
Ashley: Yeah.
Marisha: For charisma? I'm assuming?
Liam: Let's make my hair even glossier than it already is.
Marisha: And I give him a little bit of the dad thumb.
Liam: I know that thumb.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: The dad thumb?
Marisha: Wipe the morning breakfast off of him before I send him on to school.
Matt: (laughs quietly)
Marisha: And I give him a little love tap on his behind and send him on his way.
Ashley: Send him on his merry way.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Shoulder massage.
Matt: All righty. So?
Marisha: So you have advantage rolls on all charisma rolls.
Liam: Is there a front desk?
Orion: (package crinkling)
Liam: Is there a front desk?
Matt: On the far back side, there is a very long, well-crafted dark wood desk that is adorned with what looks like small alchemical components, (package crinkling) with what looks like small alchemical components, glass tubing and -- (package crinkling) Be a little louder with those Red Vines.
Orion: Sorry. Do you want one?
Matt: I'm good, thank you.
Ashley: (laughs)
Matt: We're good. You can see there are a number of glass containers and small corked vials --
Liam: I'm sorry, he's looking for Gilmore.
Marisha: (laughs)
Liam: They're going to flirt together.
Matt: (laughs)
Orion: It's like watching a movie.
Marisha: (giggles)
Liam: Sorry.
Matt: It's all right. There are some books stacked up. There is a small, embedded glass case that seems to have a couple of items that are under a purplish-maroon, velvet piece of material that's currently covering them. There is that beaded curtain with strips of material that block the back room.
Liam: Okay, and there's a person manning the --
Matt: No, not currently. It is just an empty desk.
Liam: Is there a bell or anything?
Matt: There is a bell.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: As you hit the bell, one of the employees who is helping somebody looks around and goes,
Matt: "I'm sorry."
Matt: What you see is a half-elven woman with thick spectacles who is currently stepping over to try and stop you. However, the beaded curtain swishes open with the grandiose gesture of one slightly meaty hand. Stepping out in his fine, gold-trimmed, purple robes, his longish thick, black, coarse hair pulled into a nice ponytail. Smoothly-shaved face with a slight hint of a braided goatee that dangles about three inches from his chin.
Liam: Will you remind me because it's been a while. Gilmore's a good-looking man, though, isn't he?
Matt: Yeah. He's handsome.
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: Is the braid new? Is that a new addition?
Laura: He's so handsome, Vax.
Marisha: The braid's new. He decided to rock the braid. Go for it!
Matt: Gilmore's a very handsome gentleman. I would say he's not fit and muscular. He is a handsome, comfortably jovial gentleman.
Liam: I'm picturing Jeremy Irons in a wizard robe.
Matt: Kind of. Imagine him with a little more paunch.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: But very charismatic. Open chest to his vest, with a number of gold chains and medallions that dangle around.
Liam: I feel you.
Matt: It's almost like a wizard's track suit. (all laugh)
Liam: You ruined it for me, man!
Taliesin: And it's dead.
Marisha: Please tell me it says "arcane" on the butt?
Matt: No. (all laugh)
Matt: He's very well-dressed, but his presentation is definitely a presentation. As the hand swishes open, he goes,
Matt: "I'm sorry, was I being summoned?"
Orion: Yes.
Matt: He immediately looks and goes,
Matt: "Oh. You've returned."
Liam: Gilmore, you glorious bastard. How have you been?
Matt: He immediately rushes to the edge and leans over the counter to give you a grandiose hug and actually lifts you off your feet. Much stronger than you anticipated. He goes,
Matt: "Oh, Vax'ahlia. It's been far too long."
Matt: He sets you down next to him behind the counter and gives you a big hug, his strong wizard arms around you. A scent of what's almost like fine herbs with a hint of patchouli enters your nose.
Taliesin: (laughs)
Liam: You naughty man. You just called me by my sister's name. That is going to cost you.
Marisha: (gasps)
Matt: "I said Vax! What do you mean?"
Liam: I heard "Vex'ahlia." That's ridiculous. Preposterous. Can we go to the videotape? Anyone?
Marisha: Instant replay!
Orion: Actually, Vax, he was correct. He said your name correctly. I believe you owe him a little something now.
Marisha: I think it was a little bit of combination. A little bit of column A, a little bit of column B. I think he called you Vex'ahlia.
Liam: Water under the bridge.
Marisha: Or Vax'ahlia, is what he called you.
Orion: He called you Vax'ahlia, which I call you in my sleep.
Liam: Shut up, you.
Liam: I lean in.
Matt: He looks genuinely perturbed and embarrassed by the whole circumstance.
Matt: "I --"
Liam: I lean in. I pat him on the hand.
Liam: Don't you worry. We have come from far and away. You would not believe the shit we have been through, but I don't want to talk about me. I want to talk about you. What has been going on in this city since we've been gone?
Matt: "Well."
Matt: And he looks about the rest of you and says,
Matt: "Obviously you've brought the rest of your friends here. Come, sit! Story time, story time!" (all laugh)
Matt: "Please sit around."
Orion: Fantastic.
Matt: "We have been doing marvelously. Trade has opened up wide in Emon. We've had travelers from all over Tal'Dorei and beyond. It's incredible." (all giggle)
Matt: "I'm in the process of planning an expansion to another town. Perhaps even --"
Laura: Oh, my.
Matt: "--perhaps even opening a second store in Westruun."
Marisha: You're going to own a chain?
Orion: Congratulations!
Matt: "Perhaps."
Orion: This is a big step for any businessman.
Taliesin: Spectacular.
Matt: "But yes. No, I have been able to take on two more arcanists. We've been in the process of designing some more interesting, wondrous items. We have stocked many of our recent possible and available items. We are doing quite well for ourselves."
Orion: Are you looking for investors, Gilmore?
Matt: "I technically am your investor, in a way."
Orion: Oh.
Laura: He is.
Marisha: True, we are sponsored by him.
Matt: "But. If you have the money in which to sponsor our business, that's a whole other discussion."
Orion: I just wanted you to talk to me for a little bit. Vax, take it away.
Matt: "Dragonborn. But yes! How about yourselves? You look like you've --"
Matt: He gives you all a look over.
Matt: "--like you've maybe not slept in a fortnight."
Liam: Well. We're lucky we're not dead. It came close a couple of times. We were off on official business for the emperor. We've been underground for weeks and weeks. We've only seen the sun for a couple of days.
Matt: "Oh. That kind of a weekend. I know how that goes."
Liam: Needless to say, our stores are terribly depleted. We are going to need to stock up a bit before we head out of town again. I don't want to rush things, though. I think my friends probably want to shop about. My sister can probably handle things for me. I would love to take a stroll with you around the city. Get a bit of lunch, a bite, and hear about what's been happening. Hear the rumors of town. We all know nobody matches your shrewdness in business. That's no surprise.
Matt: (chuckles)
Liam: But I'm wondering what you've heard. What's on the wind? Can you take the afternoon off?
Matt: He looks over at the same half-elven woman who was trying to stop you earlier. She gives a look like, 'what's he going to say?' No one's ever asked him this question. He goes,
Matt: "For you? Of course." (all laugh)
Marisha: Man date. Go for it!
Laura: Don't worry, Gilmore. We'll take wonderful care of your employees.
Matt: "Well if you wish to do business, why not do that now?"
Laura: We need to shop around first, of course.
Matt: "Very well."
Taliesin: And we're so curious as to any of these interesting and fascinating things that you've developed in the several weeks it's been since we've been here. We'd love to see what you've been working on.
Matt: "Very well. Sherri!"
Matt: The same woman, her shoulders droop.
Matt: "Yes, Gilmore?" (all laugh)
Matt: "Would you be so kind as to see to whatever our friends need? These are Vox Machina, by the way. They are currently sponsored by Gilmore's Glorious Goods, Inc, and I would very much like to make sure that they are taken care of."
Matt: "Yes, sir. I'll make sure that happens."
Matt: (laugh)
Taliesin: (laugh)
Matt: "So. Shall we?"
Liam: I think this will take a while. Let's.
Laura: Have a wonderful time, brother.
Liam: I look to my sister as we go.
Liam: Just get what I need, will you?
Laura: Of course.
Liam: Thank you.
Liam: And stroll out the door with Gilmore. Have at it, ladies and gentlemen.
Travis: Yes!
Marisha: We'll leave dinner on the stove for you.
Matt: So Sherri looks at the rest of you as they leave and goes,
Matt: "So you're all friends of Gilmore, then?"
Marisha: Yes.
Ashley: Business friends.
Matt: Business friends. All right.
Marisha: We're mutual fans of one another, if you will.
Matt: She adjusts her glasses.
Matt: "Then let's continue with the business. What are you seeking? What do you need? What are you looking for?"
Orion: I don't know. We like all kinds of things.
Marisha: Well, we definitely need potions.
Matt: "Potions. Those we can provide."
Marisha: Health potions.
Matt: "Health potions, yes. Potions of healing can be provided."
Marisha: What do you have right now?
Matt: She goes behind the counter for a second and ruffles through some stuff. Goes in the back room and comes back out with a wooden crate, pretty much. You hear the glass jangling inside as she moves it and sets it on the counter with a ting. They all eventually come to rest. She goes,
Matt: "All right, looking through here, it looks like we have about 12 regular potions of healing. We have six of greater healing. And it looks like three of superior healing."
Ashley: What's the price on the superior healing, again?
Orion: We'll take the lot.
Ashley: What's the price on the superior healing, again?
Ashley: What's the price on the superior healing, again?
Matt: "Superior healing? Let's see, currently those go for about --"
Matt: She looks at the price book, going through.
Matt: "Those will run you --"
Matt: As I go through my price book.
Ashley: We are sponsored.
Taliesin: We do keep getting turned to stone. This has been a problem, and it's been sticking around a bit. I feel like we should maybe take some precautions for the inevitable next time this happens.
Matt: "That will be 1500 gold pieces per superior."
Marisha: Is that with our sponsorship prices?
Matt: "Right, you mentioned you're sponsored. That would be a 10% discount. That would bring it to about 1350, should you wish to purchase them individually."
Ashley: Okay.
Travis: I definitely need one of those.
Laura: Wait. How much if we're purchasing them individually?
Matt: "1350 gold pieces per superior healing potion."
Orion: How much for the lot?
Laura: And if we buy in bulk, what can you bring it down to?
Matt: "If you buy all three?"
Laura: A thousand each?
Matt: "I'm sorry. You've already been given the discount via Gilmore. That price stands as it is. Let's say you buy the three remaining items, I'll give you 1200 apiece. And even that I'll probably get in trouble for, but he seems to like you."
Laura: 1200 apiece? Yes?
Travis: We'll take that.
Taliesin: Sounds good.
Laura: Three superior.
Matt: "Very well. So 3600 gold pieces. Three superior are yours."
Matt: She pulls them out of the crate and slides them across. They are thick, very heavily-made glass vials with these small glass handles on the side. You can see the interior. The liquid itself is a reddish purple, almost blood color, but there's a gold sheen as you shake it in the light. You can see there's a spark of divine glow to it.
Marisha: Like Goldschlager.
Taliesin: Classy.
Matt: Kind of. It's the worst of healing Goldschlager.
Marisha: (laughs)
Matt: "Is that all you require?"
Travis: Do you sell any love potions?
Matt: She gives you the blank stare and goes,
Matt: "No." (all laugh)
Travis: Right. Sorry for asking. Jeez.
Taliesin: I would also say we should take the six superior healing potions, as well.
Orion: Absolutely.
Matt: "The greater ones."
Taliesin: Greater.
Laura: What did we just buy? We didn't buy superior?
Taliesin: We bought the three superior. We should also get the six greater.
Laura: Six greater. All right. How much is that?
Matt: "Those are 500 apiece. With your discount, that would be 450 apiece."
Laura: But if we're buying all six, 400 apiece is a very good price.
Orion: Now, this is the Vex I miss.
Matt: Roll a persuasion check.
Marisha: Persuasion check, persuasion check!
Orion: Persuasion check, persuasion check!
Taliesin: Persuasion check, persuasion check!
Liam: Vex hasn't had a chance to haggle since the show started.
Marisha: Yep.
Liam: All she used to do before this show was haggle.
Marisha: We used to take food breaks.
Marisha: No!
Laura: Fourteen.
Matt: Fourteen? She goes,
Matt: "Let's call it an even 425 gold pieces each."
Laura: I like this. I'm comfortable with that.
Matt: "All right."
Taliesin: 425 times 6...
Matt: She brings out her arcane calculator.
Marisha: Her arcane calculator? Once again, our charity.
Matt: "That’ll be 2550 gold pieces."
Laura: All right.
Matt: And she pulls out the six that are there and she kinda slides them over the counter to you. One tips over but she catches it, leaves it there at the far end.
Travis: Careful with those.
Matt: "They’re fine, they can take a beating, they’re designed that way."
Travis: So can I.
Matt: She pushes her glasses up and looks vastly unimpressed at the presentation.
Laura: How much were the superiors again?
Matt: "The superiors were 1500 brought down to 1200 apiece, yes."
Laura: 1200. Which came to 36?
Taliesin: Thirty-six.
Taliesin: So do you have anything, we keep getting turned into stone, it’s been sort of a running theme. We were hoping you might have something to help alleviate stone skin or any --
Matt: "We do have potions of petrification removal."
Taliesin: Yes! Petrification removal.
Matt: I think. Let me check.
Matt: And she goes in the back room, rummages around for a minute, comes out and she presents two of them. They have a clear liquid that looks almost like dirty water, and they’re like thin little vials, she goes,
Matt: "These potions, when applied to the flesh, will, more of an oil I guess you would say, removes the affliction of petrification. These do cost 750 gold apiece."
Laura: We have greater restoration from Pike, and she can cure --
Matt: "Then you’re fine."
Matt: And she takes them --
Orion: How many potions are there?
Matt: "Two."
Liam: But in the heat of the moment.
Orion: Get them.
Taliesin: In the heat of the moment, it might come quite in handy.
Liam: A stone Grog in the middle of a fight?
Travis: I agree.
Orion: It takes her a day to learn that and she can only do it like once or twice at the most.
Travis: I think we need to get it.
Taliesin: I’d rather have the potions than the gold, to be fair.
Marisha: Let’s just get one.
Taliesin: And we haven’t discussed our discount.
Marisha: I should learn how to make potions. I should learn this.
Liam: Money is meant for spending.
Laura: Do we want to take one?
Orion: Take both.
Taliesin: I’d actually say we take both.
Liam: Not that I’m here.
Laura: Take both. 750 was not the discounted price.
Orion: No.
Matt: She gives you another look of like, ugh. She adjusts her glasses.
Orion: To be fair, we are spending a lot, right? Overall, so.
Ashley: Overall.
Matt: "That would come to 1350."
Taliesin: Thirteen fifty.
Travis: We’ll take it.
Laura: 1300. Remember, we’re very good friends of Gilmore’s, he said to treat us well.
Matt: Make another persuasion roll. This is my new fan dice.
Matt: It’s awesome, thank you.
Laura: That was really good.
Matt: It’s awesome, thank you.
Laura: That would be 21.
Matt: It’s a good thing. She gives you a look and goes,
Matt: "I don’t like you." (all laugh)
Matt: "Thirteen hundred."
Laura: Thirteen hundred, lovely, thank you.
Marisha: Sherri? It was Sherri, right?
Matt: "Yes?"
Marisha: Do you have any books on how to learn how to start making your own potions? Or do you know of any classes in town where maybe I could sign up for like a potion workshop?
Matt: "Nothing here, but that’s not a bad idea, might run that past Gilmore."
Taliesin: You should offer a workshop.
Marisha: You should absolutely offer a workshop.
Matt: "That’s a good idea,"
Marisha: You should absolutely offer a workshop. "otherwise the Lyceum would be the place to look."
Marisha: The Lyceum?
Matt: "Yes."
Marisha: Okay.
Orion: Do you have any potions of strength or any ability potions?
Matt: She leaves for a second, then comes back and goes,
Matt: "No, I’m afraid those were all purchased. However, we may have more in a few weeks or so. They take some time to create and the ingredients are a little bit scarce. However, trade is opening, perhaps --"
Marisha: Someone purchased all of your potion of strength potions?
Matt: "Yes."
Marisha: Oh. How many did you have?
Matt: "We had four, I believe. Varying giant strength types."
Ashley: One person did or it was just a bunch of people just buying.
Matt: "It was a handful over the period of time."
Marisha: Oh.
Orion: I’m gonna hand her also a ticket, a scroll of telescription and be like,
Orion: When it comes in, please write that it has and I will be notified via this parchment.
Matt: "Very well."
Matt: She folds it and places it in a little cubby on the side.
Orion: Thank you.
Matt: "Is there anything else you require? We have many magical, various armaments and/or protective items."
Travis: Armaments, what kind of armaments you got?
Matt: "Well, if you’ll follow me."
Matt: She leads you up the stairway to the second floor. The second floor itself is just a series of glass cases that are leaned at an angle. In these cases you can see there are different items just laid out, small labels at the bottom with
Travis: Oh. a brief description of the enchantment.
Matt: She leads you across, she goes,
Matt: "Well, first we’ll start here with the ring section."
Matt: You can see there’s a small case that has along this purplish velvet pillow, a bunch of different rings set out. She goes,
Matt: "We have varying degrees of rings of protection. These rings are designed to protect the individual who wears, we have one I believe with the basic enchantment, and one with one step higher above that."
Matt: The equivalent of a ring of protection +2.
Matt: "That ring runs 6500 gold. We have a ring of psychic resistance that does protect yourself from various mental intrusions. We have a ring of evasion that can be utilized three times a day, or one to three times a day. Should one of you not be quite quick enough to avoid any sort of incoming danger. You could allow yourself a successful escape. That runs 4500. We also have a ring of water walking. This one has been popular in the past for some various traveling troupes that wish to do various performances that require defying the surface of water. It gets a bit shifty now that I think about it, but you know, whatever folks will enjoy. Peasantry is easily pleased. So those are our rings at the moment. Should any of those tickle your fancy, please do let me know. Here --"
Matt: And she points over where there is a thick leather belt with like three straps across that looks highly well made with what looks like square runic carvings on the side.
Matt: "--this is what is referred to, and this was import from Kraghammer, but we’ve had it in here for quite some time, a belt of dwarvenkind. This belt, when adorned, does increase the physical heartiness of the individual as well as giving them positive interaction with other dwarves. And we haven’t fully tested it yet, but apparently it also seems to resist against poison intrusion in one’s body, allows you to see better in dark places, and apparently grants you the ability of speaking, reading, and writing Dwarvish."
Laura: Oh wow.
Marisha: I need that.
Matt: It is 5000 gold.
Laura: I bet that’s very expensive...
Liam: One month ago you needed that.
Marisha: Yeah.
Ashley: What was the first ring?
Travis: Ring of protection.
Matt: "The first ring was the ring of protection."
Marisha: Plus two, right?
Matt: It gives a plus two bonus to AC and saving throws.
Marisha: That’s really good.
Ashley: What was the evasion one?
Matt: "That one, that’s the ring of evasion."
Ashley: Yes, what was that?
Matt: It has three charges and it regains 1d3 charges per day. When you fail a dexterity saving throw while wearing it, you can use your reaction to expend a charge and auto-succeed on the saving throw instead. Good for people who have low dexterity.
Travis: The one that protects you psychically, could you repeat that one on the menu, please?
Matt: "The ring of psychic resistance --"
Taliesin: Oh god.
Matt: It gives you resistance to psychic damage, so anyone does damage that is psychic-based, you take half damage.
Laura: That’s not quite it.
Travis: It’s not good?
Laura: No, it’s not quite the same.
Travis: Not even for me?
Laura: Do you have anything to make Grog smarter?
Travis: Well, fuck off. (all laugh)
Matt: She looks over at him for a moment and goes,
Matt: No. No we don’t.
Laura: Any crayons so he could be occupied?
Travis: Do you have crayons?
Matt: "We have colored writing implements for children, if you’d like."
Orion: Yes, please.
Travis: I saw a few children in town. Maybe they would like them.
Matt: She goes back downstairs and comes back in a moment. She presents two small boxes that contain small colored wax things. You can see on the outside it has a picture of Gilmore, and he’s doing this, and it says Gilmore’s Glorious Colored Sticks.
Orion: Of course.
Matt: "These are usually reserved for the children of our customers, so if the children will enjoy it, enjoy."
Travis: I’ll take one of those, please.
Marisha: Yes, trust me --
Travis: The colors are quite nice.
Marisha: --the children will.
Matt: "Five gold pieces apiece."
Marisha: Five gold pieces apiece? I thought they were free, like when you go to an O’Charley’s or an Applebee’s.
Matt: "What’s an Applebee’s?"
Orion: It’s a hellhole, apparently near where you used to live.
Matt: It’s one of the layers of the Abyss, it’s like around --
Marisha: One of the infernal layers of the Abyss.
Matt: About layer 943.
Marisha: It’s getting pretty low, yeah.
Ashley: So I’ve been talking with Scanlan and I know he was interested in the plus two AC ring.
Marisha: I think we should pick that up for sure.
Ashley: What’s the price on that?
Matt: "Sixty five hundredd gold pieces for that."
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: "With your discount, that would bring it --"
Matt: Goes back and looks again at her magic calculator, I’m an actor not --
Liam: It’s an abacus.
Matt: Exactly.
Matt: "That brings it to 5850."
Ashley: Well, he does have this amazing ruby gem. He was maybe thinking of trading that for maybe bringing down the price?
Matt: Do we know how much that was worth?
Liam: Uh.
Matt: Has Scanlan looked at his sheet and found what it’s worth?
Liam: Scanlan? Speak up,
Ashley: Scanlan,
Liam: Scanlan? Speak up,
Liam: Do you know how much it’s worth?
Liam: I think you wrote it down. He’s talking quietly.
Matt: There was the diamond also that was repaired in the mending wheel.
Matt: He can look that up as well.
Marisha: There was a diamond.
Liam: Vex, do you remember how much that diamond was worth, we got that diamond --
Matt: Oh no, we lost them.
Taliesin: We lost them.
Marisha: Oh no!
Matt: Redial, redial!
Marisha: This is important!
Liam: I got it.
Marisha: How much is the diamond worth?
Matt: "Regardless. Other things of interest, nothing that would make him smarter, that would make him quicker."
Liam: This is so period. It’s just like Lord of the Rings. Beep beep beep.
Matt: Magical sending stone.
Liam: God damn it!
Marisha: Answer!
Matt: Answer your Facetime.
Marisha: Answer, bitches.
Matt: Vex!
Orion: I hate when you call and you know that they’re there and they don’t pick up.
Liam: All right, well I’m not here anyway, so I’m just gonna keep doing this, as you were.
Matt: We’ll come to it. so I’m just gonna keep doing this, as you were.
Matt: "Regardless."
Marisha: We know you’re there!
Matt: She continues on, showing you through, she goes,
Matt: "Well, I don’t necessarily have anything that would make him smarter. We do have something that would make anyone quicker."
Matt: She goes a second, there is a big, thick leather tome.
Matt: "This is an ancient tome that was enchanted many, many generations back. Upon properly reading and studying this tome, one would increase their physical dexterity permanently."
Marisha: Oh, I like that.
Matt: "It only has its abilities and power once a century, so it does come quite pricey."
Marisha: What is that price?
Matt: "Fifteen hundred gold pieces."
Marisha: We should buy that.
Ashley: We should probably buy it.
Marisha: A tome that increases your dexterity plus one.
Laura: It’s on my phone now. We switched.
Matt: That’s okay.
Matt: "So there is the manual of quickness of action, we also have the hat of disguise --"
Matt: And she produces this like -- (Facetime noises)
Matt: And she produces this like --
Matt: She produces this fine brass cap that has intricate swirling runes on it and what looks like a small set of ears that are pushed on the sides so when it fits on the head it looks almost like a smaller head on top of yours. She says,
Matt: "This cap when worn, however, one can alter their appearance however they see fit. We also have --"
Matt: She pulls out this thick, leather armor that has a brownish-blue trimmed hue to it and goes,
Matt: "This is what we refer to as coldsnap leather armor. It has an enchantment to improve one’s armor class by two. While wearing it, you have resistance to cold damage."
Marisha: Is it leather armor, you said?
Matt: "Leather armor, yes."
Marisha: How much is that?
Matt: "That is 7500 gold pieces. We also have the cape of Mountebank. It is a cape that when triggered --"
Matt: She takes it and shifts it for a second, you can see a little bit of smoke plumes off of it, smells sulfurish. She goes,
Matt: "While wearing it, you can use it to teleport yourself a short distance instantaneously, once per day. We have this --"
Matt: She pulls another dark cloak off the wall. This one looks like it’s made of dark fur, but as she shakes it you can see these two little tendrils are on it. They like wiggle about, these little spiked edges to the tendrils.
Matt: "This is a cloak of displacement, enchanted and taken from the body of a displacer beast. While wearing it, it makes it so your body projects an illusion. Anyone attempting to cause you harm has difficulty actually finding purchase on your physical form, not knowing where you truly stand."
Orion: I will take that cape.
Matt: "It is 4500 gold pieces."
Orion: Wonderful. Vex?
Orion: Oh, shit. She’s not here.
Matt: "I’ll put this aside as a possibility. We have a pearl of power."
Matt: She pulls up from this small box, she opens up the top lid.
Matt: "This enchanted pearl, you can use it to speak a command word and regain one expended spell slot, up to third level, that you’ve already used. Once you’ve used the pearl, it can’t be used until the next dawn, so once per day you can just return. It’s for your caster-types."
Marisha: A third-level spell?
Matt: "Yes, up to third level, one spell slot, you can immediately restore it. It does require attunement, however, and you can’t have more than three items attuned to you, so be aware of your limitations."
Ashley: What’s the price on that one?
Matt: "This is 550 gold pieces."
Ashley: Okay.
Orion: Pike, do you have any 3rd-level healing spells?
Ashley: Do I have 3rd-level healing spells? I do.
Matt: "We’ll put it aside as a possibility. I also have --"
Matt: And you move to the side, going through the armor section as well, she goes --
Matt: "I have a mithral chain shirt, as well as an enchanted mithral chain shirt, there is a plus one enchantment on it as well. They are flexible and can be worn under normal clothing, does not impose disadvantage on dexterity or stealth checks. It is considered light armor. There is golden chainmail, it’s a plus one enchantment."
Matt: Then she goes to what looks to be a series of weapons. She brings forth a very fine-looking dagger, that has --
Liam: Everyone hears from the back, Scanlan’s voice piping up saying, "Just buy all this shit!"
Marisha: Just buy all this shit.
Ashley: Buy everything.
Marisha: How much money did we have? Didn’t we have like at least --
Liam: Thirty... thirty-ish. I mean, I’m not here, but --
Matt: And you still have money you haven’t collected in Kraghammer, too.
Marisha: Huh?
Matt: There’s money you still haven’t collected in Kraghammer. Lord Nostoc Greyspine, you guys made a deal with him before you went down in the pits.
Liam: So maybe we could open up a line -- I’m sure you guys could open up a line of credit with my buddy Gilmore.
Marisha: A line of credit?
Liam: Yeah, an I.O.U. Once we’re back from our day.
Marisha: So we’ve got like roughly 30k?
Liam: In our possession now. Thirty-one.
Orion: We have over that. Because Vex and Grog are with us. And they have --
Matt: She has all the money. So we’ll just keep track of what you guys spend and bring it back to Vex, your treasurer. And she’ll be really angry that you guys spent all that money.
Liam: She’s trying, she’s trying, it’s coming up on my phone.
Orion: The trick is, we don’t know how much the total is.
Marisha: We generally would if our party’s here. She just can’t tell us at this moment.
Orion: It’s well over thirty. I think we have closer to fifty. ... maybe forty.
Matt: So she presents this dagger to you guys --
Marisha: We don’t want to deplete all of our funds.
Matt: So she presents this dagger to you guys --
Matt: "This is a fine dagger,"
Marisha: We don’t want to deplete all of our funds.
Matt: "This is a fine dagger, the blood runs themselves are enchanted --"
Marisha: We also spent a lot on the keep, "the blood runs themselves are enchanted --" don’t forget that, we dumped a lot of money into the keep.
Matt: Yep, you did.
Marisha: So we might have more like thirty.
Matt: You guys spent quite a bit on the keep. All right.
Ashley: What’s this dagger?
Matt: "This dagger actually can take the lifeforce from an enemy when delivering a very strong blow."
Matt: Essentially, on a critical hit on the attack roll -- (all cheer)
Ashley: We got it. (all cheer)
Orion: Here they are. (all cheer)
Marisha: How much money do we have?
Laura: We have --hold on, let me look.
Travis: Twenty-four thousand --
Laura: No. I normally don’t,
Laura: We have about 20,000, all right?
Orion: So we have 50,000 total. Because we just had 30, we just got paid 30 grand, right?
Matt: Yeah, ten.
Marisha: No.
Marisha: Ten grand.
Matt: You got ten grand from Allura and you currently have a floating --
Marisha: And she added that.
Orion: That’s added?
Laura: I already added that, we’re at 20,000.
Orion: I thought we were at 30 --
Marisha: We spent almost 50,000 dollars on our keep.
Orion: Right, but --
Travis: Plus those fucks in Kraghammer owe us a fortune.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah, 25,000 gold is still owed by Lord Nostoc Greyspine.
Orion: That’s who owed us.
Marisha: Yes, that’s what we’re saying.
Orion: What?
Marisha: That’s why we’re saying we only have 20 or 30 --
Taliesin: No, we haven’t gone back there.
Orion: So we’ll have to go back and get it.
Taliesin: Eventually, yeah.
Matt: "So while you --"
Laura: Will you point us a little bit out so we can see --
Matt: "As I was saying, this dagger, upon a very impactful wound on a foe, steals a bit of its life force, dealing an additional ten necrotic damage, and then gives the wielder ten temporary hitpoints."
Laura: Whoa, that’s major.
Matt: "So there’s that. We also have an enchanted heavy maul, and we have --this is quite a find here."
Matt: As she pulls out this wooden case, she pulls back the wooden top to it. As she does, you can see there’s a little bit of ice crystal that’s gathered along the interior of the wooden case. There inside sits a short sword, a relatively thick short blade, but the blade itself is like a blue, almost glimmering metal, and there’s actually a rising frozen mist that drifts off the blade.
Matt: "This is an enchanted frostbrand. It acts as a shortsword. Whenever it does damage to an enemy, it does an additional 1d6 cold damage. And while you hold the weapon you have resistance to any fire damage you would take. At freezing temperatures, it sheds a ten foot radius of dim light, and when you draw the weapon, you extinguish all magical flames within 30 feet of you."
Taliesin: Fancy.
Matt: "And those are currently all the things we have at the moment. We’re working on a few more things that will be ready in the next couple of weeks, but those are the current haul for our above-the-average consumer. Magical creations."
Ashley: I have a question.
Matt: "Yes."
Ashley: Do you have anything that can make armor... ... quieter? (all laugh)
Ashley: Maybe like a really heavy armor, that’s really quiet.
Liam: That oil from the Wizard of Oz.
Matt: "We don’t have anything for that, but we could have it commissioned for you if you’d like."
Ashley: I would like to see about that.
Matt: "All right. I’ll have to talk to Gilmore. That’s more in his realm of enchantment, but that is a possibility."
Matt: She adjusts her glasses again.
Matt: "When he returns, whenever that is, we can discuss with him what you’d like, yes."
Ashley: That would be great.
Matt: "All right, well."
Ashley: Thank you.
Orion: I will take the enchanted mithral shirt
Orion: I will take the enchanted mithral shirt and the cape, thank you very much.
Matt: "All right."
Matt: And she grabs the --
Orion: But that’s not the total yet. Vex has to talk about the rest of what we want.
Ashley: What’s the price on the dagger and the sword?
Matt: "The sword is 8500 gold pieces. The dagger is 7800 gold pieces. This is without your discount. The mithral chain shirt, it is medium armor, I lied. It is 5250 gold pieces."
Orion: Wait, I can’t --
Matt: You can’t wear armor.
Matt: "And you were looking at the pearl of power, which is 550 gold, and there is the cloak of displacement, which is 4500 gold pieces."
Travis: Would you be interested in a trade?
Matt: "What do you have to trade?"
Travis: We’ve got lots of bits from dragons, lots of bits from umber hulks, and we’ve got basilisk eggs.
Marisha: We also have that diamond and the ruby. Do we know how much that is?
Orion: Yes. Do we know how much that is?
Laura: We also have some jewels.
Marisha: I definitely say we pick up that ring with the AC and I wouldn’t mind having that leather --
Laura: The ring of protection?
Marisha: That ring of protection that gives you plus two to your AC. That we need for somebody. And I wouldn’t mind having that leather armor. That adds a plus two to my AC.
Matt: "Cold snap?"
Marisha: Yup.
Matt: "All right. There are the things we are looking at currently on this table, we have the belt of dwarvenkind, the manual of quickness of action --"
Marisha: We should get that too.
Matt: "--cold snap leather armor --"
Marisha: Get that manual.
Matt: "--cloak of displacement, ring of protection plus two --"
Ashley: Put the dagger and sword on the table also.
Ashley: Just in case.
Matt: "All right."
Ashley: Throwing it out there to see, I don’t know.
Matt: "They are there on the table."
Laura: We have nowhere near enough for all of this.
Laura: We have nowhere near enough for all of this.
Orion: Let’s see what the total is.
Marisha: We could trade,
Orion: Let’s see what the total is.
Marisha: Let’s see what we can trade around maybe.
Matt: "So the total for all of these items, including --"
Matt: She starts going through her --
Marisha: I want new stuff. I haven’t gotten new armor since we started.
Taliesin: I haven’t either.
Orion: You should get the mithral shirt, it adds something to your --
Marisha: Do you wear light armor or medium armor?
Taliesin: I would guess light armor, I imagine.
Matt: "With the discount, this entire haul would come to 49,815 gold pieces."
Ashley: What’s that, how much?
Marisha: 50k.
Matt: "49,815 gold pieces with your discount for this entire sum. Now, would you like to pay in gold? Would you like to pay in--"
Liam: Get the dragon armor out.
Orion: Twenty-four total, before the dwarven--
Ashley: Maybe we can see how much we can trade of what we have, maybe we can get a little--
Laura: How much is a pound of dragon scales worth to you?
Matt: "What dragon? Show me the scales."
Laura: Blue dragon scales.
Travis: Blue dragon scales, here you go.
Matt: You pull them out of the bag of holding. She takes a few and she takes her glasses off and then pulls out from a pocket this intricate-looking, multi-lensed tinkering viewing device and inspects it very closely.
Laura: It was a very powerful dragon.
Matt: "Apparently not powerful enough if you have these."
Travis: Hey Pike, don’t take this shit.
Marisha: I don’t know if that was a compliment or an insult.
Travis: Hey Pike, don’t take this shit.
Matt: Puts it away in her pocket and goes,
Marisha: Taking it as a compliment.
Matt: Puts it away in her pocket and goes,
Matt: "These are legitimate. I won’t question how you came about them, but they are definitely legitimate. A pound, you say?"
Laura: How much is a pound worth to you?
Travis: We have several pounds.
Laura: And I’ll tell you how much we have.
Laura: And I’ll tell you how much we have.
Matt: "Say a pound of dragon scales --"
Matt: And the dragon scales themselves are about that big each, they’re about the size of a peach.
Travis: Oh, shit.
Matt: Dragons are big, especially this one.
Matt: "Blue dragon scales, I’d say a pound is maybe, guessing close to eight to ten scales. That would be worth about, I’d put that at 1,000 gold credit for each pound provided."
Travis: I have at least 11 pounds.
Laura: Yeah.
Orion: Perfect.
Laura: So that’s another, at least, what? Eleven thousand?
Liam: Five hundred thousand gold right there.
Laura: That’s like another 10,000 we have in dragon scales.
Travis: We have 11 pounds of dragon scales.
Marisha: And how about that diamond that we put in the mending wheel?
Orion: No, ruby.
Laura: It’s flawless and beautiful and so sparkly.
Marisha: How much?
Matt: Pulls that again, looks over it.
Marisha: Catch.
Matt: "This ruby, probably about 500 gold pieces."
Laura: That’s it?
Travis: We also have three dragon teeth, fangs from the beast’s mouth.
Matt: Make a perception roll.
Orion: Oh sweet, and they froze there.
Matt: Or not that, a persuasion roll.
Orion: Oh no, they --
Marisha: Oh no, they didn’t!
Liam: I’m gonna tell them. Oh my gosh.
Marisha: Persuasion roll. Oh no!
Liam: You have to make a persuasion roll, quick.
Taliesin: That’s hilarious.
Matt: Timing is everything, folks. Timing is everything.
Taliesin: Timing is everything.
Ashley: I have one dragon fang around my neck.
Matt: That’s a keepsake for actually slaying a dragon. You’re welcome to trade that. It’s worth quite a bit.
Marisha: No.
Taliesin: No.
Ashley: That was the white dragon?
Matt: That was the white dragon.
Orion: Yeah, it was the white dragon you killed.
Matt: That’s the one that you got the final blow on.
Marisha: What was your persuasion?
Matt: That’s the one that you got the final blow on.
Taliesin: Not worth the memory of killing a white dragon.
Marisha: What was your persuasion?
Taliesin: Not worth the memory of killing a white dragon.
Ashley: I know, I gotta keep it.
Matt: Anyway.
Taliesin: Gotta keep it.
Ashley: Keepsake, can’t put a price on it.
Liam: Ten. Ten, they rolled a ten.
Matt: They rolled a ten. She says,
Matt: "Dragons’ teeth actually, strangely enough, are a little easier to find. I would put, each dragon’s tooth available would probably add about 250 gold pieces to the exchange."
Travis: We’ve got three.
Marisha: And how about the basilisk eggs? While we’re --
Liam: Get it out out.
Marisha: --cleaning our bag out, exactly.
Travis: We have two basilisk eggs we’re willing to part with.
Matt: As you pull out the basilisk eggs, you pull it out and immediately there is a stench that is emanating from these eggs that have been in your bag of holding for probably close to eight or nine months.
Travis: No, the smell means they’re good.
Matt: This is now the fourth time she’s looked at you with a deadpan glance and adjusted her glasses.
Matt: "We’re not interested in the eggs, but thank you anyway."
Travis: All right, we do have three pints of dragon’s blood.
Laura: This is super, super powerful.
Travis: It might’ve congealed a little bit actually, though.
Ashley: No, it’s absolutely just really fresh because we put it in Tupperware.
Matt: "We’ll stick with the scales for now." put it in Tupperware.
Laura: You’ll stick with the scales.
Travis: Right, any chance you’d be interested in claws of an umber hulk?
Liam: I like that the 400,000 people who saw that thing are tuning in to the shopping episode.
Taliesin: To the shopping episode! are tuning in to the shopping episode.
Marisha: To the shopping episode! are tuning in to the shopping episode.
Orion: Hi everybody.
Liam: We’ve been fighting and killing for weeks,
Liam: We’ve been fighting and killing for weeks, and now we’re haggling over prices.
Orion: But we do need new gear.
Matt: Timing is everything.
Marisha: We do need new gear.
Matt: This has now turned into the flea-market episode. Hey, you guys guide the story. It’s fun though.
Marisha: You guys guide the story. Hey, you guys guide the story. It’s fun though.
Matt: "We’d say with the credit from the dragon scales, that’ll take 10,000, 11,000 away from the current pricing, that would put us at 39,815 for this batch."
Marisha: So can we open that line of credit we were talking about?
Matt: "What line of credit?"
Marisha: That line we’re talking about right now. (all laugh)
Orion: Well said, your majesty.
Marisha: That one that I just said two seconds ago?
Liam: Wait, DM, where am I with Gilmore?
Matt: We’ll get to that right now.
Orion: It takes time to make a --
Laura: We could advertise for Gilmore.
Marisha: Yeah.
Ashley: We could advertise, but maybe we should wait until they get back so if their walk goes really well, whatever that means, we could maybe try to strike a deal.
Marisha: Right, put this on layaway?
Laura: He’ll probably give us everything for free.
Ashley: Because we probably need to talk to Gilmore about the credit.
Orion: True.
Taliesin: Yes, that’s fair.
Marisha: So can we hold this for now?
Ashley: We’ll wait until Gilmore gets back.
Matt: "Certainly."
Ashley: We’ll wait until Gilmore gets back.
Marisha: Oh, good.
Matt: "If you wish."
Matt: Starts putting everything into a small layaway pile in the corner.
Marisha: So you guys. Natural history museum? Pizza and then natural history museum?
Orion: What is pizza?
Matt: In the meantime.
Orion: It sounds wonderful.
Marisha: We’ve got time, we’ve gotta wait for their man-date, we can go see some sights.
Matt: In the meantime. for their man-date, we can go see some sights.
Liam: In-between time.
Matt: Vax.
Liam: In-between time.
Matt: Yes. Gilmore, who has sweeped you out into the middle of Abedar’s Promenade, takes you by the arm and begins to lead you happily up towards the Erudite Quarter of Emon, which has a secondary wall around it as well. As he brings you along, he talks happily and loudly about how,
Matt: "It’s rather wonderful the way that we were presented with this opportunity over in Westruun. It’s magnificent, the team they’ve assembled to build this brand. I’m very excited at how they brought it to my attention. I wanted to keep things very localized, of course, but it seems--"
Liam: Will you trust the folk in Emon to handle your business or will you go between?
Matt: "The folk in Westruun?"
Liam: Yes.
Matt: "The folk in Westruun?"
Matt: "I have a couple of friends there that will oversee the process, but I will be very involved and keeping an eye, so I’m not too terribly worried. Besides, it’s a much smaller business we’re running there and it’ll be fine. Oh, look ahead."
Matt: As you guys step into the Erudite Quarter, he’s now brought you into essentially what is an outdoor botanical garden that is just a very nice walk. Grass across the ground, with fine well-cut bushes. There is a canopy of beautiful trees that are arcane, through arcane means, twisted and sculpted to form this long tunnel. It’s strangely romantic. As Gilmore begins to walk you down, there’s a fountain to the side, and he says,
Matt: "What about you? How’s Vox Machina been? How’ve they been treating you? How are you, Vax?"
Liam: Well, we’re tired, to be sure. I was not kidding before, we really are lucky to be alive. And that’s thanks in large part to a lot of the gear you outfitted us with the last time.
Matt: "Wondrous, I’m happy to help. And have you been keeping up your end of the bargain? Have you been singing the praises of Gilmore’s Glorious Goods across Kraghammer and beyond?"
Liam: You were mentioned in Kraghammer. I regret to inform you, though, that we were forced to travel underground rather quickly and the duergar and the other things that we ran into were not really customers you’d want to deal with. No, our lives were too much in harm’s way. But now that we’re above ground, I’m looking to pick up where I left off.
Matt: "Very well." And do your shop honor.
Liam: Your contribution to what we’ve done --
Liam: And I place my hand on his hand.
Liam: --was no small part in our survival.
Liam: And I give it just a little squeeze.
Liam: And I want to thank you. I don’t know that I would be standing here if not for your help.
Matt: "Had it not been for Gilmore’s Glorious Goods." (all laugh)
Matt: He looks you deep in the eyes, pats the top of your hand, and goes,
Matt: "Vax. This, that moment, that is why I do what I do."
Liam: You’re a unique man, Gilmore. No question. Never met anyone quite like you.
Matt: "Well. Would you care to share a glass of wine with a man not quite like anyone else you’ve met?"
Liam: Indeed. What do you recommend in the area?
Matt: "Oh, please, come, there are casks that pour the finest of honeyed Syngoran wine. I know perhaps you’ve not been home for quite some time?"
Liam: That’s a complicated thing for me, one that I’m not really quite ready to talk about yet.
Matt: "Oh."
Liam: Maybe someday.
Matt: "Maybe with enough wine."
Liam: You old so-and-so.
Marisha: You old so-and-so.
Matt: About an hour and a half, time passes before eventually there’s a loud clattering at the front of Gilmore’s Glorious Goods, where a laughing Vax and Gilmore come stumbling in, flush of face, with emptied goblets, laughing to themselves. Is there anything specific before this moment that you wanted to ask --
Liam: I took the duergar, I was holding her right over the cliff, and I just cut, and she fell! She fell! I didn’t know what I was doing, I just did it!
Matt: "You are ridiculous, Vax'ildan! Oh, it tickles me."
Ashley: Hi! Hello!
Matt: "Oh, good to see your friends."
Ashley: Sounds like you had fun.
Liam: Family. Family, family. I’ve had a couple of drinks. I’m an adult, I can do that.
Liam: What have you found? Have you guys been shopping?
Marisha: Well, we have!
Orion: Yes!
Marisha: Well, we have!
Marisha: We were hoping that you and Gilmore had a wonderful time and that, we just thought we’d wait for you. We didn’t want to make any final decisions without one of our main party members.
Matt: "It was delightful. You travel with the finest companion. We told stories, we cried, we laughed. It was a delight."
Matt: "I’ve had a few."
Matt: He collects himself for a minute.
Liam: I pat him on the back, I do a little circle with my hand.
Marisha: Remember, you have advantage.
Matt: "I’m not as spry as I once was, unfortunately. But yes! Business to attend. What do you need? What can we do?"
Matt: At which point Sherri, waiting in the back, says,
Matt: "Sir, they’ve requested perhaps a few things in bulk. The current amount comes to about roughly 40,000 gold, with your discount."
Matt: "Forty thousand gold, oh, well. Certainly. What seems to be the problem?"
Ashley: Well, I don’t know. We were just talking about, since we’re purchasing so many things, and since we’ve gained some popularity here in Emon, walking around, people are noticing us walking around...
Ashley: I shouldn’t be the one talking right now.
Ashley: Maybe we could open up a line of credit.
Liam: Obviously we’re only shopping with you, Gilmore, at this point.
Matt: He looks about the rest of the group and says,
Matt: "Not everyone seems to be wearing the same patented Gilmore’s Glorious Armor that was given not too long ago. So that’s not true."
Orion: We did find some off of dead things.
Liam: Yes.
Matt: "And those dead things are not under the umbrella of Gilmore’s Glorious Expansion."
Orion: Oh.
Matt: "But should we discuss this, where would this credit be placed against, what do you have that you could ante?"
Liam: What have you guys been talking about? We do have a big pile of dragon’s scales and some gem --
Laura: We do.
Taliesin: We also are owed money.
Liam: And we are owed money in Kraghammer.
Laura: One question that
Liam: And we are owed money in Kraghammer. Grog just whispered to me.
Liam: Yes?
Laura: How much is a platinum worth?
Matt: "What is a platinum? Platinum is worth ten gold pieces."
Liam: Where we at, girl?
Orion: She is displeased.
Laura: We may have a lot more money than I thought we had, because Grog’s been hiding money in the bag of holding. (all laugh)
Travis: It’s really shiny.
Travis: I’m in trouble, Matt. She’s really mad.
Marisha: Wait, is this like when you slapped Trinket on the ass mad?
Laura: No. Not close, not even close. Doesn’t mean as much as Trinket means.
Liam: This is finances, this sounds like a married couple.
Taliesin: How much platinum do we have hiding in the bag of holding?
Travis: I don’t have the number in front of me, but it’s at least 150.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Where did we procure that again, Grog? I’m sorry, I’m a little fershnickered.
Travis: I don’t remember, but it’s in the bag of holding.
Laura: I remember getting platinum.
Marisha: I do remember getting platinum, too.
Matt: But you don’t have a number.
Travis: No, I know it’s at least 100, at least 150, I think it’s somewhere up north of 150, I just can’t remember the number.
Liam: Did we get that from the dragon, where did we get that?
Matt: It was a combination of the dragon, the horde you rage-looted --
Laura: Rage-hoarding. the horde you rage-looted --
Laura: Rage-looting.
Liam: I’ll never forget the rage-looting.
Ashley: Rage-looting.
Liam: I’ll never forget the rage-looting.
Travis: It’s my shiny, though, I didn’t want to give it to her, though. She’s evil. You see how she haggles!
Liam: It’s true. She’s my sister, I know, Grog. But right now we need to put that aside and do what’s best for the party.
Travis: Well, we could buy a party with all that. (all laugh)
Liam: Not that kind of party, Grog.
Laura: I think we have enough to buy everything if you guys want.
Liam: Grog, money is meant to be spent.
Travis: I’m going to drink! (all laugh)
Ashley: That solves everything.
Matt: Scanlan goes,
Sam: I agree. Drinks and whoring.
Matt: And smacks Grog in the side. The two of them leave off into the evening to go ahead and make use of their return to Emon properly.
Liam: Vax looks at Gilmore and just shakes his head.
Matt: "There is business to be had, but let’s get business out of the way so we can get to pleasure."
Ashley: Oh, shit.
Liam: Cheers to that.
Marisha: Cheers to that.
Taliesin: I have tinkering to do anyway.
Laura: What did we agree the total for everything we wanted was?
Matt: "Roughly 39,500 gold pieces."
Liam: Pish-posh.
Laura: Roughly. Gilmore.
Matt: "That’s with the discount! I already offered this to you, and you haven’t even kept up your end of the bargain by wearing my emblazoned symbol and my"
Laura: Don’t you want us to advertise in Westruun for you? "immortalized Gilmore’s Glorious Armor."
Liam: We would, Gilmore, we would be wearing that. Again, we nearly died. The armor that you gave me is gone, and I’m lucky to be alive today, and that armor helped me be where I am at the moment.
Matt: "How much credit do you wish to open?"
Liam: Fifty gold.
Ashley: Thousand? Fifty thousand?
Liam: Fifty, ah yes. Fifty thousand.
Matt: "Because 50 gold I can definitely do."
Liam: We’ve been out drinking for two hours, man.
Matt: "This is true. I’m sorry."
Ashley: One million, please.
Matt: "That’s a tough order."
Matt: "You mentioned you had money waiting for you in Kraghammer. How much was --"
Laura: Yes, we do.
Matt: "How much is waiting for you there?"
Liam: Twenty-five, wasn’t it?
Laura: It was 25,000.
Matt: "How about we open a 25,000 gold piece line of credit here with Gilmore’s Glorious Goods that you only need to pay back within the next month."
Liam: That’s fair.
Matt: "Giving you time to arrive. If it’s not paid, you will be hunted. But I’m sure that won’t be a worry, will it?"
Orion: How far is Kraghammer from here?
Taliesin: Not far.
Laura: It’s a week’s ride, isn’t it?
Orion: I can’t teleport everyone.
Marisha: Gilmore, question. Maybe you should consider making little pins that we could just wear on top of our armor? Because wearing your armor, we have our own clothes that we like, so maybe like a pin.
Matt: He steps forward and says,
Matt: "Oh --"
Marisha: Or like a patch?
Matt: "--that’s not even a worry."
Matt: He pulls out a small implement, this wand, and he flicks it over your shoulder. And all of a sudden an arcane swirl around your armor, with a big flash of sparks and glitter almost. You look down and there is, emblazoned upon your current armored form, a symbol of Gilmore’s Glorious Goods now permanently emblazoned on the leather.
Marisha: Ah!
Matt: "Easy enough to fix."
Liam: What a good idea.
Marisha: I was going to put it on that leather.
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: I was going to put it on that leather.
Marisha: I was going to put it on that leather. My mom gave this to me.
Matt: "Well, your mother has not provided for you the means of keeping the deal we already made."
Marisha: Can you take this off when we pay you back and put it on that one?
Marisha: Oh, come on.
Taliesin: I think it’ll transfer when you change.
Marisha: Will it transfer when I change armor?
Matt: "I don’t know." (all laugh)
Ashley: We’ll find out.
Matt: "So. Twenty-five thousand gold line of credit, within a month or you’ll be hunted."
Marisha: Wait, do you really have a unicorn as part of your logo?
Matt: "It’s…"
Marisha: What?
Matt: "It’s a creature of my creation, I designed it when I was a child --"
Liam: It’s a phallic thing.
Marisha: Ah.
Laura: So we open the 25,000 line of credit with you and you give us all the things we want?
Matt: "If that is what you want."
Liam: Don’t we have a lot of platinum? What are we dickering prices with?
Laura: Yes! Why don’t we just buy it now, and then we won’t have a line of credit with Gilmore?
Travis: (cries) and then we won’t have a line of credit with Gilmore?
Liam: Yes, we’ll use some of the platinum. One platinum is equal to ten gold. Sorry, Gilmore. Trying to dicker over rates.
Ashley: Not a line of credit?
Liam: No line of credit, we’ll pay for it outright in cold hard platinum.
Matt: You don’t have the amount of platinum with you.
Liam: But Grog’s got it.
Matt: Grog said, because he doesn’t have it in front of him, he has around 150 platinum.
Laura: We can pay him back, it’s true.
Matt: That’s roughly 1500 gold.
Matt: That’s roughly 1500 gold.
Liam: But where is it?
Matt: It’s in the bag of holding, but he doesn’t have the bag of holding information in front of him.
Liam: He doesn’t have the info. And because he doesn’t have the sheet --
Taliesin: --next game.
Liam: --and he can’t read the exact amount?
Matt: Yup. Because he said in memory it’s 150 platinum. That’s only --
Liam: I thought it was a 100,000.
Matt: Oh, no.
Laura: No no no, 150 platinum.
Liam: Oh, 150.
Matt: Hundred thousand you’d be the richest man in the fucking world.
Liam: Okay. in the fucking world.
Matt: So 150 platinum --
Liam: What do you think, sis?
Matt: --based on memory is 11,500,
Liam: Vox Machina treasurer?
Matt: which is a little helpful.
Laura: Right.
Liam: What do you think?
Laura: That would put us at about 30,000 that we have to spend left, which the signal cut out so it doesn’t matter.
Matt: No, we’ve got you.
Marisha: No, we can hear you!
Liam: No, we’ve got you.
Marisha: No, we can hear you!
Laura: Okay.
Liam: So the total tab is what again, Gilmore?
Laura: How much do we have? He does have a picture of it. We have 1,620 platinum.
Marisha: What!
Matt: Is that right? There you go.
Orion: So that’s like--
Matt: 16,000 gold pieces.
Liam: All right. Spend it.
Liam: Spend it.
Marisha: All right. No!
Ashley: So we don’t need to open up a line of credit?
Liam: No.
Matt: Ten gold per platinum.
Orion: We have 1,000.
Matt: A thousand platinum. One thousand six hundred platinum. Move the decimal point. That brings it to 16,000 gold pieces.
Orion: Move two on that.
Matt: No, it’s not 100 gold per platinum, ten gold per platinum.
Matt: I’ve been saying ten gold per platinum this whole time, guys.
Taliesin: No, I’m with you.
Orion: I get it.
Liam: We’re losing our audience. Ring it up.
Matt: We’re getting into math in this.
Marisha: Our charity, 826LA, after-school tutoring.
Taliesin: It could’ve made this all go so much better.
Marisha: Really good to have,
Taliesin: It could’ve made this all go so much better.
Marisha: Your reading and your writing and your arithmetic.
Taliesin: For players who can read good.
Marisha: For players who can read good.
Liam: Ring it up, we’ll take it.
Ashley: We’ll take it all.
Liam: The whole lot.
Ashley: And then, could I commission you, by the way, to maybe make some armor that’s really heavy armor but very quiet?
Matt: "How heavy?"
Ashley: How heavy can you make it?
Matt: "I can work on plate armor if you’d like, but an enchantment of that magnitude would be the only enchantment it would have. So it would be the equivalent of full plate armor and the entire enchantment would enable you to move a little more easily inside it, and that would cost, it would take about, I'd say, a month to enchant on my end and would cost about, not including the cost of the actual armor, materials and time required, I’d put it at about 8,000 gold pieces?"
Liam: Worth it.
Liam: We’ll fund the money.
Ashley: And it’ll just be really quiet?
Matt: "It will enable you to move freer within the armor."
Liam: By a turn. Is 8,000 Vox Machina’s rate, or the general rate?
Matt: "That is through our friendship and our current arrangement."
Liam: Thank you. It’s appreciated.
Matt: "Mm."
Matt: "Business is business, but please don’t take this solemn,"
Liam: Of course. "but please don’t take this solemn, intense face to be anything other than friendship, this is just business and I run a business."
Liam: Understood.
Matt: "Good."
Liam: I’m not taking advantage.
Matt: "All right."
Matt: "So. To take all of these items, with the dragon scales included, bringing it down to 39,000 gold. We’ll call it even, 39,000 gold."
Taliesin: Fair.
Laura: That wasn’t much of a discount, Gilmore.
Liam: Hush up, Vex’ahlia.
Liam: Done, sold, thank you.
Liam: With our thanks.
Matt: "So minus the platinum, that’s 22,000 gold pieces after the platinum and dragon scales."
Marisha: And we have that, right?
Matt: "And you have 25,000 gold credit if you’d like."
Laura: We have, hold on... gotta go away for a minute.
Liam: We’re passing on the credit, Gilmore.
Laura: We have plenty left.
Liam: Yes.
Taliesin: All right.
Liam: You guys are a black screen, what happened?
Taliesin: They paused it.
Laura: I was looking at my calculator.
Liam: All right, we hear you. There you are!
Orion: Abacus!
Liam: You’re so dark sometimes, Vex’ahlia. I swear.
Laura: So the total was 20,000 minus the platinum and the dragon scales?
Matt: "Twenty-two thousand."
Laura: Yes, we still have enough, so.
Matt: "All right. So a deal?"
Marisha: Deal!
Taliesin: Deal.
Laura: My god, all of our money’s gone.
Matt: He snaps his fingers, Sherri comes and presents all the items that she had currently in a little stowaway bin off to the side of the desk. Brings them out to the rest of you and places it on the counter. Gilmore immediately snaps his fingers and a contract shows up. He writes up the numbers exchanged, making note of his business, passes it out.
Matt: "Please sign here. Anyone that represents you and your fine Vox Machina. Sign here and present the money."
Laura: I guess I’ll do that.
Taliesin: You do that.
Matt: "Vex’ahlia."
Matt: He hands you a quill. Takes your coin, slides you, and you now have this entire batch of magical items
Laura: That’s pretty cool.
Matt: to distribute as you see fit.
Matt: to distribute as you see fit.
Marisha: Yes! New armor!
Matt: And from that point --
Laura: Make sure we get some of those things.
Matt: "An absolute pleasure doing business with all of you. Absolutely."
Marisha: Thank you, Gilmore.
Matt: "Thank you."
Marisha: So really though. Will this transfer to that?
Matt: "I have no idea."
Marisha: I was wanting to ask you, Gilmore. Have you considered maybe doing potion-making workshops?
Matt: "Hm. I’ll put some thought to that."
Marisha: Okay. Let me know.
Matt: "All right."
Laura: I feel very uncomfortable and I leave. I go outside to hang out with Trinket.
Matt: Okay.
Matt: As Gilmore takes the change behind the counter, he goes,
Matt: "I’ve got a bit more business to do here. Vax, I greatly appreciate spending the afternoon with you. Where are you staying?"
Liam: I take him by the hand, do one of these clasps, and say,
Liam: We live here now, we’re residents. I haven’t had time to tell you. We have a keep, our own keep. You should come visit. It’s on the outskirts of town. It’s called Greyskull Keep, and you’re welcome any time. Day or night.
Matt: "Good to know. All right. To business I go. I bid you all a fine farewell."
Taliesin: Adieu.
Marisha: Bye, Gilmore.
Matt: He goes back through his beaded exit to the back room and leaves you to the rest of your-- --at which point Sherri goes,
Matt: "I’ll get back to work."
Matt: She goes back up, leaving you guys alone in the main chamber as a couple of other customers start walking around.
Matt: I think we’ll call that the adventure for the evening.
Marisha: Thanks for watching us shop.
Ashley: Thanks for watching us shop!
Laura: All the money’s gone!
Matt: All the money’s gone. You spent it, guys.
Marisha: We have 25 waiting for us in Kraghammer.
Matt: That’s true, you didn’t open the line of credit.
Laura: Yeah, we’d better get that.
Marisha: At least we’re not in debt.
Liam: The world is full of money, Vex'halia.
Travis: We got more money?
Ashley: Who had dibs on what?
Taliesin: I wanted the dexterity boost and I was thinking of the mithral.
Marisha: And I want the leather armor and he wants the cape.
Ashley: I can't use the sword, right? The frostband sword?
Liam: No, clerics can't use swords.
Matt: Check on your class, you might have access to it. Let me check here for you real fast.
Liam: It used to be just blunt weapons for clerics, wasn't it?
Matt: That's the older version, they've changed a few things. They don't do it too often. Let me double-check. Cleric has access to all simple weapons. The sword is a martial weapon so you cannot use that as a weapon.
Ashley: That's okay.
Zac: Oh man. These donations tonight, guys.
Matt: That's great. I'm glad you guys are enjoying watching our--
Laura: Me and Travis are going to cut out.
Matt: -- Laura and Travis are taking off, guys.
Marisha: Bye guys, have fun in Florida!
Liam: We were so glad to have you, sister!
Laura: We were so glad to be here.
Marisha: What con are you guys at?
Laura: We're at MetroCon, down in Tampa.
Matt: MetroCon in Tampa. So if you guys want to go see Vex and Grog in person and you're in the Florida/Tampa area, go to MetroCon this weekend and say hi.
Laura: Let's see how tired we are tomorrow.
Marisha: MetroCon in Tampa.
Liam: Worth it.
Matt: Thank you guys.
Marisha: Have fun!
Matt: Thanks again for the chat that bought us dinner tonight, it was amazing and delicious. Thank you so much guys, you're amazing every week. So we're going to go to donations.
Zac: Let's get through these.
Matt: Yeah, all right. Thank you guys again for -- Once again, this was the recovery episode of a long, twelve-week battle through the underdark. This was interesting to come back to, I hope you enjoyed it. All right, so first, donations.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to this evening's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy voice actors sit around a table and play Dungeons & Dragons. If you are returning, welcome back. For those who it's their first time watching us live on the stream, welcome to the chaos. So, before I begin, a couple of quick notifications I want to give you guys. We had our first subscriber giveaway hit before the show started at 4,200. It was LL1973. Turn the mic around. Oh, now you can hear me. Look at this! The magic of live. Live communication. You have a wonderful view of this fantastic midsection. It's delightful. There we go. Is that better?
Zac: Yep.
Matt: Velcome. So, welcome to Critical Role, for those who didn't hear me before. D&D, voice actors, you know the drill now. So our first giveaway already happened tonight for the subscriber count at 4,200 to LL1973. Congratulations. You're going to be winning a signed Player's Handbook of Dungeons & Dragons Fifth Edition, as well as a signed photo of the Critical Role cast. Our next one will be at 4,250, so, up to every fifty subscribers after that we will be giving away an additional Player's Handbook and photo signed by the cast. Awesome times. (cheering)
Marisha: Awesome times?
Matt: Indeed, very awesome times.
Marisha: Good times, good time together.
Matt: I think so, indeed. Also, as a heads-up to you guys, there will be no Critical Role next week because the San Diego Comic-Con is happening. Down in San Diego.
Marisha: We're doing a panel, aren't we?
Matt: I know, we have a panel, though. We have a panel Thursday, I'll be on the main Geek and Sundry panel with Laura at 1-2 and then we have our actual full Critical Role panel from 4-5. So if you are going to be there, come see us at PetCo Park on Thursday.
Laura: You don't need a badge.
Matt: Nope, you can just come and walk on in.
Marisha: Yeah, it is at PetCo Park, so don't get lost looking around the convention center. Because it won't be there. It's at PetCo Park.
Matt: It's the big sports stadium, which to me is a wonderful irony of us giving a panel about Dungeons & Dragons in the center of a giant sports stadium. That's right! Indoor kids. However, however, they are also filming the panel for those who can't be there. The panel will be on the stream the following day, I believe, so check it out there, after, with the rest of the Comic-Con stream coverage. It'll be fun. Yeah, so that'll be good. The week after that, me and Marisha are going to be out of town in New Zealand, so this means a two-week period without Critical Role main-story stuff, and I apologize, this is all stuff that got planned before the stream even started. We'll be at a convention in New Zealand. For those out there planning to come to Armageddon, please come see us, we'll be down there. It'll be fun for all New Zealand fans. Otherwise, the rest of the Critical Role cast that are available will be here and will play some other sort of game together and generally interact with the chat and have a good time until we return. So.
Marisha: We're working it out.
Matt: Yeah, we're getting the circumstance ironed out.
Marisha: Hi, Liam!
Orion: Hi, Liam!
Matt: We have Liam on Skype over here.
Liam: Hi, guys.
Matt: What's up, buddy?
Liam: Hi!
Matt: Liam, who's finishing up his vacation as well. As far as I understand, we have a--
Marisha: How's New Jersey?
Liam: I am deep in upstate New York on the Canadian border.
Matt: Slowly migrating into expatriotism. Don't go Canadian on us.
Liam: It's frightening to drive here at night. I can't wait to do it at two in the morning.
Laura: Yay.
Matt: Yes.
Ashley: I'm drinking out of your mug.
Matt: She is.
Liam: My mug? Here's mine.
Matt: On river time, there you go.
Marisha: On river time, what?
Matt: That is-- that's a mug.
Marisha: Did you instantly turn into a 64-year-old golfer as soon as you went there?
Liam: I'm on a river. I'm on a river.
Laura: I'm on a boat. I'm on a boat.
Matt: So that's going on. Other things we want to mention. We'll have a special presentation at the break today. We're taking a break from the 826LA charity for another special charity that has been running for the past week known as GameChanger: it's a cancer charity and it's been working in conjunction with SquareEnix this past week. To raise money for cancer research, they've been doing-- if you donate $1 to it they're giving away codes for the first Deus Ex game for PC and a lot of other fun stuff. We'll have more information and a presentation for you at the break. So be aware that's the fun charity we're promoting tonight, so if anyone has the ability to give, please do, they're an awesome charity. We're also waiting on Sam Riegel and Taliesin Jaffe, they're both fighting traffic but will be here shortly. However, let's go ahead and cut to the intro to give us a one-minute break, and then we'll jump right into this crazy, crazy episode. So see you in just a moment. [no audio] Well, while we get that figured out--
Orion: Oh, is this a podcast now?
Matt: Apparently.
Orion: (old-timey voice) Old time radio.
Marisha: Well, I think the intro--
Matt: Intro video's frozen.
Orion: Damn it.
Matt: Also, this is, as opposed to making it a surprise, this'll be our last game for a little while with--
Laura: No, don't say it, don't say it yet.
Matt: Don't say it-- okay.
Travis: If you say it, it makes it true.
Marisha: Makes it too real.
Matt: Okay, you're right.
Orion: Ooh.
Matt: I'll hold off, all right.
Liam: Unfortunately, Travis has to leave the show.
Matt: No, that's not true. Grog's ale still needs to be filled.
Travis: Smash.
Matt: Indeed. So we'll patiently wait, folks, pizza at the ready. Now.
Marisha: What's going on?
Liam: Is there a full table behind this computer?
Laura: Pretty much.
Matt: There is, yes.
Laura: Travis is directly behind you.
Liam: Am I in his chest again?
Laura: Yeah, you might be even in his face at this point.
Orion: It's pretty good, though, I like this better than the iPad.
Marisha: And we can see you more.
Laura: Can you still see Travis?
Marisha: Yeah.
Orion: Yeah.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: It'll be fine.
Orion: How can we not see him?
Marisha: Yeah. (laughs)
Laura: That's true.
Orion: He's a mountain of man.
Travis: I am Rushmore.
Marisha: Travis takes up this side of the frame.
Orion: I'm Rushmore.
Matt: If we're having an issue with the intro video, do you want to just go to the game?
Travis: We can do a live intro video.
All: (intro video music)
Matt: Grog! Goliath Barbarian.
Marisha: (crow sound) (laughter)
Matt: -- and we're done.
Travis: I'd been thinking that this had to happen at some point.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Boomf! I was being you, Tiberius.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: We could totally do a Brady Bunch.
Marisha: Ah ha!
Laura: Light!
Matt: That was pretty good.
Travis: You guys are on the bottom of the feed, right?
Orion: Right.
Travis: So if you looked up and we looked down, we'd essentially be looking at each other.
Marisha: Oh right, Brady Bunch style!
Laura: (gasps) Oh, no way.
Travis: Oh, hi guys.
Marisha: Hi, Travis.
Orion: Is that how it looks?
Travis: And then everyone looks to the right to look at Mercer.
Laura: No, yeah, everyone looks to the same--
Travis: Oh, we look right, you look left.
Travis: No.
Matt: No.
Matt: They look right. Everyone looks right.
Marisha: Everyone looks right? So if we're looking this way, "Hi, Matt!"
Matt: And I disapprovingly look to my left. There you go.
Ashley: Are we still on?
Marisha: Yeah.
Ashley: Still going?
Matt: Real-time Critical Role.
Marisha: We're still kind of confused.
Laura: I can't tell what happening.
Matt: So I figure if the intro video's not working, let's not worry about it. Let's just jump into the game and get this started. How about that?
Travis: Yeah, why not.
Matt: Cool with that?
Ashley: Wait, can we show someone that's here that's really cool?
Matt: What's up?
Marisha: Go ahead and bring him on?
Matt: Oh, well, we're waiting on the break, unless you want to do it now.
Ashley: Do it on the break.
Orion: So we have video problems?
Marisha: You can come say hi.
Orion: I'm Periscope-ing until we're not having video issues.
Matt: Well, as far as I know we're on camera.
Orion: Oh, we are?
Crew: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah, just the intro video's not working.
Orion: Okay.
Marisha: Oh, we probably could have been going for a while. We've just been like dicking around.
Orion: Bye, guys, we're live.
Matt: Ah, welcome to the chaos of live internet. All right, so let's--
Liam: I don't think we should go any more meta than it has to be.
Matt: Let's jump in, guys. Let's jump in. So a little bit of overview for those of you who are just joining us. At this point in the story, Vox Machina, this intrepid band of adventurers, misfits, whatever you must call them, completed an adventure through the Underdark, a very dangerous, cavernous--
Laura: Oh, Sam's here.
Matt: Oh, we're gonna let Sam in.
Marisha: Sam's here!
Orion: Yeah, he texted.
Matt: All right, so after completing this Underdark challenge, they discovered and managed to extract an evil artifact known as the Horn of Orcus that held great power and seemingly has a partner somewhere in the world that is unknown. But the one they have acquired is indestructible, as far as folks know, and it was decided by the Council of Tal'Dorei and Vox Machina that it should be sealed away and hopefully forgotten for the rest of eternity. The best place to do so came up in the conversation to be the city of Vasselheim, which is on a different continent far to the northwest of Tal'Dorei, the kingdom where most of the story as to this point has taken place, to be sealed in what is referred to as the Platinum Sanctuary, the oldest existing temple to Bahamut, the good platinum dragon deity. So they were given passage on a skyship to cross the Ozmit Sea to Othanzia, the continent that houses the capital city, Vasselheim. So the group gathered together, rode on to the magically elevated skyship, and are traversing the ocean carrying the Horn of Orcus within this holy container. Hello!
Marisha: Hi, Sam.
Matt: Sam has joined us.
Sam: Hi!
Matt: They found themselves over the ocean, suddenly attacked by a band of what seemed to be wyvern- and griffin-riding bandits. The battle took place on the top of the skyship, some of the magic being taken out, a few lives lost, but the party managed to persevere, take a captive, and continue on their journey, the Horn of Orcus and its container kept safe. And that's where we pick up and begin.
Sam: Can you say all of that again for me? (laughter)
Travis: You don't listen, anyway.
Matt: No.
Marisha: (laughs) You don't listen, anyway.
Matt: All righty, so as you guys have settled in, the Horn safe, you've taken a couple more days on this journey, what was told to be about a six-day journey across the ocean, six to seven days. Is there anything you guys wish to accomplish at this moment?
Sam: Are we in the air?
Matt: You are still in the air on the skyship.
Sam: Not much we can do.
Marisha: Well, we just-- so we fought off the wyverns.
Sam: Oh, do we have one? We have one.
Travis: Is the little magician halfling still being polite and brushing her teeth and stuff?
Laura: Oh, that's right, our little halfling that we--
Travis: Who you saved. Wuss.
Matt: Yes.
Sam: She's a mage, right?
Matt: That you saved. She is a mage, and she has also been bound, at the orders of the captain, so as not to cause any issues on the ship while she's there. So as to her future, after your conversation with him, as to whether or not she could work on this ship, based on the fact that their first meeting involved her and her band attacking and trying to murder his entire crew, Captain Damon was not too keen on the idea at the time being and decided to lock her up.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: So. We shall see her fate in the near future.
Travis: She's locked up.
Laura: Okay. She's locked up.
Travis: She's got tricks, though, right?
Matt: She has tricks, but there is an anti-magic brig built into the ship specifically for this purpose.
Sam: Ooh. Fancy.
Travis: That's all I needed to know.
Laura: Oh, that's good to know. I was going to pay you to put the kibosh on her.
Orion: She's negged.
Travis: Cool.
Matt: (laughs) So. I'll say that Percy is continuing to read his book. The next few days pass without incident. Is there anything you want to accomplish? Anything?
Orion: You said the next few days without incident? Cool.
Travis: Could I try to further my beard?
Sam: Oh, yes! Try to grow a beard.
Marisha: Yeah, his beard. Let's go for the beard.
Matt: Go ahead and roll another percentage dice.
Travis: Yeah! It's a d20, right?
Laura: It's a percentage die.
Travis: Oh, that's right, that's right. The two in a row. I remember.
Matt: Two d10s.
Travis: I'm learning. I'm learning.
Marisha: Yep.
Matt: First one and the second one.
Travis: Three. Eight.
Matt: 38. The little bit of peach-fuzz stubble on the chin of your goliath face begins to slowly grow. It's coming out colorless. It's almost translucent with a hint of gray and white.
Sam: Ew.
Laura: Ew.
Travis: I'm a Targaryen, baby. (laughter)
Liam: That's hot.
Laura: It's translucent, like--
Matt: A color is there. It's almost like fishing line is growing out of the bottom of his chin.
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Ugh.
Ashley: Whoa.
Travis: Don't be jealous.
Ashley: Grog, it's sparkling. It's sparkling!
Laura: It's really creepy, Grog.
Ashley: Hey, I feel it. It's like sandpaper, a little bit.
Travis: Thank you. Thank you.
Matt: Keep in mind, goliaths, predominantly-- especially pureblood goliaths-- do not grow facial hair. The fact that this magical feat is even achieving any modicum of growth is in itself an arcane marvel, and who knows what detrimental effects this may have in the long run, going against your physiology.
Travis: Oh, crap. It's all right. It'll make me look really wise, you guys. Nobody will know.
Marisha: I have some beads. If you want, we can braid it and put beads in there.
Laura: Ooh.
Travis: I'm all about it. Beads and bells and shit?
Marisha: Okay!
Marisha: I braid Grog's beard.
Travis: Give me a staff and I'll be Gandalf.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: And put beads in it. And a few flowers, as well.
Travis: Wait! Ooh, weird.
Marisha: It looks nice.
Travis: All right.
Matt: It takes you a lot of concentration to try and get any sort of braidage through the about an inch to inch and a half facial hair that is growing from his chin.
Marisha: Looks good!
Travis: It's really tight when you braid it like that. It pinches.
Marisha: You'll get used to it.
Laura: Maybe you can cast Grasping Vine on his chin and grow it out.
Matt: What could possibly go wrong? (laughter)
Travis: Do it. Could be great.
Orion: I suggest against this.
Travis: I thought you suggest violence.
Orion: No.
Sam: He encourages violence.
Laura: I encourage violence.
Orion: I'm against this.
Ashley: Is it just violence?
Laura: So we're healed. We're healed, right?
Sam: Oh, days have gone by, right?
Matt: Yeah, you guys have rested. Days have gone by, your spells have returned to you--
Liam: Hey, DM, days have gone by?
Laura: Trinket's feeling good.
Matt: Days have gone by at this time. You've continued traveling over the Ozmit Sea.
Orion: Are we nearing the destination?
Matt: I'll get to that in just a second. Do you have a question, Liam?
Liam: No, not a question, but last night while Grog was sleeping-- I can see right up Grog's nose. While Grog was sleeping, I went and got a bit of rope from the ship and used my disguise kit that I have. I sort of frayed a part of the rope and spent about an hour using spirit gum to glue bits of frayed rope to Grog's chin into a small Gilmore-esque goatee. And he didn't seem to wake up, and I'd like to see how that worked out.
Matt: (laughs) All righty.
Travis: I'm gonna do a sleep check or something, right? I can't let him survive that.
Matt: For this, go ahead and make a perception check with disadvantage.
Travis: With disadvantage?!
Sam: Because you're asleep!
Travis: One. (laughter)
Orion: Get it out now.
Matt: You wake up the following morning and immediately run to the nearest reflective surface to check on yourself, and you have a glorious, dark brown, well-braided, mildly frayed, thick, coarse goatee braid. It goes about a good three to four inches from the bottom of your chin. And you are very proud.
Travis: I knew it! I knew it! I am a special boy. (laughs) (laughter)
Travis: Only this one strand is this color and everything else is white and translucent, whatever--
Orion: I think it looks good on you, Grog.
Travis: Thank you! I wave my head and it whips around.
Ashley: (sings) I whip my beard back and forth.
Travis: (sings) I whip my beard back and forth.
Matt: It stays taut on your chin. All right, so as you reach the middle of the sixth day of travel, the sky, which up to this point had been fairly sunny and clear, begins to slowly cloud over. The weather grows more gray, and the clouds themselves seem to cluster more into-- I wouldn't say a stormfront, but definitely a more gloomy atmosphere.
Marisha: Can I do a nature check to see if this seems to be natural or arcane?
Matt: Certainly.
Orion: Nice.
Laura: (sings) With her big fancy die!
Marisha: Okay, that's a 10 plus-- 20, total.
Matt: All right. Looking at these clouds, it is a slow formation, and they aren't moving at an unnecessary speed or seem to have any ominous press towards you. It just seems like the weather itself towards this northern continent seems to be of a colder variety.
Orion: I'm going to sense the weather, I suppose, because this doesn't look fun.
Matt: Okay. The weather is cold.
Orion: Ooh, it's cold.
Travis: So the weather outside is frightful?
Laura: Good call, Tiberius. Good call. I agree, it is rather cold.
Orion: I don't like this. Scanlan.
Sam: Oi?
Orion: Like we were discussing earlier, would you be interested in the still-standing trade of my Ioun Stone for your circlet-crown thingy?
Sam: Oh, you know what, Tiberius, I have been giving this a lot of thought and consideration. What's for lunch?
Orion: What would you like for lunch? I already ate.
Sam: Oh. No. No, I was done with the conversation.
Travis: Oh, good diss.
Laura: Oh.
Ashley: Oh.
Orion: Well. Keyleth, if you could put a little slate up for me, I'd like to illustrate something for little Scanlan. And perhaps his tiny mind can comprehend it. (clears throat)
Laura: Ooh!
Ashley: Hey, that's rude.
Orion: Would you, perhaps, do this?
Laura: His tiny mind is exactly proportionate for the rest of his body, Tiberius.
Sam: Well, not the entire body.
Orion: I'm going to walk up to the hull and be like--
Marisha: No! Write it right here! I throw up a slate.
Orion: Oh. (clears throat)
Matt: Okay. It's the strangest wall you've constructed, as up in the air on the ship that is mostly constructed out of iron and metal, there is little to no stone available of which you can sprout a Wall of Stone. However, there are weights set up on top, so what you create is less of a smooth Wall of Stone and more of a very thin, brittle shale wall that may function for the time being, but probably won't stand up for more than five to ten minutes.
Orion: I see. Prestidigitation. Some chalk.
Matt: All right.
Orion: You see, Scanlan, you've had this particular piece for over ten, let's say, matches or weeks. You have used it zero times. In over six battles, over the same course, using it zero times. (laughter)
Orion: I, being a sorcerer, have a special ability called sorcerer points, where I can do multiple spells in a single round.
Sam: Yes.
Orion: Which none of you can do. Other than monks, of course.
Laura: That's true. Brag about it, Tiberius. Just keep bragging about it.
Orion: When I can do multiple spells, like two, versus you, who can do one, that means that I can do one more spell than you can per round. (laughter)
Sam: All right.
Orion: And every round after that. One hundred percent. (laughter)
Sam: This is amazing.
Orion: Your utilization of the actual item has been equivalent to nothing. In the interest of the group and the use of items in general, it would be wise to switch it, because you have needed extra spells like Invisibility--
Matt: The shale wall cracks. (laughter)
Orion: Several times.
Marisha: I'm sorry.
Orion: Where my item would be more useful in general to you.
Liam: May I ask, is magical ability inversely proportionate to wisdom?
Orion: Oh, me?
Sam: Who are you asking?
Ashley: Is magical ability inversely proportionate to wisdom?
Orion: Absolutely not. I am one of the strongest casters in all of Draconia, and it only takes the strength of my charisma to do my stuff.
Laura: Oh. Everything makes sense now, Tiberius.
Travis: So are you saying you want what he has back?
Sam: (laughs) I didn't recognize you, Grog. Is that you?
Travis: It is I, Brad Pitt from Legends of the Fall. (laughter)
Travis: My beard of glory.
Orion: That is a movie.
Travis: It's an old bard's tale.
Orion: So, Scanlan. What say you?
Sam: Your mathematical skills have been quite impressive.
Orion: I don't like to show them off.
Sam: No, no. For a man of such low wisdom, you are proving wiser than I ever imagined. (laughter)
Sam: I will gladly make this trade with you. You have convinced me.
Laura: Hey.
Marisha: Aww.
Orion: Oh, wonderful. Thank you.
Sam: Yes. Yes.
Ashley: Hey.
Laura: That's wonderful.
Sam: All right. Hugs, hugs, hugs. (laughter)
Orion: (explosion sound)
Sam: Now, what does this thing do?
Orion: Now you can store up to three level spells. Three of them in there.
Laura: Oh, it's better than the Pearl of Power!
Orion: And you don't have to expend spell slots to do the spells.
Sam: All right. Thank you very much.
Ashley: Hey.
Laura: That's a good trade.
Travis: Oh my god, that was so good.
Ashley: That was amazing.
Orion: You can put three Lightning Bolts in there and it costs nothing.
Ashley: Oh, math!
Sam: All right, all right. I'm man enough to admit that he's convinced me.
Travis: That was so good.
Ashley: That was awesome.
Travis: I don't know what you wrote, but it looked good.
Marisha: Oh, man.
Orion: I'm sorry.
Matt: The Ioun Stone which you had taken, you place by your head and release. It seems to fix itself in the air and slowly rotate above your head.
Orion: It orbits.
Matt: Almost held in its own orbital gravity around your head.
Laura: Ooh.
Sam: Pike.
Ashley: Oh. (laughs) Oh, wow. It's like you have a halo.
Orion: It is fancy.
Sam: It's like a halo. Like your god has smiled on me, maybe, and said, "He's cool. Go for it."
Ashley: Oh, wow. Well, I don't know if that's what it means.
Sam: Well. You know, religion is up to interpretation, so I interpret it that way.
Ashley: It is very cool-looking.
Sam: Thank you, Pike.
Travis: (laughs) So casual, her god. "It's cool. Go for it."
Matt: (laughs) Sarenrae. The she-bro you never had. (laughter)
Sam: Sarenrae's my wingman.
Ashley: We cool, Sarenrae.
Travis: I can't breathe.
Matt: Many a cart hold that bumper sticker. All right, so as this conversation comes to a close, the temperature in the sky has gotten noticeably chillier. And you swear for an instant you start seeing what looks like specks of white snow beginning to drift from the clouds ahead.
Marisha: (gasps) It's snowing.
Laura: It's snow, Keyleth.
Sam: (sings) I'm dreaming of a white whatever-we-celebrate.
Travis: Festivus!
Orion: Festivus.
Marisha: There was something I should probably tell you. In this area of land, in Vasselheim, on this continent, somewhere, I'm not sure where, resides the Fire Ashari. Somewhere in the town of Pyrah.
Laura: What's that?
Ashley: Ooh.
Laura: What are Fire Ashari?
Marisha: Well, they're my sister tribe. They're a part of my sister tribe. I come from the Air Ashari.
Laura: Right.
Travis: Uh-huh.
Marisha: Yeah, from Zephra.
Ashley: (whispers) Fire Ashari?
Laura: So they-- oh.
Marisha: Yeah, so there are Fire Ashari. So the point behind the Ashari-- I'm not sure I have expressed this to you all in the past few months. The point of our tribe is we sought out the weakest points where the elemental planes start to bleed with our plane of existence, and these planes need to be protected, so our people have sought them all out in order to make haven there and be the protectors that we were all born to be. And as part of my Aramente, I have to seek out each of the headmasters and prove myself a worthy leader.
Travis: Ooh.
Marisha: Which makes me really nervous.
Laura: We've got your back, Keyleth.
Ashley: Oh, you'll do it. You'll totally do it.
Travis: Yeah. Yeah, we can burn shit for days.
Marisha: So I just thought, you know, maybe after we handle the Horn, maybe we can pop in. You know, since we're here.
Laura: Totally. You know, if you want to, Keyleth, when we go, we'll all follow your orders and make it seem like you're an extraordinary leader of us.
Travis: Ooh, yeah.
Marisha: Oh. That could be good. Oh, that sounds fun!
Orion: Oh. Good idea, yes. Of course, I will be your mage guard.
Travis: Do they make you burn things as a display of your abilities?
Marisha: Well, they kind of teach me new things.
Laura: Ooh!
Marisha: They kind of instill me with their knowledge.
Laura: So the tornado thing. You could be like a fire tornado?
Marisha: I could. I know!
Travis: Shut up!
Marisha: I'm so excited! But yes. Super nervous, because social skills aren't my strongest suit.
Laura: We've noticed.
Travis: You're a natural. You're great.
Laura: You're great, though.
Marisha: Oh, you guys.
Ashley: But it's very charming.
Travis: We gotta go there. It's fire everywhere!
Orion: (laughs) Oh.
Marisha: Yes. Yes.
Liam: Is everything copacetic between the different tribes?
Travis: Oh, good question.
Marisha: What? What?
Travis: Is it copacetic?
Laura: Are you guys friendly with each other?
Liam: Are they happy?
Orion: The tribes.
Marisha: Well, yes. Yeah, no, we're all happy. I mean, that's kind of the thing, where once a generation someone sets out and goes on the Aramente in order to come back a headmaster, and it's kind of like our once-a-generation check-in, if you will, to make sure everything's okay.
Travis: Exchange students.
Marisha: Unfortunately, the last person to go on the Aramente didn't come back, which happens sometimes. Yeah.
Travis: Like, didn't come back ever?
Marisha: No.
Laura: So, like, you could die?
Orion: Or maybe they got lost to the winds of the road.
Travis: Right, yeah.
Marisha: It was actually my mother.
Orion: Oh, goodness.
Laura: (gasps) What?
Travis: To which tribe?
Marisha: I-- we don't know. She left when I was a little girl, so I don't remember much. So I don't know if she's alive or dead, really, but--
Laura: Keyleth.
Travis: We did not know that.
Marisha: It's okay. It's okay.
Travis: Yeah, no bigs, right?
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: Just your mother.
Marisha: I mean, it's-- I mean. Well. It's fine. It's just. It's weird. I haven't seen her, so I don't know.
Sam: Awkward.
Marisha: I barely remember her.
Travis: Do you think there's a chance of when we visit this place, we might have to defend ourselves?
Marisha: No. No. I wouldn't think so.
Orion: Which means "of course."
Laura: It's not like your family, Grog. They're actually nice.
Marisha: Yeah, we're pretty-- we're cool.
Travis: Look, my family is nice, too. We just share love with fists.
Orion: Understandable.
Laura: That sounds wrong in so many ways.
Travis: It does, actually.
Liam: Keyleth, did your mother have to go alone, or does your tribe permit there to be help for you?
Marisha: I'm assuming it would be okay. We're pretty welcoming.
Laura: That's good.
Travis: Yeah, we should totally be there.
Laura: All right. We will go.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: And maybe ask them if they've seen your mom.
Marisha: Yeah. That'd be interesting.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: It's weird. There's this part of me in the back of my head that kind of always wonders if I'm going to run into her.
Travis: How old-- when was the last time you saw your mother, or do you even remember?
Marisha: I was five, six maybe, years old when she left.
Travis: Wow.
Marisha: So I'm the next in line.
Laura: (whispers) Wow.
Sam: This is heavy.
Travis: Yeah.
Ashley: This is very heavy.
Marisha: I'm sorry. I didn't mean to bring the mood down.
Sam: No, it's fine. It's good to know this.
Marisha: I'm just letting you know that we're going to be in that neck of the woods, so I should probably--
Laura: Stop by.
Ashley: Yes.
Marisha: -- you know, go.
Travis: Absolutely.
Laura: Give a little hello.
Matt: "Land sighted!" A voice breaks out from the side of the ship's bow.
Orion: Ooh.
Matt: You guys glance over quickly to the edge of the skyship, and you see, right over the edge of Deera, what looks to be this ominous continent slowly approaching. Through the mists, the low clouds of this area, you can make out what looks to be a fairly heavily wooded and overgrown landscape. You can see dark forest peppered with a little bit of snowfall across the top.
Laura: My kind of place.
Matt: Occasional mountaintops and peaks breaking through the canopy of the distant forest.
Laura: Look, Trinket! Home.
Matt: Trinket looms up to the side and looks a bit chilly and shakes it off. At which point, Kima comes up and joins the rest of you. Puts her elbows over and looks off wistfully for a second and goes, (sighs) "It's been some time. Welcome to Othanzia, folks. It's an interesting place."
Travis: It is, isn't it?
Laura: We'll follow your lead.
Matt: She points off, says, "This forest here we refer to as the Vesper Timberland, and it goes for miles and miles and miles before bleeding into endless tundra to the north, so let's hopefully not travel that far." (sighs) "This'll be interesting." And she turns around and heads back down into the ship. As you continue--
Laura: Good talk!
Marisha: Why did she say that? (laughs) I know!
Orion: Who was that person?
Marisha: That was so weird, right?
Orion: Everywhere we go. It's everywhere we go. Why can't people be normal?
Travis: She's warming up to me, I can feel it.
Matt: As the ship slowly begins to descend, you can see, in the distance, from one of the various mountain ranges that break past the top, there is one singular mountain spire that tends to protrude from the center of the forest, about 20 to 30 miles off the shoreline of the Ozmit Sea. Around the base of this mountain, you can see, the closer you get to it, what looks like hundreds upon hundreds of stone buildings. You can see little details along the mountainside. Countless staircases are spiraling up this mountain in different directions in a chaotic fashion. There are large structures, fortresses, built into the side of this mountain spire as you progress up the top. And this city proper, which spreads out, I'd say, about a third larger than Emon. Layers of walls and walls and walls. This is probably the most-fortified city you've seen in your existence up to this point. Slowly it begins to bring itself down towards-- and you can see, as you get closer to the city, the walls vary in color and material. Some look recently built. Some look like they'd been constructed in the past 50 to 60 years or so from fine, smooth stone, using modern architectural techniques. Some walls look extremely ancient, partially crumbled and having to be refortified. You also notice the top of these walls are completely covered with what looks like these strange dragon-headed ballistae. These defense ballistae that are along every single row of walls. This is a city that is meant to withstand--
Marisha: A siege.
Matt: -- any sort of a siege or onslaught.
Laura: Does it look like it's suffered a lot of sieges? I mean, is there battle damage to the--
Matt: It's hard to tell from this distance. You're just starting to pick up details as the ship slowly descends into the city of Vasselheim proper. But from what you can tell, there are scars across some of the larger buildings. Some of the walls look like they have sections that have been knocked down and then rebuilt and then knocked down and then rebuilt. This is a very, very old, old city. Slowly, the ship descends towards what looks like a smoothed-out, flattened platform on top of some mill of some kind. It doesn't look like it's built for skyship purposes, more than it's been haphazardly put together to receive a skyship should it come to the city. But it looks like that type of travel doesn't come to this area too often. At this point in time, you can see now, the crew is gathering their ropes, they're getting ready to go ahead and lower it down. Captain Damon is slowly steering and shouting directions back and forth to his deckhands. The Scalebearers and Kima come up to the top of the ship, carrying the box that contains the Horn of Orcus, as well. As the ship slowly makes its way to dock on the top of this mill, Kima, who has all of her materials over her shoulder, says, "All right, so. It's everyone's first time here in the city?"
Sam: Yes.
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Yeah, well. Keyleth?
Orion: I've never been here.
Marisha: No.
Sam: Okay. Yes.
Matt: "All right."
Orion: And there's enough in the interim for a short rest from us getting from there to the last day to where we're at?
Matt: Yeah, yeah.
Travis: A day's rest? All right.
Orion: Okay, cool. Awesome.
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Tiberius, you ever been here?
Orion: No. (laughter)
Laura: Is it cold in the city?
Matt: It's pretty chilly as you come down. I mean, you wear furs naturally in cold environments, but this is-- the temperature's to the point where you may have to consider getting a little bit of warmer clothing if you travel too far outside of the city.
Travis: How do goliaths do? Not wearing much.
Laura: I have a lot of winter cloaks already in my--
Sam: We have some fancy cloaks, too, don't we?
Laura: Well, those are fancy clothes.
Sam: Oh.
Laura: But I've got winter coats that I bought for the group a long time ago.
Sam: All right. Pass them out.
Laura: All right.
Matt: So she pulls out the really nice, thick--
Marisha: Oh, that's right. We went shopping.
Laura: Remember?
Marisha: I remember.
Ashley: Oh, we went shopping.
Travis: We have three other fancy robes.
Ashley: We had a girl shop day.
Marisha: Yep.
Sam: A fancy. I want a fancy robe.
Travis: You do? It's huge on you. You want it anyway.
Orion: I'd have to take off my cloak, though, to wear that, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Orion: I won't wear one. I keep my cloak on.
Travis: I give you a colorful one.
Sam: I'll gird it.
Matt: We'll say you could probably put it over. It will just look a little chunky.
Orion: Okay.
Sam: I'm going to take a large fancy robe and try to tie it up-- to gird it so that it looks okay.
Laura: He wants a fancy robe, not a fur.
Travis: Be aware, we only have two left.
Sam: I'm going to gird my loins.
Matt: And you gird them well. You look like the tiniest Turkish wrestler you've ever seen.
Laura: Oh. (laughter)
Matt: It's kind of adorable.
Sam: Also, I'm going to cast Lightning Bolt into the Ioun Stone.
Orion: Yay.
Matt: Okay. So mark that down, you have a third-level Lightning Bolt saved. You still used the spell slot, but after you rest, it'll be safe inside there. Which is an interesting experience, you see him do this arcane finger wiggle in the air, and then he releases what is a burst of electrical energy that immediately funnels itself and vanishes into the stone, which is now humming with this low pulsing glow of greenish-blue light.
Sam: (whispers) Pike, are you watching this?
Ashley: Wow, and you're--
Laura: It's green? It's a green-- wait, is it like a diamond shape?
Sam: I don't know.
Laura: It's like a Sim!
Marisha: Oh, it's like a Sims thing.
Orion: It's like a little--
Laura: As long as it's green, you're happy, Scanlan!
Orion: But I believe it's white, right? It's a white stone?
Matt: It is a white stone, but the energy glowing off it is greenish in color.
Orion: Ah, there you go.
Marisha: He's happy.
Ashley: And you're so well-girded.
Sam: I'm girded and I've got a shiny head.
Matt: Eventually the ship comes to a stop. You feel a little bit of a lurching sensation as the ship suddenly halts its advancing. All the ropes get dropped off the sides. They start bringing what looks to be some sort of a haphazard crane also, in preparation for Trinket to be lowered off the ship. You can see, there's a look of-- I can't describe it better than anxiousness to Kima. She says, "If you have any questions about the city, just speak up and I'll do my best."
Laura: Where do we take the Horn?
Sam: (laughs) That's a good question. (laughter)
Matt: "I believe--" And she looks over the edge of the ship. "I believe our escorts will be happy to guide us."
Laura: Our escorts?
Liam: I'd like to do an insight check before we hustle off.
Matt: On?
Travis: Kima.
Liam: Kima.
Matt: Go for it.
Orion: I would like to look for any places-- oh, sorry.
Liam: I rolled an 18.
Matt: Okay, and what are you trying to glean off of her?
Liam: Why does she seem anxious? Does she seem different? Does her demeanor seem different, or does she just seem in a hurry?
Matt: You can probably take it as a little bit of being in a hurry, but you also get the feeling like-- there's a nervousness to her that stems-- it's hard to really tell where it comes from, but there is a nervousness to her.
Laura: Kima, when was the last time you were with your Order?
Matt: "Proper? That would be eight years."
Laura: Oh.
Orion: That's a long time to be out of Order.
Matt: "Of which-- we are about to meet them."
Orion: Sorry.
Sam: High five.
Laura: Do you get along well with them?
Matt: "Yes. Yes. They're just, well." (laughs) "You'll see." And she leaps over the side of the ship, grabbing the rope, and lowers herself down, as do the rest of the-- the two Scalebearers come down in tandem, clutching the chain on the sides of the box, bringing it down almost like a big Jacob's ladder.
Travis: (quietly) I love you.
Matt: Eventually, you all make your way onto the platform, and they're waiting for you. You see there's a cluster of well-armored men and women, wearing semi-matching gray tabards over patchwork and plated armor. They look like a really rough-and-tumble militia, but they all stand firm and as you guys walk up, they give a nod of respect and understanding. Amongst them, you see one gentleman, an elderly gentleman with no hair, completely bald, thick spectacles on the tip of his nose, wearing the same silver and blue robes as the envoys that met you at the Council of Tal'Dorei, the ones that are carrying the box. As you all approach, Kima steps out ahead and says, "Yonn. It's been a while."
Sam: Yonn.
Matt: The old man steps forward. "It has been, indeed, Kima. It has, indeed. And that's Scalebearer Yonn, if you don't mind--"
Travis: Scalebearer.
Matt: "I would prefer in mixed company the proper niceties of our presentation."
Laura: Oh, we're no proper company. It's all right.
Matt: "Hm. And you are?"
Sam: We are--
Orion: I'm Tiberius Stormwind, and we are Vox Machina. Everybody has names, too.
Laura: Hmm.
Ashley: I'm Pike.
Marisha: Keyleth.
Sam: I'm Ioun Stone-bearer Scanlan. (laughter)
Matt: He cocks his head curiously.
Sam: You can call me Kingslayer. I also did that.
Matt: "Very well." Percy introduces himself, as well.
Travis: I have a beard. (laughter)
Matt: He gives you the most curious look of all, which is hard to follow off of Scanlan over here. "And I'm to understand these are the bearers of the artifact?" Kima gives a nod. "Yes, and I think we should be on our way quickly." "Yes, yes, of course. Please. These are our escorts. Follow suit. We will bring you onward to the Platinum Sanctuary proper to dispose of this thing."
Sam: How far is the Platinum Sanctuary?
Matt: "No more than a 25-minute walk."
Laura: Oh.
Sam: Oh.
Ashley: May I insight-check Yonn?
Matt: You may.
Liam: Yes, please.
Marisha: Oh, so--
Orion: I'm going to look for any temples that might have a sigil inside while we're going through the town.
Matt: All right. Do you want to ask around about that?
Orion: I'll ask the Yonn guy.
Matt: Okay. Well, first off, you finish your insight check. What did you roll?
Ashley: What did you get, Liam?
Liam: 13.
Ashley: Okay. I got 15.
Matt: Okay. He seems stuffy. He seems definitely dedicated to whatever his intent is, but there doesn't seem to be anything deceptive in his speech.
Marisha: So am I correct to assume our plan is that we're going to march this Horn through the town? Until we get to the temple?
Laura: Well, nobody knows what it is.
Orion: Right.
Sam: Well, unless someone--
Laura: So we'll just be aware there's a huge envoy.
Marisha: I mean, we can only assume-- Yonn?
Matt: "Yes?"
Marisha: How many people in this city are aware of this Horn being brought here?
Matt: "Well, up until now, other than myself, you travelers, and the Highbearer Vord himself, no one else."
Orion: Hm.
Marisha: Highbearer Vor-- his name is Vord?
Matt: "Vord. The Highbearer of the Platinum Dragon."
Laura: What kind of man is he?
Matt: You hear when he mentions Vord, Kima twitches a little bit, and you remember Kima's official title is Lady Kima of Vord.
Laura: Hm.
Orion: Hm.
Sam: Her ex?
Travis: Is that her pops? Her pops?
Orion: Vonn. Yonn?
Matt: "Scalebearer Yonn, yes."
Orion: Oh, Scalebearer Yonn, that's a fun name. (clears throat) As we travel through town, if you could point me to any place that would have a sigil of arcane-ness--
Sam: Arcane-iosity is what he's trying to say.
Matt: "There are none."
Orion: Oh.
Matt: "This city, arcane magic for the most part, is not allowed within consistent practice. This is a divine, a holy place."
Orion: Ah.
Matt: "And the arcane tends to, ah. How do you say, when unwatched, corrupt and destroy from the inside. "
Liam: Oh shit, Tiberius.
Orion: No, I'm fine! He's talking about other people.
Travis: You don't have any arcane abilities anyway, right?
Orion: Oh of course I do, I'm a sorcerer.
Laura: No no no, right?
Sam: Ix-nay.
Travis: Wink wink, nudge nudge.
Orion: No, no, I think he-- sure.
Matt: "This here in Vasselheim, the cradle of faith, the Dawn City, of once all civilization and current faith once stemmed from. There is no way in but by foot. It is a pilgrimage, a journey for each to come here, and those that stay, stay of their own will and divine right." And as he refers to the guards, each guard you see now has around their neck a very visibly shown holy symbol of some kind of deity. Most seem to fall--
Marisha: We've basically walked into the Crucible.
Orion: It's fine.
Matt: -- into the realm of Arathis, Avandra, Melora, and a couple with Bahamut. None of--
Ashley: None of Sarenrae.
Matt: None of Sarenrae.
Travis: Or as Liam calls it, Sa-REN-rae.
Laura: The best one?
Ashley: The best, the best one.
Liam: Sa-REN-rae! (laughter)
Ashley: Sarenrae!
Orion: I'm going to take it you don't see very many dragonborn in these parts.
Matt: "No, and frankly you're making me a bit nervous."
Orion: Oh.
Matt: "However, as we ourselves are followers of the Platinum Dragon, we understand that it is dragonkind at the heart of it, the metallics, that bring life and civilization and order to this world."
Orion: Yes.
Matt: "Your color I find off-putting."
Orion: It's--
Laura: I've always noticed a fine metallic sheen coming from your red scales.
Orion: No, I'm of the chromatic nature, I'm a bit of an anomaly in my family, they're all of the metallic brand, I assure you. The Stormwind name runs true and wide throughout Draconia, but--
Matt: "I have heard of the Stormwinds, yes."
Orion: I cast Alter Self real quick and I turn myself into, I believe, gold. Because that's the red-- equivalent of red. On the metallic scale.
Matt: Okay. He gives you a curious look and goes--
Orion: I think that would be better for everyone involved.
Matt: "I would be mindful to not do such things so openly in public in the future."
Orion: Oh, sorry.
Matt: "Ahem." And he kind of adjusts his robe. "This way please, follow me." And Scalebearer Yonn leads you--
Laura: You look very nice, Tiberius.
Ashley: You look really great in gold.
Orion: Thank you, thank you.
Marisha: So wait, hang on, hang on, hang on.
Travis: What?
Marisha: Before we move on-- we're about to leave, I'm assuming?
Matt: You're stepping off the platform onto a staircase that leads off of the top of the mill.
Marisha: Should a few of us kind of like flank around and--
Laura: Definitely, we should all kind of surround the box, sure.
Travis: Like rooftops and shit.
Marisha: Rooftop shit, yeah.
Laura: Oh.
Travis: I like it.
Marisha: I can go eagle form and have aerial support.
Travis: I love it.
Laura: I can stick to the rooftops, I guess, try to follow along.
Travis: Overwatch.
Marisha: Overwatch. What's that? Yeah.
Laura: I'll snick to the rooftops and try to follow along, sniper eye.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Yeah, you two up top.
Ashley: I'll just stay right on the path.
Travis: Yep, you and me.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Smash hands.
Matt: All right, so.
Orion: I'll take the six.
Matt: Okay. As you--
Liam: I'm gonna stay with it but try to blend in with the crowd.
Matt: All right, all right. Go ahead and make a stealth check.
Liam: Yes.
Travis: Scanlan?
Liam: 23 for stealth.
Matt: All right, ah, if you wouldn't mind, Vex, making a stealth check as well?
Laura: Oh.
Travis: Overwatch.
Matt: Just to keep your rooftop activity inconspicuous.
Laura: Not disturbing.
Travis: We have a UAV.
Laura: Oh, well I rolled a one. So that's lovely.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Are you flying up above?
Marisha: Yeah, I'm going eagle.
Travis: Don't you have advantage?
Laura: Do I have advantage in-- no.
Orion: And I'm taking up the rear, following behind.
Matt: No. Not in this terrain, unfortunately.
Ashley: But there are forests here.
Laura: But with the forests I'd be amazing.
Liam: I do applaud your honesty, though, sister.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: So as you loudly clomp up and begin rooftop-hopping, a few individuals in the city kind of take notice and they point up, which by the way--
Laura: I wink at them as I'm climbing up.
Matt: Ah, the classic Vex wink. All right, so. Just you guys-- kind of atmosphere, as you step down the staircase and get to the main city street proper, the first thing you notice, the roads themselves are not cobblestone, are not brick, they are mud. They are thick, recently sleeted mud. You hear the clomping of horse hooves as carts are pulled through and each one is a sickly (squelch) sound as each footstep makes it through. The people of this city are a very hardened and rugged folk. Most clothing is swathed in furs and thick leathers, armor is patchwork in itself, most of the men grow coarse facial hair and the women themselves, their hair is wild and their appearance very stoic and grizzled. The landscape of Vasselheim-- oh, thank you kindly. Delivery of our chicken.
Marisha: Chicken through the magic door.
Matt: The people who live here, you gather, quickly walking through-- and Kima gives you a bit of insight as well-- live here not because it's easy to live, not because there's many comforts, it's a very harsh living in the city of Vasselheim. But the city is also currently the oldest known bastion of civilization in the world. As far as it's understood, most human civilization, and a lot of humans believe pre-elf and pre-dwarf, although the dwarves and elves very staunchly disagree, all stemmed from this city, which is believed to be tens of thousands of years old. They have uncovered the single oldest temples to the main deities of good and neutrality within this city, and as such it is considered the holiest place in the modern world, which is why it has been through many, many wars and has seen much warfare and strife and difficulty. And those that live here live here because they feel that they can fight against this, and they actually call it a privilege to exist in this harsh landscape as devotion to their respective deities. Also, because it is such a holy place, this is why the arcane is considered, for the most part, profane in public and very carefully controlled otherwise.
Travis: So we gotta be sneaky with that.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: The buildings look old--
Travis: So I'll put my spells in my back pocket for now.
Matt: The buildings range from old to newer stone, warped wood from just the weather itself. You can see a lot of the wood has a kind of mossy texture to it just from the general overgrowth that tends to take the city. It's not kept for beauty, it's kept for function. There's scars across most of the buildings where you can see warfare has bled into the city, and there are markings and various points of ancient damage and certain structures that have not been rebuilt, that have just been left in ruin where they stand, because they have not yet found somebody or a purpose to be restructured. It's a very different landscape than what you're used to, and the walk itself is a very solemn, quiet walk through the city. The folks that do take notice just kind of give a nod of acknowledgement or a gruff grunt as they pass by. There doesn't seem to be a definite interest in your travel, this isn't a special occasion. It seems like travelers and strange occurrences are not that unnatural in this city.
Marisha: Okay. So it's like New York.
Matt: You could say that, yeah. It's a very ancient New York.
Sam: And we're carrying a large ark, or a box of some sort?
Matt: You are carrying the platinum box that the Horn was kept in.
Sam: How big is it?
Matt: It's approximately like a foot and a half, or two feet by two feet.
Ashley: Oh, Taliesin's here.
Laura: Oh!
Travis: Taliesin's outside.
Sam: And it's platinum? It's just a platinum box?
Matt: Yes, it is made of like solid platinum and silver with a series of very, very intricate scrolling and engravings on it.
Marisha: Is it sticking out like a sore thumb?
Laura: There were some sapphires in there, too, some blue sapphires, I remember.
Matt: Yes, yes.
Marisha: Is it sticking out like a sore thumb?
Matt: Best you can tell, there are people taking notice of it, but none that like stop and gawk, they just kind of, "huh." Keep walking.
Marisha: Damn, maybe we should've thrown a blanket or something over it.
Matt: You could if you want to, now.
Travis: Can we, though?
Marisha: Burlap sack or something? Anybody?
Matt: The guards still flanking you guys, surrounding this ensemble as it presses towards the base of the mountain. You make your way towards the edge of the mountain, or where the mountain begins at the bottom of the floor, and you can see dozens of staircases ascending the outskirts of this giant pointed cragless spire that just sticks up into, actually, the clouds cut off the top of it. It's reminiscent of Gatshadow, the mountain outside of Westruun that you guys traveled to long ago.
Travis: Right.
Matt: But even larger. You continue up this staircase, and the stonework itself is a little lopsided and awkward, and with each step sometimes you have to kinda catch yourself, especially as the wind begins to pick up the higher up the mountain you go, and it takes about 15 to 20 minutes to ascend this staircase. Your legs begin to grow a little sore, until eventually you reach the base of what you can only imagine is the Platinum Sanctuary. You see before you, built into the side of the rock of this mountain, a grand stone fortress that looks older than time in itself. You can see the elements have weathered to the point where even the solid points and how the stonework was meant to be an edge has been rounded and smoothed down. There are a series of silver markings across the outskirts of it, which Tiberius, you recognize as Draconic.
Orion: Look, Percy, it's Draconic.
Taliesin: Oh, so it is. (laughter)
Matt: Certain words in Draconic--
Marisha: Percy, you've been so quiet here lately.
Taliesin: I don't want to talk about it.
Matt: You see phrases emblazoned on the side of this giant temple that say things like "honor, justice." Various, very old base Draconic stuff. The current language is a more refined version. This is a very, very ancient basis of that language.
Orion: See that, Scanlan? That says something like Apollo Justice something.
Sam: It's Phoenix something.
Orion: It's maybe the rise of the justice of the phoenix.
Sam: Nah, I don't know.
Orion: It's a lot of things.
Travis: Dawn of justice--
Matt: On the top of this fortress, you see three constructs that don't match the stone structure. These may have been constructed or built many years later and have been added onto the temple. But three ivory and silver spires, towers that ascend from the top of the fortress itself, almost parallel to the very steep mountainside that this fortress is built into. You come to the front doors of this structure. Two very, very large gray stone doors with almost what looks like white marbling through them, and you can see, mostly worn away but still barely visible, the symbol of a shield with a dragon head emblazoned on the front of it, the symbol of Bahamut. As the Scalebearer-- yes, that there-- as the Scalebearers approach the front, the doors, on their own, and open to the interior, the grinding sound of stone across the marble flooring of the fortress proper. You can see the interior. Did you have a question?
Marisha: Can I see inside the temple? Or are the temples pretty enclosed?
Matt: You can see now as the doors begin to open.
Marisha: Well, I was an eagle flying overhead.
Matt: Oh, yes! You--
Marisha: And I was gonna do a perception check to see if I noticed, like kinda do a loop of the temple.
Matt: Go for it.
Sam: So, I'm an eagle.
Marisha: So I'm an eagle right now, so.
Taliesin: You're such an eagle. Oh my god.
Laura: I very, very poorly fall off of the roof and clamber down.
Marisha: 20 total.
Matt: Best you can tell, there are for the makeshift guards in the city-- which, you've heard them referred to as Bastions, they're all volunteers, and actually from what you gather here, probably a quarter of the populace are Bastions. So they have a very, very heavy civilian-based militia that guards this city.
Sam: Are those the guys who were with us, the envoys?
Matt: Yes. No, no, not the envoys, the envoys' come from the temple of Bahamut, they have the blue and silver robes. You see, they're just wearing makeshift patchwork armor, whatever that could be scavenged or constructed to outfit a militia, essentially.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: You see them going up and down every which staircase, just doing various passes and patrolwork. Some of them have spyglasses and you see them looking off in the distance, and as you're getting higher up the mountain, too, you look out about, and you can see the entire forest around you. Very thick, ominous, and you swear every now and then you can see some trees move suddenly and heavily before coming to rest in the distance.
Marisha: I'm gonna go check that out first.
Matt: The rest of you are entering the temple. Keyleth is not there.
Orion: Is it lit in there?
Matt: The doors close behind you.
Sam: Hope Keyleth is okay.
Laura: Keyleth--
Marisha: (eagle noises)
Liam: I don't think that I was with the group, I think I was back with the crowd--
Laura: No, you--
Sam: Great.
Liam: -- so I see the eagle fly off and I'm just gonna follow after her.
Laura: What?
Matt: The eagle flies out of the city.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: You're gonna leave the city, brother?
Liam: No.
Orion: You're leaving?
Marisha: Gonna see if I can figure out what's making the trees move.
Liam: Now that I understand the--
Laura: Come on in the temple.
Liam: But do I still get shut in my face? So.
Marisha: I'm flying! I'm fine.
Liam: It's a big solid building, doors are shut, that's it?
Matt: Yeah, I mean, the temple, would you like to enter the temple with the rest of the group?
Laura: Yeah, you would.
Ashley: Yeah, do it.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: So just as the doors are closing, you rush out of your subtle following pattern and, wait, and put your hands up and manage to make your way into the temple right before the doors close, catching up with the rest of the group. Keyleth, make a perception check.
Marisha: I have advantage because I'm an eagle. Ooh, natural 20!
Sam: Nice!
Travis: Nice!
Taliesin: On the shiny die.
Matt: All right.
Orion: It is on the shiny die.
Matt: It's hard to see much of anything because the canopy of this forest is so dense and so thick, and the snowfall itself, which is getting stronger through the air, and is kind of obscuring some of your vision, but you glance down and you see another set of trees shift suddenly about a quarter-mile away from the city's walls. And you can see on the edge of the city wall a number of guards are beginning to swarm up to the ballista and starting to load them and prepare them. You glance down, and all you see are something fast-moving beneath the canopy, something large. Something you can swear you see it looks serpentine-like. But multiple serpentine-like bodies or forms. And then it's gone in a second.
Laura: Hydra! You think it's a hydra?
Orion: I don't want it to be a hydra.
Liam: Stop gasping, I don't see shit, Laura.
Orion: Oh, that's right.
Laura: Shut up!
Matt: You see a couple ballista set loose. The bolts go flying through the air, entering the forest. You can hear a loud screeching sound, and a few dozen forests now begin to shake to the side as the creature makes its way away from the city before going still in the distance.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: You get the sensation that this is a--
Marisha: A common occurrence.
Matt: -- a common occurrence.
Marisha: Okay. Good to know. I'm going to loop back around. Is there like an open window in the temple that I can just fly through--
Orion: Ooh. Is there a super clear one that she could try to go through first?
Marisha: Be like that Windex commercial, back in the day.
Matt: The temple--
Orion: (crashing sounds) Dammit!
Matt: You make your way--
Marisha: I break my neck, I die.
Orion: No.
Matt: There are small-- they are not windows, more than they are slits for arrow defense.
Travis: Right.
Matt: You as Keyleth could squeeze through. It would be one of those things where you have to careen in, transform, and then squeeze through.
Marisha: Okay, I'll do that.
Matt: Which you do, and as you do, you come right into the face of a spear right there--
Laura: (gasps) You should have transformed into a fly.
Matt: -- as another one of the Platinum Dragon guards says, "Who goes there?"
Sam: Oh boy.
Marisha: Hi. Hi.
Matt: Another guard begins to approach from the side.
Marisha: I am with Vox Machina. I'm pretty sure they just came through the front door. It's cool. I was just doing-- just like aerial support. I'm just going to go and reconnect with my group. It's fine.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Marisha: I'm Keyleth.
Travis: (whispers) Mention the Scalebearer.
Marisha: I'm not good at this shit.
Matt: You're not there, Grog.
Marisha: What am I doing? A persuasion check?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Christ.
Orion: You're going to roll a one.
Matt: Sorry, Miss Charisma.
Marisha: Shut up.
Taliesin: Oh, wow.
Marisha: Oh, wait. I don't know why I'm rolling two.
Taliesin: That's real funny.
Marisha: Six?
Laura: Oh no!
Sam: Keyleth's dead.
Orion: (whispers) No, they'll probably just put her in prison.
Matt: The guy holding the spear to you keeps it there. The other guy walks up behind and says, "Let me see your hands."
Laura: (gasps)
Liam: Shit.
Marisha: Why?
Matt: "Let me see your hands." He takes your hands, pulls out a set of shackles--
Laura: (gasps)
Ashley: Oh no.
Matt: -- and locks them on.
Laura: This is the second time you've been arrested!
Marisha: Yeah, it is.
Matt: The guy with spear turns behind you and just holds it to your back as the gentleman who just cuffed you grabs the chain between and starts pulling you towards the main chamber.
Marisha: You know, can we just buzz by the front foyer, and then we'll find my friends, and then we'll all be like, hey, those are my-- It'll be fine.
Orion: I think that's where you're going.
Matt: He leads you down the stairway to an area where it opens up into a small courtyard, takes you to the right of the courtyard into a central chamber, where the rest of Vox Machina is currently being led.
Laura: Keyleth!
Orion: Do I see her?
Matt: Yeah, you guys all see her being led in, in cuffs, essentially.
Orion: Seriously? Again?
Travis: What did you do?
Laura: Again, Keyleth?
Orion: Your Highness, what is your problem?
Ashley: Oh. She's with us. She's with us, she was just outside, we got in before.
Travis: No, we don't know who she is.
Taliesin: Actually, can we have a few minutes to discuss this?
Marisha: Shut up, Grog!
Matt: At this point, Kima turns and says, "She's with me."
Laura: Oh.
Matt: And both the Scalebearers go, "Lady Kima, I am so sorry." And they go ahead and take the cuffs off real fast and pull the spear back and step back.
Ashley: Wow.
Laura: Yeah, you listen to Lady Kima.
Orion: The classic.
Marisha: The classic.
Orion: The classic handcuff wrist twist.
Marisha: Ouch.
Liam: Hardass. (laughter)
Marisha: Yeah, I'm with her.
Matt: They back off and bow deeply and escort themselves off, embarrassed.
Marisha: Did you guys see that?
Ashley: That was cool.
Orion: I nudge Grog.
Travis: That was cool. You were arrested.
Orion: Grog, Grog, I'm nudging you.
Travis: You hadn't done anything.
Taliesin: I knew you had it in you.
Marisha: I'm starting to feel so hardcore.
Orion: I'm just nudging you.
Travis: Oh, okay.
Orion: Because Kima did something super hot.
Taliesin: You need a tattoo.
Marisha: I do need a tattoo.
Travis: I know, I noticed. She doesn't love me, though.
Laura: She does, Grog.
Travis: No, not yet.
Matt: All right. Scalebearer Yonn continues to lead you through this main chamber. And this chamber, like I said, it's the temple. It's strange, because most temples you've seen to Bahamut or many other deities are extravagant or are, you know, built with a modern-day sense of architecture. This is a very plain, simple stone fortress. It's hard to grasp what time it was built, but just the smell itself seems very ancient. There's a scent of dust and age, and functionality to its construct. But there's still a sense of power to it. Especially you, Pike, where you're sensitive to divine energy. This whole place is humming with it. Even though it's not the kind you're used to connecting with. This is-- When they say this is a holy place, you can feel it.
Laura: Is everything okay, Pike?
Ashley: It's just-- there's a lot of holiness here. (laughter)
Orion: I would imagine.
Marisha: Oh.
Sam: On a scale from one to five, five being super holy--
Ashley: Probably six.
Sam: Whoa.
Laura: Whoa.
Marisha: (gasps)
Orion: That's extra holy.
Marisha: This temple goes to six.
Ashley: This temple, I mean this--
Orion: (laughs) This temple goes to six.
Ashley: Just this whole land in particular. I mean there's a lot, there's a lot here, but--
Orion: That is good, though.
Ashley: Yes, good.
Sam: Do you need a moment? Do you need to sit down? Do you need me to hold you?
Ashley: I think I'm okay to keep going.
Laura: All right.
Ashley: But maybe later. We'll see. If I get a little tired.
Matt: At which you feel a nudge at your side and it's an armored elbow from Kima, saying, "If you wouldn't mind holding off on the fraternizing in the temple of Bahamut, I would really appreciate it."
Marisha: Oh, that's right.
Sam: Message understood.
Matt: At which point Scalebearer Yonn is now at the second set of double doors and he presents his holy symbol above his chest, it glows a second, and what was originally just smooth stone doors, you see a divine glow and the symbol of Bahamut you saw at the front of the temple appear for a moment, and then as it vanishes the two doors open on their own into a central worship chamber. This is a much larger domed room. It looks like it goes up about 80 feet to the top of the ceiling, and the dome itself has what looks like an extremely ancient, detailed drawing, like Sistine Chapel-style, the tale of the entirety of creation. You see all the elemental planes represented in the corners, the theoretical corners, where corners would be in a domed room. You can see a crude representation of how all the planes lay over each other, you can see the Astral Plane, you can see where the Nine Hells would exist, and the Abyss itself, and in the center there's the Prime Material Plane, and across it you see a giant image of the great platinum dragon Bahamut drawn in all of his glory, currently snapping down on one of the throats of a multi-headed dragon. This other dragon, with five different heads of five different chromatic colors, and this struggle between what you know to be Bahamut and Tiamat.
Travis: Tiamat?
Matt: Tiamat.
Laura: Is that the bad one?
Matt: You gather.
Liam: That is the baddest one.
Laura: I mean, I know that because I know a lot about dragons.
Matt: Indeed.
Marisha: Whoa. Do I see or learn anything about the elemental planes that I didn't know before?
Matt: Not from the artwork. It's very pretty.
Marisha: Ah, so pretty.
Orion: I take it all in and I'm reminded of one of the museums at home.
Matt: And actually, you've seen this art piece in a book. It's been a long time, but you know that this has been studied before and exists somewhere in Draconia, the tome that talks about this exact temple.
Travis: A book?
Marisha: We just made cave drawings, I don't--
Sam: That's those square things.
Orion: The square things with all the paper leaves in them and squiggles.
Travis: Right.
Laura: Is Tiamat still alive? Is he still around?
Orion: I read a lot of those. Can't put my finger on it.
Matt: At which point both Yonn and Kima and the Scalebearers kind of turn to you with a look of-- kind of understanding that you don't quite know, but also the fear and the knowledge that-- they don't say anything, they just give you a look that says, yes, very much so.
Laura: Oh. I mean. (nervous laugh) Tiamat's still around, huh?
Orion: Unfortunately, yes.
Matt: They continue walking.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: Now, the floor of this chamber, which is a very simple stone, you can see there are small sculptures, each one representing some sort of a humanoid entity dressed in similar robes to the other envoys and members of this temple that you've encountered thus far. Some of them are in full armor, some are wearing just robes, and they're very, very old. Some of them seem a little more recent, and you gather these each have some sort of cultural or religious significance to this temple. However, one of these is not a statue. In the center of this worship chamber, which is strangely, eerily quiet, there is one humanoid that turns to the rest of you. What you see before you is a slender, elven male draped in long, white robes that drag a few feet behind his form across the ground. He has jet-- not jet, stark-white hair that is slicked back against his head, no facial hair, frail but very handsome features. Elves, when they age, they age very gracefully--
Laura: Yeah we do.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: -- and from the look of most elves you've seen, this is a very old elf that has aged very gracefully. He turns to the rest of you and you see across his neck a very, very well-crafted, intricate series of draconic symbols that finishes with a giant emblem of Bahamut himself. His voice rings out and echoes throughout the hallway as you approach, each footstep echoing as you get closer. "Welcome, everyone, to the Platinum Sanctuary. I am called Highbearer Vord."
Laura: Oh, right.
Matt: "Keeper of this most holy of places. I received word from a disciple of mine--" At which Kima has now stepped forward, and bows, kneels before him and says, "Your holiness." At which he looks down with a smile. "Ah, Kima. I am pleased to see you. It has been a long time, my disciple." He looks up to the rest of the group. "I understand you carry something of terrible omen. Let us discuss how to be rid of it. Please. Present the container."
Laura: Right here?
Matt: The Scalebearers step forward and set the container on the ground. They go to reach for it and he goes, "No no no. Do not open it." And he kind of takes a second and holds his symbol to his chest and closes his eyes, and you can see this kind of divine glow pulse off of him for a second.
Marisha: Kima, what's happening?
Matt: She goes, "Shh, shh."
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: The box begins to pulse with the divine light as well, and then suddenly vanishes and he kind of (gasps) catches his breath. "It is as you said. This must be sealed immediately."
Orion: Well, yes.
Marisha: Yeah-huh. We could have just told you that.
Matt: He gives a look to the rest of the group here, and you can see there's a noticeable bead of sweat he kind of wipes off his forehead. "I just needed to confirm that this was not some haphazardly constructed fake or some other artifact mistaken for such a horn, but we indeed have within our presence one of the Horns of Orcus, and this does not bode well."
Laura: (whistles)
Matt: "Thankfully--"
Laura: Are you guys-- oh, sorry.
Matt: "No, please. What do you want to say?"
Laura: I was just wondering. You've had one of these before, yes?
Matt: "No, but we know that these exist. A few of us do; the knowledge itself has been lost to time intentionally. It was brought to my attention, and through discussions with the Council that sent you on this journey, that this would be the safest place to seal such an artifact, and amongst all our other options, as of this time, I see no other choice. So. What's been proposed. Allow me to explain to you the plan. One of our most divine relics of our most beloved protector Bahamut was kept deep beneath this temple, within the mountain we rest against. The Star of Exaltation, a crystal born from the tear Bahamut shed for the sacrifices his first devoted made in the Great War of the Beginnings, the Dawn War. This item was unfortunately lost nearly 300 years ago, giving the last of its power to protect this very Vasselheim. The intervention it brought from our great deity expended and left the artifact destroyed. Since the chamber that held this Star, a blessed and ever-watched nexus beneath the gaze of the Great Platinum Dragon Himself, has gone empty, we've tended to it. We've kept it fairly well-watched and in the state it was originally constructed for. And we think no greater location to seal such a deeply-rooted evil exists within our spheres of influence or any other. Unfortunately, the last time the chamber was cleansed and prepared was some 15 years ago. Our curate tasked one of our own Scalebearers--" And he looks over towards Yonn, who sheepishly backs away. "-- was tasked with preparing it for your arrival, and the artifact's, and it was found that the lower chambers have been infested with some manner of foul subterranean spider creature."
Marisha: Oh, man.
Matt: "Our Scalebearer fled." At which point Yonn leaves the entire conversation and exits the room.
Ashley: (quietly) Excuse me.
Sam: Yonn.
Matt: You hear Kima kind of give a spit in his direction.
Matt: "But not before initiating the vault's defenses." (sighs) "So thus, I ask you to complete your journey into the Hall of the Exalt below, clear out these meager beasts, and guide your reliquary into the vault chamber to seal it for good."
Orion: Will we have to contend with the defense systems as well?
Matt: "Not all of them, but apparently in his haste to escape and defend himself, he set a few of them to aid his escape."
Laura: Great. (shouts) Good job, Yonn!
Marisha: Thanks, Yonn.
Matt: You hear no response other than the pitter-patter of steps.
Sam: Why does he still work here?
Travis: (laughs) Right?
Orion: (laughs) Very good question.
Taliesin: Would you like to speak to his manager?
Sam: Does he have tenure or something? Is it a union thing?
Matt: "He's been with us for many, many years, and he has great heart and devotion. Though addled may be his mind, he does bring much to the temple."
Marisha: He has seniority.
Sam: All right.
Marisha: So wait, you said you lost the Crystal of Exaltation during the War of--
Matt: "It was destroyed during a siege of the city."
Marisha: During the War of what? Beginnings?
Matt: "The War of the Beginnings."
Marisha: The War of the Beginnings.
Taliesin: That was close.
Marisha: And how long ago was this War of the Beginnings?
Matt: "Well that, oh, I'm sorry. It was created in the War of the Beginnings."
Marisha: It was created then?
Matt: "It was lost in a battle, a siege of the city of Vasselheim 300 years ago."
Laura: 300 years?
Marisha: Called what? During what war?
Taliesin: The Siege of the Metal Champions.
Matt: "That had no particular name."
Marisha: Oh.
Laura: Oh.
Marisha: Just a siege.
Laura: It was just a thing?
Matt: "It was one of the sieges and there was--"
Sam: The Battle Where the Thing Was Lost.
Matt: Yes. There it is.
Orion: Right. (laughter)
Liam: Vord. Hi. Question, please. We'll clear out your basement, that's not a problem. I'd like to understand how you plan to protect this horn, how you plan to keep it out of the hands of entities who would use it for ill--
Laura: That big scary creature living out in the woods. Sorry, brother.
Liam: Then how-- that's fine.
Matt: He glances towards you and says, "Oh, that is but one of many."
Laura: Huh.
Matt: "Let it be known that this temple is extremely well-guarded. It is continuously under the gaze of our patron deity and while some of the defenses have been put in place for your arrival, if the entirety of the vault is triggered, there is nothing that will make its way there unannounced."
Travis: Good sell.
Sam: Are we to carry the box down as we journey into the dungeons below, or are we to leave it here while we go clear out the basement?
Matt: "The Scalebearers will bring it with you."
Sam: Okay.
Matt: "Keep them safe."
Sam: Keep them safe? Oh. All right. We've got enough to worry about keeping ourselves safe.
Marisha: So just to get one thing clear, and I mean no (clears throat) disrespect, but how was the crystal lost 300 years ago, if it was in this chamber? So this chamber has been broken into before?
Matt: "We can enter the chamber under very specific circumstances. We, at the time, requested the use of the Star of Exaltation as a divine focus--"
Marisha: Oh.
Matt: "-- a ritual that required the intervention of Bahamut to keep the city safe."
Marisha: Oh, so someone brought it out and then was clumsy and lost it.
Laura: And then it was lost.
Sam: And you know what--
Matt: "It wasn't clumsy and lost. It was used as a focus in the ritual."
Marisha: Oh.
Matt: "It was by the will of Bahamut Himself that the Star no longer was required to exist on this plane."
Orion: She gets it. She gets it.
Matt: "It served its purpose."
Marisha: So it was destroyed.
Laura: Lost, as in--
Orion: Like not around.
Marisha: You should change your verbage here.
Taliesin: Charisma of ten, ladies and gentlemen. Charisma of ten.
Laura: While everybody's been talking, can I have used my Primeval Awareness to see within six miles if there's any dragons around us?
Sam: (sings) Primeval Awareness, yeah.
Matt: So you take a moment and kind of zone out for a second. You do not sense any dragons in the immediate vicinity of the six-mile radius of the city, no.
Laura: Oh, okay. All right. That's all I wanted to know.
Sam: (sings) Primeval Awareness, over.
Travis: Can we drop off this box, or what? I want to go see the fire dancers.
Sam: Yeah, let's go.
Laura: No, we need to go-- we also need to-- are we going to do that now?
Sam: Let's just go.
Laura: Go clear out the basement?
Sam: Yeah, it's the morning, still. Okay? Let's go.
Orion: Are we all potioned up, are we all--
Marisha: Yeah, we're good.
Ashley: We're all healed.
Orion: We're good?
Laura: Let's clear out the basement.
Travis: There's nothing down there, right?
Laura: Yeah? I mean, you want us to do it now, yeah?
Taliesin: I'm not-- I haven't been paying attention.
Matt: "Lest this artifact be left longer in the open, which I would not be comfortable with."
Laura: No, neither would I.
Matt: "I would prefer this be taken care of immediately."
Travis: Yeah, we'll do it now.
Sam: Let's go do it.
Taliesin: We've got a bear.
Laura: I mean, obviously we want the Horn taken care of, but--
Travis: Here we go.
Laura: -- you know, we're taking care of a problem for you, too.
Sam: Oh, here it goes.
Travis: Here it comes.
Sam: Here it goes.
Ashley: Get it, girl.
Travis: Son of a bitch.
Ashley: Get it, girl. Get it.
Liam: The holiest place on the map.
Ashley: Yeah. (laughs)
Laura: The holiest place?
Sam: Haggle with the pope.
Taliesin: Shaking down the pope.
Matt: "You want a monetary reward--"
Laura: I was just wondering.
Matt: "-- for your aid."
Laura: I'm not asking.
Matt: "The temple can provide a sum of three thousand gold pieces."
Laura: Per party member, yes?
Matt: "Entirely. Three thousand gold pieces for your trouble on this journey." At which Kima steps forward and says, "Highbearer, we do not need to take money from--"
Laura: We don't want money, of course not. I mean, I--
Sam: But think of the good we could do with that money, giving alms to the poor back home where we are.
Laura: Yes, spreading the word of Bahamut where we go.
Ashley: Are we going to return for it?
Sam: We do a lot of charity work and it would be well-received back home. (under his breath) In our Keep.
Matt: You make a persuasion roll. You make a deception roll.
Sam: Deception?
Laura: It's not a deception, we really will--
Travis: No, no. Only one of you.
Matt: (laughs) No, he won't.
Taliesin: The ladies of the evening really, really do need the money, apparently.
Marisha: (laughs) No, he won't.
Travis: What did you roll, Sam?
Sam: A 30.
Orion: (laughs)
Laura: Oh. That's really good because I rolled a 19. Wait!
Marisha: A 30?
Ashley: No, you didn't.
Laura: Yeah, I did.
Liam: Three-zero?
Sam: Three-zero! I have a +13 for deception. (laughs)
Travis: Really? (laughter)
Taliesin: That explains so much.
Travis: We've got to get you deceiving more.
Marisha: (laughs) We've got to get you deceiving more.
Travis: Oh my god.
Marisha: You should lie more. It's good.
Taliesin: Lie to me, Pinocchio. Lie to me.
Matt: "Three thousand gold, at your disposal, to bring about and to share in the prosperity of your people back home."
Sam: Amen. (laughter)
Matt: "Once the artifact is delivered and sealed."
Sam: From one holy man to another, I think we've struck a deal. Let's go.
Orion: Burt Reynolds, you've done it again.
Travis: Amen. (laughter)
Matt: As you all turn, Kima goes, "I'll show you to the vault room."
Laura: Are you going to come with us, Kima?
Matt: "Yes, I'm coming with you."
Laura: Oh, good.
Matt: She glances over at you. (sarcastically) "Shall we, holy man?" (laughter)
Sam: Why yes, my sister, lead the way.
Marisha: Sister. (laughter)
Matt: As you guys are walking out of the chamber, the doors close behind, she turns to you and says, "Is that why you were blessed with such a temporarily swollen appendage before?"
Sam: I don't know how the lord works, it's mysterious. (laughter)
Matt: "Let us be on our way." She kind of walks off, flustered and frustrated. You guys are led down two layers. This actual temple recedes further and further into the mountain, until you're led into what seems to almost be a storage basement. It's a very musty smell. It's old earth--
Orion: It's dank down here.
Matt: Yeah, it kind of has that moldy scent to it. There are five guards stationed in this storage vicinity, and as you approach, they all stand up. They're all still wearing ceremonial armor, two of which you can see are really well-armed, one with a greatsword and one with a longsword at the side. They look pretty prestigious to be assigned to a basement this terrible.
Laura: At ease, soldiers.
Matt: "Of course, of course."
Matt: And they step aside. Kima steps forward and takes her holy symbol and removes it from around her neck. She looks at the wall for a second, then places it into what you didn't see before was some sort of a slight recess in the wood. It flashes with divine energy, and suddenly the wood illusion is dispelled and what you see before you is a stone doorway that begins to slowly shift to the side and open up into a staircase.
Laura: Are we going to find any of these defenses right away, or what?
Matt: Kima kind of gives you a look, shrugs, and, "To be perfectly honest, I have not been within the vault."
Taliesin: Well.
Ashley: Okay.
Marisha: Huh. Is there a blueprint somewhere?
Travis: Liam, you're up. I mean, (clears throat) Vax.
Sam: I thought he was Vex.
Liam: Sorry, my communication earring was a little low there. What was said?
Laura: Check for some traps, brother.
Liam: You got it. You got it. I'm glad to get out of upstairs, I mutter to my sister, because the decor up there was shit.
Marisha: (laughs)
Liam: That is... high. That was a 26.
Matt: 26 for?
Laura: Traps in the stairway.
Liam: Just traps.
Matt: Perception for traps? All right. As you slowly begin to descend the stairway, you keep an eye out across the staircase itself and any of the surrounding walls. The stonework here is also extremely ancient, marking probably a similarity to the most ancient of buildings you've seen in this city. This subterranean structure is probably one of the older parts of this temple. You don't see anything trap-wise. The stairway eventually comes to an end into a chamber about 50 feet by 50 feet. It's very, very low light. There appear to be--
Orion: Oh! Light!
Matt: Okay. The brief moment of light, before your eyes can really focus in, there's a flash of light at the end of Tiberius's staff, and the room actually gets harder to see. You see there is a thick white mist that just kind of hangs in the air throughout the entirety of this room.
Orion: Oh! (fssh)
Marisha: It's like having your high-beams on when it's foggy.
Orion: I de-cast Light.
Matt: Okay. You dispel the Light.
Orion: What is all of this poppycock?
Matt: Your eyes adjust a little bit, and you can see what looks like-- this room, for the most part, doesn't have any sort of details. There are a couple of sconces with low, flickering light that are embedded in the side of the walls of this 50 foot by 50 foot room. It's about 20 feet high.
Marisha: I go ahead and I do a little Wind Gust and I go, (blows air).
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Down the hall, to clear out the fog.
Matt: Which spell is this?
Marisha: Gust of Wind.
Matt: Okay, so you cast Gust of Wind. The mist that was filling this room blows out the other side and you can see, the room is a little more visible now.
Orion: Oh, very good. Light!
Matt: There's still a light mist on the sides, but the center of the walkway is clear for a second. You see now in the center of the room what were initially just dark spots in the mist, there are two pillars that are attached from ceiling to floor, roughly about 20 feet apart from each other, kind of in the center of each side of the room. Each pillar is solid gray stone with what looks like intricately carved small dragons almost curling and wrapping around the statues. Each one of their heads kind of turned, mouth opened kind of angrily in different directions.
Laura: Can I check for traps or see if there's anything--
Travis: You should re-cast that.
Matt: You guys, both of you guys make perception checks.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: That's a 19.
Laura: Oh, he already rolled. Look at him.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Perception?
Matt: Mm-hm.
Laura: 25.
Matt: So looking about, Liam-- Sorry, Vax. You notice the base of each one of these pillars is not flush with the floor. There is a slight gap, meaning there is some sort of a rotation or a pivot to these pillars.
Laura: Hm.
Matt: You notice that these mouths of the dragons seem to be what's creating this white mist, and as time progresses, the mist begins to refill up the room rather quickly.
Laura: All right. Do I notice any-- does it seem-- Well, without touching it. Any kind of poisonous in nature, anything like that?
Matt: Looks like mist.
Ashley: Should we run through?
Orion: While we're standing around, I'd like to reassign the earrings to Vax, Grog, and Scanlan.
Laura: I don't get one anymore? You're taking it off of me right now?
Travis: Yeah, he's giving it to me. (laughs)
Orion: Because we're always together, we're always kind of in the back together, and they're always kind of like up in the fray, so--
Travis: That's true, I do wander off easily.
Sam: Oh, is that you, Grog?
Travis: (laughs) Hi. I know.
Orion: She's always kind of like in the middle. She's the wild card. He's always in the back with us also because we're the ranged dudes.
Laura: All right.
Marisha: Wait, do I still have one?
Taliesin: I'm putting down my mask, just in case this is awful.
Matt: Okay. You guys are still at the stairway. The mist has now filled the room again in front of you.
Laura: Ugh. Should we try breathing it and see what happens?
Sam: Yeah, sure.
Marisha: My Gust of Wind--
Laura: I just reach my arm into the mist and just see--
Marisha: My Gust of Wind lasts up to one minute, by the way, so I can keep--
Laura: Oh, maybe we should just not touch the mist and go straight through the room.
Marisha: I'm just airbending.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: You've been wanting to say that.
Laura: So you can blow it and we just walk through?
Matt: As this conversation has continued-- let's say about 30 or 40 seconds has gone by in transferring the earrings and the discussion, so there's still a little bit of-- there is a clear pathway in the center there.
Marisha: Not much time.
Sam: Let's go.
Laura: Should we go?
Sam: Let's go through.
Laura: Let's go before it gets back.
Travis: Yeah.
Ashley: I start running.
Taliesin: Yes, go, run.
Liam: Hustle, hustle.
Laura: Go, go, go.
Matt: Okay. You all start running through. You're running through with them and keeping concentration on your spell.
Orion: Vax, check for traps!
Sam: Vorak, Desona, come!
Laura: I perception-checked the room. It didn't seem like there was anything.
Orion: Oh, are we good? Okay.
Liam: I'm running ten feet ahead of everybody. I rolled a big old one. (laughter)
Sam: He tripped.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Wow.
Matt: You continue forward, and as you're rushing through the group, not paying attention, you gently hit the edge of the mist barrier with your shoulder, as you're rushing to the side instinctually to stealth along the wall. As your shoulder breaks the mist--
Liam: Bring it.
Matt: All of the dragon mouths burst into bright fiery flame and begin spinning rapidly in the room. The people that are in the center running through right now, which include Keyleth, Scanlan, Tiberius, and Pike, all of you guys make dexterity saving throws.
Ashley: What?!
Sam: Whoa!
Marisha: Son of a bitch.
Laura: Vax!
Sam: Way to go, Vax.
Taliesin: Teacher, teacher, did I have time to finish my book?
Matt: You have.
Taliesin: Yes!
Ashley: Dexterity check?
Liam: You said dex save? Dex save?
Matt: Dex save, yes.
Orion: 18.
Marisha: It's all right.
Matt: 18?
Orion: Mm-hm.
Matt: All right. Hmm. Scanlan?
Sam: Oh! 13.
Matt: 13.
Ashley: Three.
Matt: All right.
Liam: 26.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Also 13.
Ashley: But I'm short! I'm so short. They would--
Laura: Super duper short.
Travis: Just going to hit you in the face.
Ashley: They would just flow right over me.
Matt: Okay. As the flames just burst out throughout the room, tearing into the air with this reddish-white flame, both Vax and Tiberius manage to try and dodge out of the way as best they can, only receiving, each of them--
Laura: Well, all Vax has to do is roll, because he's already on the freaking ground.
Matt: 12 points of fire damage to each of you.
Marisha: To who?
Liam: Well, rogue with Uncanny Dodge, for a successful save gets zero damage.
Matt: You take none.
Orion: And I take half.
Matt: So you take zero damage, you take 12.
Orion: So I take half. Is it 24 total?
Matt: No, 24 total. You take half.
Orion: Oh.
Marisha: The rest of us?
Matt: Scanlan, Keyleth, and Pike all take 24 points of fire damage.
Sam: Ugh.
Ashley: I got 24 points.
Marisha: Ouch.
Orion: Oh! My robe.
Sam: Ow. Are we still moving?
Liam: Tuck and roll.
Orion: Are you getting used to your new foot, Vax?
Liam: I'm back!
Matt: You guys move through-- that's the four of you guys. Percy, Grog, and Vex and Trinket are all behind, as they watch the flames burst out and they all kind of stop their inertia, and now the mist slowly fills up the room.
Travis: Whoa.
Matt: About the time that your spell wears off for the first minute.
Marisha: Okay. (weak chuckle) Let's move?
Travis: It fills up the room?
Laura: We're still in the room.
Sam: The three of us, you're still back.
Matt: You guys are split right now, with the bearers, the Scalebearers.
Laura: Oh, they're coming with us, they're like coming with us through the whole thing?
Matt: They're with you, yeah.
Marisha: Wait, hang on.
Laura: Keyleth, blow the smoke again. Blow the mist away. If you can.
Marisha: Burning another spell slot. All right, here we go.
Matt: Oh, no.
Ashley: We run through it.
Laura: And now we run.
Marisha: Oh, no. He doesn't care.
Travis: He doesn't care.
Taliesin: No, we walk gently through.
Matt: Burning the second spell slot. (wind noise) The mist clears itself. Now that you're aware of what it does, you're very careful to direct it towards the center and leave an open path. The rest of you rush through, including the Scalebearers, in the minute you have. The wind is blowing in your face from Keyleth's position. It's kind of like stepping into the force of a hurricane. You have to put your hand in front of you to see--
Laura: (shouts) Your breath smells pretty good, though, Keyleth.
Marisha: Thanks, I tried to get a little of a sage thing.
Ashley: Sagey rosemary?
Travis: Very minty.
Marisha: A little orange blossom. It's nice.
Orion: I'm going to Prestidigitate a tiny air shield in front of me.
Liam: When I bite into a York Peppermint Patty--
Marisha: It's also pure oxygen, so we could get a little buzz.
Matt: It's a very, very tiny shield. It protects this much of your face.
Orion: That's what I'm doing.
Matt: Your eyes are fine. The rest of your robes are still (windblown cloth sounds).
Orion: Yeah.
Matt: You guys all make your way across the room. You then finish your spell and the mist immediately fills up and completely obfuscates that room behind you once more.
Sam: One down!
Marisha: We made it!
Sam: 20 rooms to go.
Matt: You're now in what is a ten-foot-wide chamber for an additional-- a tunnel or hallway-- for another 20 feet before it opens up into another room, but there is no light source in there whatsoever. You, with Light on your staff again, you kind of step ahead to--
Laura: Do you want to shoot an arrow in?
Orion: Oh, would you like to see?
Laura: Yeah, let's do it.
Orion: Yeah, very good. Light.
Matt: All right, so as Vex releases her arrow, light bursts forth from the wooden shaft as it arcs across the room. As it does, you can see the room. As compared to the previous one that was square in shape, this one is circular. It is almost a cylinder in its design. Go ahead and make a perception check.
Laura: 16.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: 29.
Laura: He's better.
Matt: Okay. You notice that across this floor of the circular room, there are these circles marked across the entirety of the surface here.
Laura: Great. Those are probably traps.
Travis: I bet those are fun.
Laura: Pressure plates, maybe?
Orion: Okay, or sigils or-- maybe we have to activate them or not activate them?
Travis: I have darkvision, now with a range of 60 feet.
Sam: Can we see to the other side of the room?
Matt: Hm?
Sam: Can we see all the way to the other side of the room?
Matt: Opposite side, there is actually a much larger opening and what looks to be another staircase that descends. This one is 20 feet wide. It's a very wide staircase from what you're used to seeing, especially in these structures.
Sam: And I'm hoping there's no door.
Matt: No doorway. It's open. It just descends down below. And the only way you can tell is that the arrow arcs across--
Liam: Everybody stand back. I'm going to click my Boots of Haste--
Laura: What? Shouldn't we throw something onto one of the pressure plates first and see what it does?
Liam: Yeah, me. I'm going to click my Boots of Haste, I'm going to run, I'm going to do a sort of a running roll, land on the closest circle and wait for half a tick and then roll off of it.
Laura: Are you kidding me?!
Orion: What are you doing?
Travis: No, no, let him do it! Let him do it.
Matt: So as you guys are about to go, "Wait!", Vax is already off. Clicks the boots. The arcane magic of the Boots of Haste kick into his body. He leaps forward. Make an acrobatics check.
Liam: Okay. 22.
Travis: I hope you get your eyebrows burned off.
Matt: All right. You leap forward. Your hand touches the first circle in the room. As it does, there's suddenly a large shift in the room. All of a sudden, the hand which you had purchase on slides out from underneath you. You catch yourself on your feet, but now suddenly there's a loud grinding sound and the entire room seems to be shifting, moving, spinning in its own right, and you instinctually feel something moving towards you very quickly. Make a dexterity saving throw, Liam.
Sam: Oh, boy.
Laura: Vax!
Orion: I click my earring. You're an idiot, Vax.
Liam: I'm going to use Luck because that blew. And that's a natural 20.
Sam: Oh!
Marisha: Oh!
Ashley: Oh snap.
Orion: Yeah, 20!
Ashley: Yeah, 20.
Marisha: Yeah!
Matt: So. You barely manage to move out of the way before that circular portion of the ground skyrockets up like a pillar-- one very similar to the one that you created for your spell-- slams into the ceiling with a heavy thud, retracts, and continues again. In fact, looking around you, all of them in the room are now, at different levels, pistoning into the ceiling. (repeated crashing rock noises) This entire room is slowly rotating and there's just a series of pillars mashing into the ceiling.
Marisha: Oh, it's like a mini-game.
Matt: You have to make an acrobatics check to try and get through this now because you have very little space to move.
Liam: Okay. (laughter)
Liam: I'm going to use Luck again.
Matt: (laughs)
Liam: That is 18.
Matt: 18. You manage to make your way halfway across the room, dodging out of the way as these pillars are slamming and retracting. Kind of use the pattern of when they're pulling down from the ceiling, but they're moving very fast. One of them manages to catch you underneath your ankle. Go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw again.
Liam: That is 15.
Matt: 15. All right.
Travis: Uh-oh.
Ashley: You're going to hurt your foot again, Vax.
Matt: It catches you, takes you off of your balance, and it rockets you towards the ceiling. You manage to pull most of your body out of the way in time, but it still catches the back of your shoulder blade. You take 40 points of crushing damage.
Travis: Yes! (cackles)
Sam: Ohhh!
Marisha: Holy shit.
Matt: As you are slammed into the ceiling. And as the pillar retracts, you roll off with a heavy wheeze of pain. (groan) Catching onto your feet again. Make one more acrobatics check.
Marisha: Oh my god. If you get crushed to death--
Travis: (laughs) On Skype.
Liam: That's a 23.
Matt: What was that?
Travis: 23.
Matt: 23.
Liam: I'm like an acrobatic cheetah. 23.
Matt: 23. You manage to-- in the severe pain you're feeling, you can tell there's probably some serious bruising in there and you probably broke a couple of ribs, but you manage to just barely dodge and leap out of the way, making your way across the room to where the staircase descends, out of the immediate danger.
Sam: Ah.
Laura: Jeez.
Matt: The rest of you now are standing on the opposite side of this room, which is currently a rotating grinding mill.
Travis: That was great.
Liam: I'd like to check if there's any kind of device or anything on this side--
Orion: Okay, hold on a second, Vax, just chill out for a minute. We all just took a little damage this last time.
Liam: I'm just trying a perception check.
Sam: He's checking. He's checking.
Matt: All right, make a perception check.
Marisha: For a lever or something.
Travis: For a switch.
Liam: 25.
Sam: 25.
Matt: 25. You can see, in the ceiling, in the very, very center of the room, precariously placed right where one of the pillars in the center slams into the ceiling, there appears to be a small quarter-sized hole, gold piece-sized hole in the ceiling.
Ashley: Yeah, come on, Vex.
Taliesin: Race you for it.
Matt: It's in the middle of the room. In the ceiling, where--
Liam: Is there a clear shot of it or is there (bang bang bang) going on?
Matt: Oh, no, it's still going. The pillars are still slamming into the roof. And that one hole you see is right where one of the pillars slams into the roof. You only see it intermittently when the pillar retracts.
Marisha: Go, sharpshooters, go.
Taliesin: You first, or me?
Laura: Well, let's try this first because you might just break it down completely.
Taliesin: Oh, very well.
Laura: You are much more powerful than I am, Percy.
Travis: Yeah, ladies first, perhaps.
Taliesin: Ladies first.
Laura: All right, can I try to shoot an arrow into the little hole?
Matt: You can. This is a hard shot because it's at an angle now. We're talking, this is Robin Hood-level split-the-arrow. Because you have to hit it and then ricochet upward to see if it'll have any effect.
Laura: Oh, jeez Louise.
Travis: Well, get up there.
Marisha: I place my hands on her shoulders--
Travis: Can you inspire?
Sam: I can inspire her.
Marisha: And I give her Enhance Ability.
Sam: Ooh, Enhance Ability.
Laura: Okay, what does that mean?
Marisha: You have advantage on-- oh, ability checks. It's just ability checks.
Matt: Ability checks. It's not going to help for an attack.
Laura: This is, what, an attack?
Marisha: Never mind.
Matt: This would be an attack.
Travis: I would like to offer my beard for a rub of good luck.
Laura: Thanks, Grog.
Matt: As you offer the beard, it tears off.
Travis: What?
Ashley: Oh, no!
Travis: What did you do?!
Laura: You know what, I'm going to tie this to the arrow. It's going to give it really good luck.
Sam: That seems like it's aerodynamically--
Laura: I'm not actually going to tie it to the arrow.
Taliesin: Okay!
Laura: I'm just going to tuck it--
Matt: Mark in your inventory, you now have Fake Grog Rope Beard.
Travis: Is that a -1 to my confidence now?
Matt: (laughs) It will come into play.
Travis: (cries)
Orion: So the goal is to shoot an arrow into this-- like the Death Star?
Matt: Essentially, yeah.
Laura: Yeah.
Orion: Okay, cool. As I see her ready, I'm going to hold up my hand with my ring and point it right at that hole.
Matt: To do--
Laura: So you can deflect it if I--
Orion: I got your back.
Laura: All right, thanks, Tiberius.
Orion: Get it, Vex.
Matt: All right, and you're going to--
Sam: I'm going to inspire her. With inspiration. I'll sing, (sings) Ooh ooh, shut up and shoot that hole! Your arrow is my destiny, yeah I said,
All: (sings) Ooh ooh, shut up and shoot that hole! (laughs)
Matt: And with that, you feel your focus, you wait, you breathe in, you breathe out, you breathe in, you breathe out in pattern with the slamming of the piston against the ceiling.
Laura: Oh, I'm so nervous.
Ashley: Get it, get it, get it, you're going to do it.
Matt: You let out all your breath and you hold, hold, hold, waiting between heartbeats, and then (twwt), release. Go ahead and make your attack roll.
Laura: I'm going to roll the fancy one we got last week.
Liam: Get it, girl. Get it.
Laura: All right. (laughs) Oh, no. Okay. I add my attack bonus?
Matt: Yes, you do.
Sam: Plus an inspiration.
Laura: Plus an inspiration dice?
Matt: Plus a d10.
Orion: Oh, shit.
Marisha: (whispering) It's so quiet.
Orion: I know.
Laura: Oh, that's awesome! Okay. 35. (yelling)
Travis: Good inspiration.
Matt: As you release the arrow, you see the pillars slamming. The pillar comes down just as the arrow crests over it, past another pillar that just barely manages to miss it by a segment.
Orion: I cast Telekinesis to swoop it up. (whoosh)
Sam: Oh, god.
Orion: Just to help and guide it.
Ashley: No, but it's already gone in.
Travis: We don't need it! We don't need it!
Laura: Oh, let me just see if I got it first!
Liam: She rolled a 35, we don't need shit.
Orion: It's going in there, anyway. I don't even have to roll.
Matt: So. As the pillar pulls down, the arrow goes cascading forward. Go ahead and make a d20 roll with the +5 modifier.
Orion: Sweet. That's 17.
Matt: 17? Okay. So as the arrow makes its way, it ricochets off the bottom edge of the actual hole and immediately bends itself upward, the shaft bending. As it begins to start heading up the hole, there's a sudden force of arcane energy that slams it even harder up into the top of this tiny little slit.
Travis: Yeah, good.
Matt: As it goes up there, you hear what sounds like a splintering of wood and metal. Then you hear metal grinding. You start seeing bits and chunks of grinding metal begin to pour out of the hole and the pillars begin to (scraping stone).
Laura: Hey.
Ashley: Yeah.
Travis: Nice shot!
Ashley: Yeah, Vex!
Matt: Eventually coming to a halt.
Marisha: A wrench in the machine.
Taliesin: I could have done it.
Laura: You totally could have done that.
Taliesin: I could have made that shot.
Sam: Next room's yours.
Taliesin: Yes, next room, next room's all mine.
Orion: That was one of those impossible things, right?
Matt: Pretty damn close to impossible.
Orion: I knew it.
Laura: Nice.
Marisha: (laughs) Pretty damn close to impossible.
Sam: All right, let's go across and heal our rogue.
Travis: Yeah, we walk across.
Laura: Yeah, all right.
Liam: As they come to the other side, I clutch my broken rib and injuredly hold a hand up and give a half-assed high-five to my sister. (grunts)
Laura: Good job getting slammed into the roof like that.
Liam: Yeah, you're welcome.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: So can we take a short rest to heal up and then also a short rest to take a short rest in real life?
Matt: You can. We're going to go ahead and stop here. You're now taking a short rest.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: You guys take a moment. If you want to go ahead and heal up using any of your hit dice, you're able to, Vax.
Marisha: I'm going to do that.
Sam: Me, too.
Matt: And on that note, we're going to go ahead and take our five-minute break here, guys.
Travis: Cool.
Sam: Five.
Matt: While the party takes a short rest, we're taking a five-minute rest. We've got to be done by ten tonight with the stream, so.
Sam: Let's do it.
Laura: Woo.
Matt: So we're going to take a five-minute break.
Sam: True five. True five.
Matt: Orion, if you want to go ahead and come over, we're going to go ahead and give you guys-- yes, sir?
Zac: Bring them on up.
Matt: Okay, yeah, so we're going to go ahead and introduce our guests and give them an overview of the charity that we have currently on the stream tonight.
Travis: That was great work, though.
Laura: Yes.
Marisha: Oh my god, I rolled two eights in a row.
Taliesin: Nice!
Marisha: That's awesome.
Matt: I'm going to pass this over to Orion.
Orion: Okay.
Matt: Come on over. Gonna enjoy my chickens.
Sam: Don't forget to go to Teespring and buy our T-shirts.
Laura: Oh, let-- no! We haven't even talked about it at all!
Matt: Yes! By the way, our T-shirts are on Teespring. We'll have six more days.
Sam: Six more days.
Marisha: They also just went up on our website, on critrole.com. So you can go to our website and find the link.
Matt: All right, guys, we'll see you in a little bit. Meanwhile, take it away.
Sam: I'm going to tweet the Teespring link right now.
Zac: Lucas, go fullscreen.
Marisha: Sam is tweeting it.
Orion: Give me that chair.
Zac: Cool. Are you good, man?
Orion: Yeah.
Zac: Sweet.
Orion: We had points. We had points. Are we standing for this?
Taylor: Yeah.
Orion: Tell me that for the chat thing. Hi, everybody! Orion Acaba here and Taylor Carol. This is our special guest. And he's with GameChanger, and he has a couple of things to say for this particular awesome charity that we are working with today with SquareEnix and the Deus Ex anniversary.
Taylor: Yeah.
Marisha: Taylor!
Taylor: Well, first of all, on behalf of GameChanger, I just want to say what a blast it is to be with you guys. Personally, I've never watched D&D before. You guys have made me a huge fan.
Orion: Yes.
Taylor: And, yeah. So a little bit of backstory about GameChanger. About nine years ago, I was diagnosed terminal form of cancer. I was given about two weeks left to live, but thankfully it's been a long two weeks. I'm totally healthy now. (cheers)
Taylor: Thank you. But when I was sick, the most incredible thing that I saw was the impact that video games had on the people and on the children that were fighting cancer and other rare diseases. And witnessing the incredible good of the game community of video games. My dad and I resolved to make an organization that used and capitalized on that incredible good of the video games, of the gaming community, to help those suffering from rare diseases. And so one year later, GameChanger charity was born, and we started out just collecting games from the incredible gaming community, giving them back to kids suffering from rare diseases. And seven years later it evolved into what we have now. Now we're sponsored with some incredible gaming organizations like Square. A huge thanks to them for partnering with us for this awesome campaign. But yeah, today we go into hospitals and do things called GameChanger days where we go and we bring food for the staff, for the families, for the kids suffering from rare diseases. We bring them gaming packages so they can bond together. We provide college scholarships, and we really just try and provide hope and inspiration-- the same hope and inspiration that games really provided me when I was sick.
Orion: Yeah. That's awesome. And we here at--
Taylor: Oh, thank you. No, thank you guys.
Orion: And we here at Critical Role really love organizations like yours, which is why when we started talking, it was such a nice partnership for you to come on and tell us about this organization. Tell everybody where they can find to help, if they wanted to send to GameChanger.
Taylor: Yeah, GameChanger. Yeah.
Orion: Yeah, where would they go for that, to check it out?
Taylor: To support GameChanger, to learn more about what we do, you can visit www.gamechangercharity.org, and if you go to our website, you can see our campaign with Deus Ex. You can go online and if you donate anything more than a dollar, you get a free copy, a director's cut--
Orion: Oh! Well, awesome. That's cool. I'll probably do that too. It sounds like it's pretty sweet. And I want to thank you, the rest, with all of us. I'm doing this because I'm currently fighting cancer. I have-- I don't have that bad of a trek to go through, but it is very inconvenient and painful, but hearing stories like you. I mean, you're 20. He has a beautiful singing voice. He's a singer. And you're going to Harvard, is that what's going on?
Taylor: I am, yeah, I'm a rising junior.
Orion: Stupid doctors, they don't know shit. But people like you inspire me, because up until a few months ago, I didn't need any of that kind of inspiration. So it's great, and your organization's great, so we just wanted to thank you for coming on and speaking with everybody and letting everybody know, and we'll be working together in the future, too, and we'll be doing lots of fun stuff, so yeah. Check these guys out, please.
Laura: Donate, donate.
Ashley: What are you studying at Harvard?
Taylor: I am an English concentrator.
Orion: Whoa.
Marisha: Nice.
Taylor: Yeah, yeah.
Laura: I don't even know what that means.
Orion: Hold on a second. Do you mean like you concentrate on English?
Taylor: (English accent) English primarily.
Orion: Oh, very good. Okay, cool. That's like my second language.
Taylor: You guys have to teach me better accents. I love all of your accents.
Orion: (laughs) Any other questions for our guest, guys?
Zac: I'd like to let everybody know, the mods all have access to the GameChanger command in the chatroom, so if you guys are watching and are not in the chat, just join the chat really quick and you guys will be able to get that link for the donation link to get Deus Ex and anything over a dollar and you get a copy of the game. We're going to go ahead and let that run all the way throughout the rebroadcast and throughout the weekend, so mods, just keep spamming that throughout the chat.
Laura: So donations tonight are going to GameChanger, yeah?
Orion: Yeah.
Zac: It's up to you guys whether or not you want 826LA to go to GameChanger because the link right now just goes to Critical Role, so it's up to you guys for where it goes from there.
Orion: So we can do that.
Laura: Awesome. I think donations tonight will definitely go to GameChanger, yeah.
Orion: Yeah, so that's what we'll do. Awesome!
Taylor: Thank you all.
Orion: Right now. That's the decision.
Taylor: Go team.
Marisha: Tell them it's the last day.
Orion: And this is our last day. Is that right?
Taylor: Yes, so this is the last day to get your copy--
Orion: For the Deus Ex thing.
Zac: Okay, then I will not let it run over the weekend.
Orion: Yeah. But again, dude, thank you for coming on.
Taylor: Hey, thank you.
Orion: And we'll break because I have to pee really bad. But thank you so much.
Taylor: Thank you.
Zac: So guys, just to be clear, all of your donations tonight will go towards GameChanger, but if you want a copy of the game, just go and donate a dollar on the link that we have access to in the chatroom. And just so you guys know, there will not be time for them to read messages tonight after the show. Lucas and I both have to catch a flight, so sorry. We'll get to them next time.
Taylor: Anything more than a dollar.
Zac: Anything more than a dollar, to be clear. Anything more than a dollar.
Ashley: Go donate. Just do it!
Zac: Listen to Ashley. We're also really close to another giveaway, guys. If you guys subscribe, I think we're only like ten away from another giveaway, a large giveaway, which is a signed Player's Handbook and a signed photo of the cast. And every 50 we'll do a giveaway until the show's over tonight. We will not be going late, so just keep in mind, guys, don't send Geek & Sundry messages upset that your message wasn't read. We'll get to it next time. We appreciate you guys donating and Lucas, go ahead and go to drop cam. Yeah, go drop cam. [break]
Matt: Welcome back.
Zac: I had a really quick announcement before we get back into the game. The winner is Paula Konito, so congratulations--
Marisha: Paula Konito!
Matt: Paula Konito, congrats!
Marisha: Paula Konito!
Zac: -- and I understand that we crashed their website for donations--
Matt: (laughs)
Ashley: What?
Zac: So congratulations, guys, for crashing the website, but what is not crashed is our donation link, so if you scroll down and click on the 826LA link, all of the donations that are made tonight they've said will go to GameChanger
Laura: Yeah, the portion of the donations that would normally go to 826LA tonight are going to go to GameChanger.
Zac: So just scroll down on the channel page, click on 826LA or the donate link that's being spammed in the chat room, and all of those donations will go to GameChanger. And they let us know before they left, they just got 10,000 more Deus Ex keys, so we will let that run throughout the weekend.
Travis: That's amazing.
Laura: Oh, awesome.
Orion: Nice!
Zac: So the mods will keep spamming that throughout the weekend and you guys can donate throughout the rebroadcast and things like that for a one-dollar Deus Ex code.
Laura: Anything over a dollar.
Zac: Anything over a dollar, yeah.
Matt: That's so awesome.
Zac: One-oh-one! Enjoy Deus Ex.
Matt: Yeah! Thank you guys so much.
Laura: It would be good if you donated more than one dollar, if you want.
Taliesin: It's still needed.
Matt: The Critters are strong. The Critters are legion.
Travis: It is. They are.
Matt: It's amazing the things we can do.
Orion: It is on. YES.
Taliesin: There are Critters in the walls.
Marisha: They're in the god--
Marisha: -- damn walls!
Taliesin: -- damn walls!
Taliesin: Thank you for being there with me on that.
Matt: All righty, so! Back into the fray.
Laura: Oh, god, okay.
Matt: You guys, after finishing your short rest, healing up various wounds in that circumstance--
Sam: (plays note on flute) (laughter)
Matt: You make your way, playing a fancy little ditty on the flute. You make your way down this long, long staircase. You continue down for, I'd say, probably a good hundred feet or so before you start encountering, I'll say, a mild change in the scenery, at least. What was normally just a musty hallway is becoming thicker and thicker coated with large spiderwebs.
Laura: Ugh.
Travis: Awesome.
Orion: Everything's so sticky.
Ashley: Spiders!
Matt: You manage to push through and cut through, but it gets to the point where it's just so matted you guys are having to bushwhack your way through as if you had a machete.
Taliesin: I'm not taking off my mask.
Travis: Can I turn to one of those (clears throat) Scalebearers and ask if they've ever dealt with any umber-hulks in this region.
Matt: Scalebearer Vorak gives kind of a curious look to your question. Scalebearer Desona looks to you and says, "No, I don't believe they exist in this region. Nor this close to the surface, as far as I know."
Travis: Right. That's important, isn't it.
Orion: Are the spiderwebs-- are they becoming more as we traverse--
Matt: Yes, they're getting thicker and thicker.
Orion: Okay, so I'm going to make my way towards the front of the group because I'm noticing this and I'm going to do a Fire Breath, and I'm going to instantly cast Control Flame and catch as much as I can of it, and start spinning it, burning the webs as we go.
Matt: Okay. Very cool. So, Tiberius steps forward and breathes a heating breath of dragon fire out of his mouth. As it cascades forward, burning through the nearby webs, he casts a secondary spell and captures it and begins to shape it, almost like it's a fiery clay in the middle of the air. And he utilizes it in a very similar way to how he uses Telekinesis and begins to use that rolling fire to burn through the webbing as you guys continue down the stairway.
Laura: Nice.
Taliesin: That's convenient.
Marisha: At least it'll be disinfected.
Orion: Mm-hm-hm. Fire cleans all.
Matt: It also leaves a terrible stench. Burning web has this awful kind of--
Travis: Burnt hair?
Matt: It's similar. Burnt hair with burnt plastic, if you can think of it-- it's awful.
Laura: What's plastic?
Matt: This is more for your own player knowledge, sensory knowledge. (laughter)
Matt: The sound of crackling of the nearby webbing that's slowly retracting and burning and melting is immediately joined by the sound of a low clicking. (groaning)
Laura: I stealth immediately.
Marisha: Oh, that frickin' sound. Do we-- I can try to cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us, if we want to sneak through here.
Laura: Oh, yeah, that would be good!
Marisha: Do you want to try to sneak through?
Travis: Yeah, do it.
Marisha: I cast Pass Without a Trace.
Travis: Now let's vogue. This changes every time!
Orion: Sweet!
Matt: All right, so Pass Without a Trace is cast, while you two both make stealth rolls.
Laura: So, with the Pass Without a Trace?
Matt: With the Pass Without a Trace, yes.
Laura: 31.
Orion: (quietly, to Marisha) Is my magic on stealth, too?
Liam: 24.
Matt: With the plus ten?
Liam: Plus ten from what? Say again?
Laura: Pass Without a Trace.
Matt: Keyleth cast Pass Without a Trace.
Liam: Oh, 34.
Matt: All right. You guys dart off to the side, kind of using the remnants of the web to block your physical forms. The boiling fire that has been placed ahead of you is starting to reflect small little points of reflected light throughout the shadows in the distance that are moving towards you as you see giant hairy arachnid legs.
Orion: I back up! I have my cloak on. And I'm going to go ahead and cast Stoneskin. That's what I do right now.
Matt: You cast Stoneskin? I'm going to go ahead and ask--
Marisha: I'm also going to cast Stoneskin.
Laura: Can I cast, while they're coming-- where did I write it down?
Sam: I'm going to go invisible.
Laura: Never mind, I can't find my spell.
Sam: This is exciting, guys. There's a board of some sort.
Laura: I cast Entangle on the ground.
Matt: In front?
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: You have-- you can cast things?
Laura: (quickly) Yeah, yeah, yeah!
Orion: (quietly) Yeah, she's a ranger, she can cast stuff.
Travis: Apparently.
Taliesin: As long as it's at range.
Sam: Grog, you've got a beard spell.
Travis: I do.
Taliesin: That was my terrible joke and I wish I hadn't. Now I'm embarrassed.
Travis: I can also cast Flatulence.
Sam: And you have Frenzied Rage.
Matt: All right. You can now see skittering off to the side what appear to be a series of large arachnid-like creatures. As you cast Entanglement, you can--
Laura: I'm reading it now.
Matt: Go ahead and read the spell.
Orion: Did I manage to catch with the Control Flame my entire Fire Breath when I did that? And I'm controlling it still?
Matt: Currently you are.
Laura: Oh, that's not what it was. That's the wrong spell. Sorry, sorry, it's Spike Growth, is the spell.
Sam: Spikes growth?
Laura: I cast Spike Growth.
Matt: Spike Growth, okay, that is different.
Laura: Yes, which is-- the ground in a 20-foot radius centered on a point within range twists and sprouts hard spikes and thorns. It's difficult terrain for the duration, but anybody that can see me casting it doesn't take damage to it, it's only the people that don't see me casting it.
Marisha: Dope.
Sam: Really?
Matt: All right.
Laura: Yeah. Any creature that can't see the area at the time the spell is cast must make a wisdom check.
Orion: Cool.
Sam: All right, but can they see the area?
Matt: They can see the area.
Laura: Oh. Well, that's not quite the same thing, then, what I saw. (yells) Forget it, my spell is stupid!
Sam: No, no!
Orion: It's fine, just not in a hallway with stairs.
Laura: I know!
Sam: It's fine, just stick to arrows, really.
Ashley: She can do so much more than just arrows!
Orion: As I see this, can I release my Control Flame and let the Fire Breath just happen, and not control it anymore?
Matt: Looking into your spell now. Oh, Control Flames is a cantrip. You are able to control just enough fire to burn away the things. It wouldn't actually do any damage if released. Control Fire kind of like captures an element of it.
Orion: Okay. So that's what I was using, the element of what I did.
Matt: Yeah.
Orion: So I used it so I could have the fire.
Matt: Exactly.
Orion: Got it.
Matt: You set it as a catalyst to it.
Laura: They can see the ground.
Matt: They can.
Laura: Then no, don't cast it.
Travis: Doesn't it mess up the ground if we try to walk through it?
Laura: Not you guys, but they--
Marisha: But they're spiders. They're probably not that wise.
Orion: Can I cast something else?
Matt: No. Right now everyone rolls initiative.
Orion: Damn it!
Ashley: Ugh.
Matt: There are only so many things you can do here, Tiberius.
Orion: I know, but I like doing lots of things.
Matt: I know you do.
Marisha: That's not bad! I'll take that.
Sam: I lost my dice.
Laura: That's my punishment.
Travis: Fuck, yeah.
Taliesin: I love my new stats.
Laura: I don't think that should count.
Taliesin: I rolled terribly this time but my stats are good.
Sam: Every time, every time.
Orion: What?
Sam: I've never rolled a double digit initiative roll, ever.
Matt: Oh, Scanlan, but you roll when it counts.
Travis: Just Wil Wheaton roll every time you do initiative.
Taliesin: Is that what we're calling it? Wheatoning?
Travis: Yeah, Wheatoning.
Laura: Wheatoning? Yeah.
Taliesin: All right.
Travis: Wheatoning.
Sam: (announcer voice) Wha-Wha-Wheaton.
Matt: All right, so. 25-20.
Ashley: Natural 20. (yelling)
Ashley: I don't think that ever happens when it's like damage or something.
Matt: That's okay.
Laura: 23.
Ashley: I'm gonna go with it.
Matt: Okay, so 23. Grog, what have you got?
Travis: 21.
Matt: Okay, so we've got Vex, Grog, and Pike, what's your dex? What's your initiative bonus?
Ashley: Nothing.
Matt: Nothing, so 20. All right. 20 to 15?
Marisha: 17.
Matt: 17, Keyleth.
Orion: 15.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: All right, Percy. Tiberius. Vax?
Laura: He's gone.
Matt: Has left the screen.
Travis: Oh, really?
Sam: Great.
Ashley: Last.
Matt: I'm going to consider that a low initiative.
Marisha: Oh-ho-ho-ho.
Orion: He just went to go poop.
Sam: Seven!
Matt: Seven for Scanlan.
Orion: Or deal with--
Matt: All right, we'll get to his turn when we get to it.
Ashley: (yells) Vax!
Matt: It's okay. All right, Vex.
Marisha: Wait, there he is.
Sam: He's holding a cat.
Orion: He has a cat.
Sam: It's Trinket! It's Trinket!
Matt: What did you roll for initiative?
Liam: That is a 16.
Matt: 16?
Orion: Okay.
Travis: Get your head out of your ass.
Sam: He's Dr. Evil. (laughter)
Matt: All right, Vex.
Laura: Me?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Oh! I'm going to cast Conjure Barrage at all of the spiders coming at us.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: I'm going to Hunter's Mark whatever one looks the biggest.
Matt: Okay, from this position you will also hit Tiberius to hit all the spiders.
Laura: Oh, where am I?
Matt: You're right here.
Laura: Oh.
Travis: You gotta do what you gotta do. (laughs) Sorry.
Matt: I mean, you could--
Laura: I'm going to move to where I'm in the middle of them. I'm still kind of stuck.
Matt: Right there?
Marisha: Get it!
Laura: Yeah, and then I'll Conjure Barrage from there.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: (quietly) Don't encourage it.
Laura: I cast Hunter's Mark on the biggest one I see.
Matt: Okay, this one here is one of the larger ones.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: So I'm going to go ahead and mark that one. So go ahead and-- Conjure Barrage does what damage?
Travis: (quietly) Hate it.
Laura: It does 3d8 on all creatures.
Matt: Do they get a saving throw?
Laura: They get-- yes, they do. They get half-damage if they save.
Matt: Mmkay. What's the DC on your spells?
Laura: (in a funny gruff voice) My DC is 14.
Orion: (laughs)
Matt: All righty.
Orion: (mimicking Laura's gruff voice) MemememememeME.
Marisha: What's your DC, girl?
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: What's yo digits? Gimme those stats.
Matt: Okay, all you need--
Laura: Do I need to roll for attack?
Matt: Only this one makes it.
Laura: Oh, sweet!
Matt: No, the barrage just happens. They're all caught in it.
Laura: Okay, cool.
Matt: So all of them take full damage, except for this one takes half damage, so go ahead and roll the damage on that.
Laura: Okay. 3d8. 15, and then 20 for the big one with the Hunter's Mark.
Matt: All righty. So. So you moved, did that. Do you want to move Trinket as well?
Laura: Can I have Trinket attack?
Matt: Trinket--
Laura: Oh, that's a lot of them.
Matt: Well, that, and the spell you cast was an action. Trinket can attack as part of your attack round.
Laura: Okay, so I get a second attack?
Matt: Well, no, your spell was an action. So that's your turn. You do Conjure Barrage instead of your attack.
Laura: Cool, I'm going to step back against the wall.
Matt: All right, so you step back there. Do you want to move Trinket anywhere in particular?
Laura: Nah, he can't really get anywhere, it's fine.
Matt: All right, Trinket is there and-- (bear noises)
Laura: It's good times, guys.
Matt: Angrily, a growl in the distance. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I'd like to hold my turn.
Sam: What?
Orion: Ooh, yeah!
Matt: All right, Grog holds initiative.
Orion: Strategy.
Marisha: Must be something good.
Matt: Pike, you're up.
Ashley: Okay, how far can I move up to use a Spiritual Weapon? I can't tell where I'm at. I'm sorry, I didn't wear my glasses.
Matt: I mean, you can move through your allies without an issue. You can shift through your own guys without a problem.
Ashley: Okay, so I would like to cast a golden spiderweb of thorns.
Sam: Ooh.
Laura: (gasps) What?
Marisha: Ooh.
Orion: (laughs) Nice!
Taliesin: Fancy.
Matt: All right. Okay.
Ashley: And encase the spiders.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: That's cool.
Matt: Okay. (laughter)
Ashley: Like a thorny net.
Matt: This would be considered a net, if we are considering a weapon that you are conjuring for this.
Ashley: I'm just making it look really pretty.
Matt: Right.
Ashley: Basically.
Travis: (quietly) It looks so pretty.
Matt: So the effect of this-- I'm letting you hit multiple guys with this. It would not do any damage.
Ashley: It wouldn't do any damage, it would just contain them?
Matt: It would possibly have an effect on their ability--
Ashley: Even if they're thorny? Even like holy thorns? Oh.
Matt: It would be very itchy for them.
Ashley: All right, you know what?
Orion: Oh. Well, I mean, that's not out of--
Laura: I think you should stick with it, it's awesome.
Sam: Yeah, man, commit.
Ashley: Okay. Contain them.
Orion: Yeah, it's thematic.
Ashley: Contain them and then somebody could just--
Laura: Fireball.
Ashley: Throw fire, a fireball at them.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll a d20 and then add five to it.
Ashley: Okay. 12.
Matt: 12? Okay. These four in the immediate front, right there, as you bring back your mace in the air, you kind of hang onto the side with the leather strap around your wrist. You reach up and grab your holy symbol. As you release the holy symbol to hold your hand up, divine energy streaks out from your fingertips and forms into this kind of gold and silver net. As your arm is doing this kind of throwing animation in the air like that, the net shoots out from the front and spreads down onto the spiders and contracts around. You can see it catches them and they start scrambling inside. These front four are considered grappled. (cheering)
Ashley: All right, all right!
Matt: The one in the back managed to avoid it.
Orion: Cool.
Laura: Nice!
Marisha: Nice!
Matt: That's it? That brings it to Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay, with that new development--
Orion: Wait. Can you do lightning?
Marisha: I can. I'm going to do Poison Spray, though. Where am I right now?
Matt: You're right here. Behind Pike as she threw her giant golden net.
Marisha: I'm going to be like, 'scuse me, 'scuse me, Pike, 'scuse me. Sorry, sorry.
Ashley: Yes? Oh, go through, go through, go go go!
Marisha: Thank you, thank you, thank you.
Ashley: Tag you in! Tag you in!
Marisha: (whoosh) Poison Spray! It's a ten-foot cone.
Matt: Ten-foot cone. If you want to get right up in here you could get these three there.
Marisha: I'll do that.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: (whoosh) So, it's a constitution saving throw.
Matt: Okay. This one succeeds, this one fails, this one fails.
Sam: (singing along with the battle music) It's the music that means we're having a fight.
Matt: All right. So, this one succeeds, so no damage, but these two take damage. Go ahead and roll it.
Marisha: Okay, so they take 2d12. Six. Ugh. Seven damage.
Matt: Seven damage to each.
Marisha: It's not great. I think he takes half damage, though, even though he fails.
Matt: Does he? I think Poison Mist--
Marisha: Poison Spray.
Matt: Oh, Poison Spray. It's a cantrip. I think it's damage or nothing.
Marisha: Oh, yeah, I guess so.
Matt: All right. It's your move, do you want to keep moving or do you want to stay where you are?
Marisha: Can I get out of everyone's way?
Matt: You're currently-- actually, down from where you cast it, you would be able to move out, yeah.
Marisha: Can I back up a little bit? Yeah.
Matt: You can, they're still grappled.
Marisha: I just kind of want to-- yeah.
Matt: To there. All right.
Marisha: Your turn!
Matt: That ends your turn. Vax, Percy.
Taliesin: Please, be my guest.
Liam: Did you say Vax, Percy?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Yep.
Liam: I'm doing my best seeing from where I can see here. Keyleth is right in front of me?
Matt: She was. She just pulled behind you.
Marisha: I moved behind.
Laura: Now you're in front of the spiders.
Marisha: You're good, you're in front.
Liam: Okay, there's a little bit of distance, so I'm just going to start hucking daggers at them. I'm going to start with dagger of life stealing.
Marisha: You're only two squares away.
Liam: That is a 16 to hit.
Matt: 16 to hit? Hits.
Liam: Okay, so that is four, six, is ten of damage.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Then the keen dagger follows. That is a 27.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: That hits for ten damage, and then--
Laura: You're killing them!
Liam: And then the flametongue dagger.
Matt: You're not Hasted anymore, by the way.
Liam: You're right, forget it, yeah, forget that last. That's right, two.
Matt: So as you're off to the side hiding among the slowly burning webbing, you move around, huck both daggers. One strikes a spider right in the center of where its eyes are and it screeches for a second before it curls up, its legs kind of pulling into its torso. The other one begins to pull out of the net that Pike set, and as it does you throw the secondary dagger. It strikes it in its abdomen, and the blade retracts and returns to your belt, and as it does, it leaves this streak of greenish liquid. And you have a better view of these spiders now. Go ahead and make a nature check, both Keyleth and Vex.
Marisha: Dope.
Orion: By the way, I'm here, but I'm also there.
Marisha: Natural 20. (yelling)
Matt: You're also there?
Orion: Cloak of Displacement.
Laura: Good, because I rolled an eight.
Matt: Oh.
Orion: There's like two of me.
Matt: All right. So, Keyleth
Sam: (whistles with the battle music)
Matt: You notice as most spider-like creatures go, you're used to like the darker, furry, wolf-spider types. These have a different color. Their physical bodies are more white and blue. Their coloration is mostly white but with a kind of bluish hue to it and their eyes are almost pink-white in color.
Laura: Ugh.
Ashley: Because they live underground. There's no sunlight.
Matt: They're a very strange, different kind of spider.
Liam: I don't like this.
Marisha: Is that all I know, with my natural 20?
Matt: You haven't encountered too many types of arachnids, but there's something about them that seems loosely themed in the ethereal.
Laura: Oh.
Marisha: Hm.
Matt: You in your experience, you've heard of certain spiders that can travel through the planes rapidly.
Orion: Now damn plane spiders?
Travis: Maybe we don't have to kill it, maybe they just (pfft).
Marisha: Gotcha. Hey, guys, I think these are like magical bamf-ing spiders.
Orion: Oh.
Taliesin: Okay.
Sam: Cool, bro, let's kill them.
Marisha: Yeah, let's kill them.
Taliesin: There's one spider that's not caught?
Laura: There's what, there's three spiders left?
Matt: Yes, one back here.
Taliesin: All right, I'm going to take a couple of shots at it with my Sharpshooter, so let's start with 24 to hit?
Matt: What was it?
Taliesin: 24 to hit?
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: And let's do this. My first shot--
Sam: Ka-pew!
Taliesin: That's depressing. Well, I get the bonus, so that's 18 points of damage.
Matt: 18 points of damage? All righty.
Marisha: That's not too depressing.
Ashley: That's not depressing at all.
Travis: That's not depressing.
Taliesin: That's not too depressing. It's because I'm taking a negative five to hit.
Laura: Oh.
Taliesin: And that's-- oh, that's not bad. I have new numbers. 16 to hit.
Matt: 16 does also hit, yeah.
Taliesin: Aha!
Matt: Same target?
Taliesin: Same target, with an added fire bonus. Three fire damage and 17 as well.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: 17 plus three fire damage.
Ashley: That bonus is awesome.
Laura: He is so dead.
Matt: (gunshot noise) That spider gets splattered. You see there's a burst of flame and a (explosion noise) as its body is knocked in the air, torn asunder, and then consumed by the flame burst at the same time. You see what looks like a scattering of ash across the ground and the steps beneath it.
Marisha: It looks like flash paper?
Matt: Essentially, yeah.
Taliesin: And I duck back behind Grog. (laughter)
Travis: Where are you going?
Matt: All right. These two spiders that are currently caught in the net both (whoosh) vanish and the net falls flat.
Laura: Oh, bamf-ing spiders.
Matt: (teleportation noise)
Taliesin: Oh, shit.
Matt: One is striking at you.
Laura: Me?
Matt: That is a 21 to hit.
Laura: It hits me.
Matt: And against Percy, that is a 25.
Taliesin: Oh my god, that hits.
Matt: All right. You both take 13 points of piercing damage
Taliesin: Ow!
Matt: And I need you both to make a constitution saving throw. (groaning)
Taliesin: Oh, bugger.
Marisha: That can't be good.
Taliesin: 13 points of piercing damage?
Matt: Mm-hm.
Marisha: They poofed. Poofers.
Laura: 17? Oh, wait. 19.
Matt: 19 constitution saving throw.
Taliesin: Constitution saving throw. (blows raspberry)
Marisha: Oh, no, Percy!
Taliesin: Rolled a one.
Matt: So as all of a sudden, the strange (teleportation noise) sound streaks behind you, you turn over your shoulder just in time to see the spiders pop out of seemingly nowhere and strike into you. The fangs sink into your side and you knock them off with your elbow.
Laura: (grunts in pain)
Matt: You feel the venom extract itself from the fangs, but just as you pull it out of the side, so it actually does not envenom your body. Percy, you're not so lucky. The venom pulses into the side of your shoulder.
Taliesin: (groans in pain)
Matt: And you feel this burning sensation ripple through your entire upper right torso. You take 21 points of poison damage.
Marisha: Oh, shit!
Liam: What was that number, again?
All: 21.
Sam: He's fine, he's fine.
Marisha: Is that all it does, just poison him?
Matt: Yep.
Taliesin: I am poisoned, though.
Matt: You are not considered poisoned. It's the damage that's poison.
Laura: Oh, it's straight-up damage.
Marisha: Okay, that's not too bad.
Taliesin: It could be worse.
Matt: That ends their turn. Tiberius? You're still holding your turn, Grog?
Travis: Mm-hm.
Marisha: I did take Protection From Poison.
Laura: I should cast that on us.
Marisha: If that's necessary.
Matt: All right, Tiberius?
Orion: So we're in a hallway, a stairwell?
Matt: Yes, it's a stairway heading down, essentially, right here, and then it evens out at the bottom point there.
Marisha: Fighting on the stairs.
Orion: Is it like a big--
Matt: It's about 15 feet up to the ceiling. Ten, 15.
Orion: Oh. Very well. How many are left, two?
Matt: Two.
Laura: Yeah.
Orion: Obelisk of Stone.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Squishy spiders.
Orion: Yeah, these squishy spiders.
Matt: So as both the spiders are knocked off both Percy and Vex, you guys kind of rear back, ready to defend yourselves. Suddenly the stairwell shakes for a second and pillars of stone go (stone crushing noises) from underneath. Similar to the trap room you encountered earlier.
Orion: That's it. 21.
Matt: 21? And what's the DC on your spell?
Orion: 17.
Matt: 17? Both spiders get mashed pretty horribly into the ceiling. You see where the pillars are slammed into the ceiling permanently. You can see the legs kind of dangling out for a second and then slowly curl in towards where the edge of the stone pillars are at the ceiling.
Laura: Eat it.
Marisha: Are there any corpses that are more accessible than the one that got torched and the ones that are squished?
Travis: Yeah, are there any spider fangs we can put in the bag?
Marisha: Yeah, because I have that book that helps me do that now.
Taliesin: There's the one I shot.
Matt: You can, actually, there are-- there's one that you shot. No, actually, the one that you killed is the one that burst into flame.
Taliesin: Yes, the one that burst into flame.
Matt: That one's not going to be salvageable. There's a few that you and Vex killed. Vex and Vax both just kind of wiped out a few of the spiders. Go ahead and make an herbalism roll.
Laura: Ooh, I bet we can get some of that poison. Dip the arrows in it.
Marisha: What did the book do again, gave me a plus or an advantage? Did it give me an advantage on rolls or like a plus something?
Matt: I asked you to write that down. I will say advantage.
Marisha: Oh, wait, you did ask me to write it down and I think I did.
Matt: Advantage or a bonus, which of the two is it?
Marisha: Oh, no, I didn't write it down, I just wrote that I have the books.
Matt: Ah. I don't remember what I did for that. I will say advantage. That's the easiest to remember.
Marisha: That's better. 24.
Matt: 24. You managed to extract two poison glands from one of the spiders. The other ones were too damaged beyond repair.
Laura: Ooh.
Orion: Sweet.
Marisha: Two poison glands.
Matt: Two small venom glands.
Orion: Nice.
Marisha: I give them to the twins.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Oh, we can just use them?
Matt: You don't know.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: She hands you two nasty-looking glands that are still wet with spider ichor.
Marisha: I got this for you guys.
Laura: Oh, thank you, Keyleth.
Travis: Do you want me to hold onto them?
Liam: That's very... that's sweet. I love it.
Laura: Tiberius, would you happen to have a little glass vial or something I could put this in?
Orion: I think I have two left.
Laura: Oh!
Orion: I need to get more.
Travis: I have them.
Orion: Oh, here we go. (pop)
Laura: Thank you.
Taliesin: (laughs) Well.
Travis: I'm like a Wal-Mart over here. You could have asked me, but that's cool.
Marisha: Your book helps.
Sam: I'm ready to make my attack turn.
Matt: All right. There is nothing there. (laughter)
Sam: I sheath my sword.
Matt: There you go. (laughter)
Taliesin: A little help here, please? Would be nice.
Ashley: Yes.
Laura: Oh. Oh, wait, I thought you weren't poisoned-- oh, you need healing because you are--
Ashley: What are you at?
Taliesin: I'm at 47.
Laura: Okay.
Ashley: Okay.
Sam: Eh, you're fine. Suck it up.
Ashley: I guess we all need some-- what's everybody else at?
Liam: Ah, that's what I was at after I healed myself with a handful of hit dice after getting crushed into the ceiling.
Laura: Yeah, but we took a short break and we're not doing that now.
Sam: Use your hit dice, you'll be fine.
Taliesin: I could just use my-- oh.
Ashley: Um, hold on.
Matt: Are you guys taking a short rest, is that what you're doing?
Laura: No.
Travis: No, no.
Marisha: No, we're good.
Ashley: Let me heal you up, Percy, hold on.
Laura: Can I ask a question while she's healing Percy?
Orion: We've taken a short rest already, right?
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: The grappling arrow I used on the little halfling, I can get that back, right?
Matt: Yeah, you retrieved it.
Laura: Just making sure.
Sam: I'll continue on down the hallway.
Travis: I join him.
Matt: Keyleth, are you still using Pass Without a Trace?
Marisha: No.
Laura: No?
Sam: She had to break it to use Stoneskin.
Matt: It's a concentration spell, isn't it?
Marisha: Yeah, but I cast Stoneskin on myself.
Matt: You did. All right. So go ahead and make a stealth roll.
Marisha: Sorry.
Sam: Not good. Nine.
Travis: I'm with you.
Matt: Nine. All right.
Sam: (nasal voice) Nine.
Ashley: Nine, Percy.
Liam: I would like to continue to stealth ahead of the group and also continue checking for traps.
Sam: We already went.
Travis: Scanlan's already ahead of you.
Laura: Sam already said it.
Liam: Oh, he is?
Matt: As you stealthily move along the side of the wall, Scanlan comes pattering down the stonework.
Sam: Skipping.
Ashley: Percy, 18.
Taliesin: 18? Thank you.
Laura: Scanlan, no. (groans)
Matt: Into what is a large central chamber. You can see webbing scattered throughout the entirety of the stone room. It's about 60 feet up. There is very low light from the flickering sconces that are on the walls of this towards the base of the actual room. The building in the center, it looks almost like an ancient mausoleum structure, how it's placed in the center of the room. Closed stone doors. But what catches your eye is that the entirety of the structure seems to be crafted of the same platinum-like material as the container that you guys are carrying the horn in.
Laura: Oh, wow.
Sam: Oh, we made it.
Laura: Are there sapphires all over the walls in here, then?
Matt: Not the walls of the actual chamber itself, just this central building right there.
Orion: We're not stealing from this place.
Matt: Go ahead and make a perception check, anyone who wishes to look for traps.
Sam: While we're out there, I'm going to check--
Laura: (gasps) Oh no, that was my big fancy one.
Orion: Nice. I'm going to check for any arcane stuff and I got--
Liam: 14.
Matt: 14 perception.
Liam: Yeah, 14.
Orion: I'm going to check for 25.
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: Perception?
Taliesin: Perception, 21.
Matt: Okay. 25 for arcane?
Orion: Yeah.
Matt: Best you can gather, as far as the presence of any arcane in this room, the scrolling on the structure in front of you, there are elements of the scrolling that you can see are based in the arcane runes that are used for ritual inscribing, but there's nothing of any magic that you've ever been familiar with that is utilized in this structure. What did you roll?
Laura: Really, really high. Eight.
Matt: All right. So, who is moving in? Who wants to--
Sam: I moved in with Grog.
Travis: I move in as well.
Liam: I'm moving in.
Laura: Can I try to stealth and move alongside just kind of keep to the edge?
Ashley: Going in.
Travis: We're all going in.
Liam: Ditto, kiddo.
Matt: All right, you move off to the side, kind of pushing through some of the webs and there's still webs on the side of the room.
Orion: I'll keep close to the guards and the box.
Ashley: Yeah, I'll go in.
Laura: Okay, I rolled 18 on the stealth.
Matt: All righty.
Ashley: I'll go in close to Grog.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: I'm going to tail my sister, actually.
Matt: All right. (whoosh) You move around over here with your sister.
Laura: And Trinket's going to stay next to Keyleth.
Matt: All righty.
Marisha: Come here, Trinket.
Matt: So they'll go back to this point.
Sam: I'm going to go invisible.
Taliesin: Wait. I'm furry, but I'm not Trinket. Jesus Christ.
Marisha: (laughs)
Matt: All right, you are currently marked as invisible, Scanlan.
Laura: Can we see a spider in here, like a big spider?
Matt: You don't.
Marisha: There's always a big mama spider.
Laura: Okay, can I-- it's dark?
Matt: It's very low light.
Sam: No one's cast Light yet.
Orion: I know.
Laura: I'm going to use my Primeval Awareness and see if I can sense any spiders in the area.
Matt: Okay. You take a moment to concentrate and you sense-- while not in visible range, on the opposite side of this room, a whole bunch of tiny little life sources and one rather large one.
Laura: Good to know.
Travis: Shit.
Ashley: Ugh.
Laura: (whispers) Lots of spiders. Lots. I'm going to cast Protection From Poison on myself.
Matt: All right.
Travis: I cast Terminix.
Taliesin: (laughs)
Liam: I'm drinking a healing potion right now.
Matt: All righty.
Ashley: I'm going to do the same thing.
Marisha: Also, I'll go ahead and-- nah, nah, it's fine.
Taliesin: What does a level two healing potion do, again?
Marisha: I'm going to keep my Stoneskin up.
Ashley: Yeah, what's the level two?
Matt: Level two healing potion does 4d4 + 4.
Orion: I'm going to go use Greater Invisibility, as well.
Matt: Okay. All right. You are also considered invisible.
Sam: Why greater?
Orion: Because I can cast and still stay invisible.
Matt: All right, Kima pushes ahead through the group while you guys are doing this, walks up to the front of the chamber, and you see she takes the holy symbol around from her neck, the symbol of Bahamut, and much like she did to the doorway at the bottom of the temple earlier to find this initial passageway, she feels around in the scrolling and eventually finds a section of it and rotates what looks like a circular part of it that shifts and then pulls out. When she pulls it out, you can see there is a kind of engraving, there is a recessed engraving of the same shape as her holy symbol.
Laura: Before she touches anything, can I let her know that there's a whole lot of spiders on the other side of the room.
Matt: You may do that.
Sam: Wait, what? You didn't tell any of us that.
Travis: Can I shift to her right flank, just at the corner of the mausoleum structure? Right there.
Laura: Just so everybody's aware, those things we just fought? There's a ton more of them on the other side of this little chamber.
Sam: Oh, thanks for telling us.
Laura: No problem.
Matt: Grog, make a stealth check.
Marisha: (whispers) Be very quiet.
Travis: Oh, shit. Natural 20. (cheering)
Taliesin: Spiderman.
Laura: Good thing you took that beard off because it had bells and shit in it.
Travis: Oh, the beard is still there.
Sam: No, no, it fell off.
Travis: Its most majestic part fell off.
Sam: Oh.
Matt: Yeah. There's still some goliath peach fuzz there.
Travis: Substantial Viking-ness happening.
Matt: Grog, for a moment there, you recess into your old hunter training when you were traveling with your barbarian tribe and you take in the darkness around you and walk, fleet of foot, to the edge of it, not making a single sound. You're damn proud of yourself.
Travis: I am.
Taliesin: (whispers) Quietly.
Matt: So as you tell this to Kima, she goes, (whispers) "What? Spiders?"
Laura: (whispers) Lots and lots of spiders. Is that going to make noise?
Matt: (whispers) "I don't know. I haven't been in this chamber before."
Laura: Perhaps we should deal with the spiders before we make noise, or maybe just be prepared. In fact, you know what? I'm going to cast Spike Growth on the ground in between where they're going to have to walk through.
Marisha: Ooh, good. Smarty-pants.
Laura: Because they can't freaking see it right now, can they?
Matt: Which way?
Laura: Yeah, there, yeah.
Ashley: Both sides?
Matt: You said Spike Growth. How much does it affect?
Laura: It affects-- damn it-- I didn't put it in my thingy because I'm dumb. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
Matt: That's okay.
Orion: You're not dumb. You're a strong, smart person.
Ashley: While she's looking, could I--
Laura: Spike Growth!
Ashley: You found it.
Taliesin: Way more than arrows.
Laura: It is a 20-foot radius. That's not that much.
Matt: Okay, cool. So you can do this whole area right here is all spiky growth.
Laura: And it's hard spikes. Hard spikes and thorns.
Matt: Good to know.
Taliesin: Briar.
Sam: All right, well, I'm going to follow suit and go to the other side and cast Stinking Cloud. No, over--
Matt: Over here?
Sam: Over there, yeah.
Travis: Our side's the best! (laughter)
Matt: Go ahead and make another stealth check.
Sam: Okay. 15. 17!
Matt: 17.
Sam: That's the best stealth I've ever done.
Ashley: Well done.
Travis: Yeah, buddy.
Matt: You quietly come by and mutter under your breath your arcane ritual and all of a sudden (quiet whoosh). And what was the size of the cloud on that one?
Sam: 30 feet, I think? I think it's 30 feet. Hold on, hold on, hold on. 90 feet! Oh, that's the range.
Matt: What's the radius?
Sam: It's a 20-foot radius.
Orion: Oh, your cards are cool!
Matt: 20-foot radius, which would be-- Actually, a 20-foot radius for this would be...
Orion: Nice, they have little bard thingies.
Marisha: Oh, they're purple. Mine has like a--
Orion: Nice color diversity!
Matt: This whole area here--
Laura: Oh, nice!
Orion: (laughs) Oh, I did see this.
Matt: This whole area here is done.
Marisha: I've got like a scythe.
Taliesin: A sickle.
Matt: And you also now make a very nasty cloud in this vicinity as well. This whole area is completely marked off on both sides now.
Orion: I'd like to walk up as I see this going on. I'm going to take out my deck of illusions. I'm going to toss two cards both ways, two cards on each side. So I'm going to do this, real quick.
Laura: Question. That chamber in the center of the room, does it go all the way to the ceiling, or is it--
Matt: No, there is a gap.
Orion: Deck of illusions, everyone.
Laura: So there's a huge-- so technically, the spiders could crawl up the ceiling and drop down on us?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: In theory?
Taliesin: Why would you give him ideas like that? Just feed him irony!
Travis: Let's go.
Orion: Ten of Hearts, Yes! Joker, Queen of Hearts, and another Joker! What?!
Sam: What does that mean?
Matt: Wait, you threw--
Orion: I put two on each side.
Matt: Oh, two on each side.
Orion: Yeah. So, like, two over in the spot before all that mess over there and two are in the other mess.
Ashley: Do you want to go one up top, just in case?
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah.
Orion: So the Jokers--
Matt: Are you.
Orion: And a female version of me.
Laura: Ooh, that's awesome.
Matt: All right, so a secondary Tiberius appears right there.
Orion: (falsetto) Hello, everyone.
Marisha: You know, you make a good woman.
Orion: (falsetto) Tiberiosa.
Matt: Female Tiberius appears over on that side.
Marisha: Tiberiosa.
Orion: And then whichever side you decide, a Queen of Hearts and Ten of Hearts.
Matt: Queen of Hearts-- oh, interesting.
Travis: (falsetto) Levi-O-sa, not levio-SA.
Matt: A succubus appears over here. Winged.
Marisha: Well, that's fun.
Matt: Sorry, what was the other one that you said?
Orion: Queen of Hearts and a Ten of Hearts.
Matt: Ten of Hearts. A cloud giant on this side of the room.
Laura: What?
Orion: (explosion noise)
Ashley: Rad.
Matt: We'll use that mini for now, it's fine. All of a sudden appear, kind of translucent, their image flickering. It's not a great illusion, but it's enough where it catches some attention.
Orion: And they're positioned right before the messes of each side.
Matt: Like right there.
Orion: Yeah.
Matt: All righty. Kima's now sitting there like, (whispers) "Put the key in now?"
Sam: No, no, do it.
Taliesin: Yes, yes, go.
Marisha: Okay, you're good. Go for it, yeah.
Matt: She puts her symbol into the recess. As it does, the stone doors shift and there's a dull kind of creaking of the stone as it slides not open, but into the walls, revealing an interior that is, as the light filters in, the entirety of the wall, floor, and ceiling of this room is of the same scrolling, the same platinum/sapphire material as the outside of the building and the box that's there, except for the design seems to all filter in towards the center, like the center of a spiderweb. All the design coalesces to the center point.
Laura: Had to be a spiderweb.
Matt: It's not an actual spiderweb. There's a raised dais up in the center there, about four feet wide, about a half-foot thick. Kima kind of takes her symbol and puts it back around her neck and kind of motions like this. The two Scalebearers begin to move down, carrying the case, looking about the rest of you like--
Orion: I invisibly follow right behind the box, still keeping my illusions in check.
Matt: All right.
Ashley: Same, same, same.
Matt: Everyone holds in place?
Marisha: Yeah, I'm not going to move far away.
Ashley: Following.
Travis: As you will.
Marisha: No, no, no, no.
Matt: You're staying right there?
Marisha: Yeah, yeah, if I held-- let me shift one over, just so I'm not in Trinket's way. The other way. Yeah.
Matt: There you go. All right, so. As they enter the chamber, Kima enters as well, you guys filing in behind them, I need you all to make stealth checks.
Travis: Everybody?
Laura: Everybody?
Matt: No, Tiberius, with advantage, because you're invisible.
Liam: What kind of check?
Sam: Stealth!
Travis: Not you.
Matt: Not you, don't worry about it.
Ashley: I don't?
Matt: You do.
Orion: 17.
Ashley: Three. (laughter)
Sam: Clang, clang, clang.
Matt: So you step into the chamber, losing your footing for a moment on the smooth, kind of platinum-like ridges across the ground, and you kind of catch yourself, your plate hitting the ground with a loud (ting) sound, at which point the two Scalebearers kind of look at you--
Ashley: (whispers) Sorry! Sorry!
Matt: With a heavy sigh, and Kima goes, "Go, go, go!" They both step forward and take and place the box into the center of the room on top of the dais. As they both release the chains, the box seems to levitate on its own to the center of the room, much like how the Horn itself ascended and was kept aloft in the center of the box. The box lifts up and slowly begins to rotate on its own. As it does, you can see the sapphire bits that are ingrained on this box flash with a bright blue light and all of a sudden the blue energy spreads into the ceiling and the floor of this room and all of the blue and silver veins that are carved into this begin to glow with a similar blue light.
Sam: Cool.
Marisha: Cool.
Orion: I love light.
Matt: At which point, the doors begin to--
Sam: Which doors?
Matt: The doors you guys entered this room through begin to close.
Sam: Ah, we should leave.
Orion: I'm going to scootch.
Matt: Yeah, you guys immediately scootch out of the way. Kima darts off. Both of them turn around and start running back.
Sam: (whispers) They're going to die.
Matt: They both make it out.
Ashley: Oh! That's good.
Matt: They both manage to just squeeze through real fast as the doors slam behind.
Marisha: That would be terrifying.
Matt: At which point, you see a series of spiders beginning to try to cut around-- these here, what's the DC on your--
Sam: My spell?
Matt: Your spell, yeah.
Sam: 17, because I didn't do it through the hand cone.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: (whispers) Why?
Marisha: Should we run?
Matt: Both of these spiders get disoriented and try to find their way through the Stinking Cloud, kind of like (choking, clicking noises).
Marisha: Yeah, who's going to be back down here, theoretically.
Orion: The guards could come back.
Matt: None of them make their way through. The rest of these begin coming forward-- what's the roll they have to make for the Spiky Growth?
Laura: 14.
Taliesin: To repair the room that we broke, anyway.
Matt: 14. Both missed their save. What's the damage on that?
Laura: That's 2d4 for every five feet crossed.
Matt: They would probably be skittering around here halfway through before they changed trajectory, so-- 1d4, 2d4?
Laura: 2d4 for every five feet.
Matt: So 10d4 each.
Marisha: Nice!
Matt: They come charging around the corner rapidly (skittering noises).
Marisha: 10d4? That's cool.
Orion: Oh, nice, what?
Marisha: For her thorns.
Orion: (whispers) Sweet, thorns.
Marisha: My little sister once fell into a rose bush.
Sam: Good story.
Marisha: It was very painful.
Orion: Good story? (laughs) I once fell into a fire ant hill.
Marisha: That sucks, too.
Orion: It was very painful. I was riding my bike. It sucked.
Laura: 22.
Matt: 22. Both of these spiders stop in place, looking severely messed up and damaged and just kind of hold their ground, looking very confused. You see, crawling up over the top of this structure, one large white and bluish spider that leaps up. As this is happening, you guys are noticing that blue energy is cracking through the floor and now following the pattern across the entirety of the structure. It crawls up the walls--
Marisha: Oh.
Matt: -- and that blue energy reaches to the ceiling and illuminates it. And what you missed when you entered the room is you can see, recessed into the ceiling of this room, four large humanoid entities that are just currently held aloft, buried in the ceiling, of platinum armor.
Orion: Go.
Travis: We've got to go. We've got to go.
Matt: One of them suddenly flashes, dislodges, and (whoosh, thud), squashing the spider in the process. (yelling)
Marisha: What is that?
Matt: Just (spider screech, croak) screeching sound, the spider slowly tries to curl in place, the giant platinum golem now slamming on top and squishing on top. You see as it slowly comes to stand, each hand holding these giant platinum cleavers. You suddenly hear a voice ringing through your heads collectively: "Get out."
Laura: (whispers) We should get out!
Orion: You heard the man! You heard him! You heard him! The earrings, everybody heard him.
Sam: Wait, can we just leave the thing here with the golem?
Laura: Golems are meant to protect.
Orion: It's going to kill everything there.
Sam: Oh, then let's go.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: All right, so all of you guys start bolting out. I want everyone to go ahead and make a dexterity check.
Marisha: Okay. Yeah, sure.
Orion: 13.
Matt: All right, anyone lower than a ten?
Travis: What about on a ten?
Marisha: No.
Matt: Lower than a ten?
Orion: (quietly) We all got above ten?
Matt: Anyone? All right. You as well?
Ashley: 14.
Matt: Awesome. (laughter)
Orion: Even Pike!
Matt: You guys all come darting out of the room, except for Kima, who rolls a one. So all of you guys come running out of the room--
Sam: Kima's dead.
Marisha: Kima?
Matt: The rest of the Scalebearers come rushing out, they're no longer encumbered by the box. Kima's kind of helping everyone get by, trying to keep everyone at bay, being the hero. As she turns around, the first one comes leaping off of the structure, runs towards her and gives one giant sweep with one of its blades. Ooh, yeah, that'll hit. You see the blade streak across the front of her silver armor. She takes 24 points of slashing damage. It sends her flying back ten feet with the sheer force of it, but she manages to roll out of it, yeah! With an acrobatics check, catching herself to her feet and just keeps bolting behind the rest of you guys.
Laura: Can I see?
Matt: You now see behind two more (crash, crash) dislodging from the ceiling as the one that's charging after you is coming up the stairway. Through this, we're now going into a skill challenge as you guys are rushing out.
Laura: Oh, god.
Travis: Must go faster. Must go faster.
Sam: Skill challenge.
Marisha: Skill challenge!
Ashley: Ah, go, go!
Orion: Yeah, all right. Run for your life.
Marisha: We haven't done this in a while.
Matt: Now, as you're running to get through, there's still bits of webbing still in the way. I need everyone to go ahead and make another dexterity check.
Sam: All right, doing good.
Orion: Yes!
Taliesin: Yeah!
Marisha: Oh, okay, yeah, yeah, sure.
Orion: 21!
Laura: 25.
Taliesin: 22.
Travis: 21.
Liam: 26.
Ashley: 17?
Marisha: 11?
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: All right.
Sam: 19.
Matt: All right, as you guys are all charging up, kind of helping each other but also clamoring to get through, Kima is rushing up and you can see where one of the Scalebearers has now tripped and fallen on the stairs.
Sam: Oh, no!
Matt: She runs past, leans back to reach her hand out as the golem comes up behind--
Marisha: No!
Matt: -- with two hands, swings down with both blades.
Sam: Against Kima again?
Matt: No, this is against one of the Scalebearers.
Sam: Oh, okay.
Taliesin: Oh no.
Laura: Should I be rolling for Trinket?
Matt: I'm considering Trinket with you, so no.
Marisha: Too late, just leave them.
Laura: Okay, thank you.
Matt: We'll do that next round because I forgot. There's a lot of things to consider. One of them hits the stone and just streaks off, sparks flying through the air, illuminating the space secondarily. However, the other Scalebearer takes 28 points of slashing damage from the blow. As it reaches up again for a second blow, Kima reaches down and grabs Desona's arm and lifts her up off her feet and they both go charging forward. You guys make your way up the stairway as you see now the golem pushing its way through.
Orion: I'm going to dissipate my card illusion and I'm going to cast Fly on myself, so I'm hovering.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: How much of a gap is there between the last trailing-behind Scalebearer and the golem?
Matt: Well, now that Kima's got them, they're rushing up and there's about a ten-foot, 15-foot gap now.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: I'm going to turn around and do Wall of Stone. Boof!
Matt: Okay. As they rush past, a wall of stone slams up as the golem goes smashing into it--
Orion: I'll do support. I'll do Obelisk right behind it, too.
Matt: All right. So as you guys come rushing up to the top of this, you guys are just doing the stone wall, obelisk, obelisk, obelisk. We'll say you cast it twice to go ahead and reinforce.
Marisha: Boof!
Matt: All right, you hear the impact from behind. You hear stone crack and break and you see two of the pillars that you put up impact, dust and bits of rock shoot out, but it settles. Apparently it's holding strong and you start hearing slamming of some sort of heavy weight behind it.
Marisha: Right, run.
Matt: As well as the following of additional giant heavy footsteps. It's now got its reinforcements caught up to it. You guys charge into the room with the broken trap, which now has partially raised platforms. You're rushing around and trying to find your way through. You get to the other side of the room. There's now an entirety-- a room filled with mist in front of you.
Laura: (gasps) Oh no.
Marisha: I still have it. I can Gust of Wind. That's my last 3rd-level spell.
Matt: Okay. All right, Gust of Wind. I'm going to ask all of you guys to make a wisdom check as you rush through.
Marisha: Including me?
Matt: Everyone.
Sam: Wisdom check or saving throw?
Matt: This is a wisdom check.
Marisha: Just adding your wisdom?
Ashley: Natural 20!
Laura: What what!
Matt: Nice!
Ashley: 24.
Marisha: Saving throw or just your ability modifier?
Orion: 12.
Matt: Ability modifier.
Taliesin: Oh.
Marisha: Okay, 16.
Orion: I thought it was negative three.
Sam: Ten. Ten for me.
Taliesin: 14.
Laura: 13.
Liam: Nine.
Travis: Two.
Sam: Nine, wow.
Matt: All of you guys are pushing through. So, as you guys come rushing in you're like, go go! You see Keyleth's focusing and getting the wind to escape, Keyleth rushes up, Kima comes through with the two Scalebearers, everyone comes through, Grog's bringing up the back. You can see now, in the back behind him, a giant blade-wielding fist as the golem comes smashing through the wall. The rest of you guys, ushering Grog along, Grog comes running, hears the sound, looks over his shoulder and in the chaos of it, his trajectory is off and he ends up brushing into the side of the mist.
Laura: Oh, no!
Matt: Grog, go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Travis: 12.
Matt: You end up taking 24 points of fire damage as the pillars spin, unleashing a torrent of flame.
Travis: No, bad car wash, bad car wash!
Marisha: (laughs) Bad car wash.
Laura: Oh, no, Grog, your beard has been singed.
Orion: Oh!
Travis: What? (laughter)
Matt: You reach up instinctively, you feel it's as smooth as a baby goliath's face. (laughter)
Orion: All that work!
Matt: As you guys charge up the rest of the staircase--
Orion: Is Grog behind us now, like the furthest away?
Matt: He's just caught up to you guys as you're rushing up the staircase. You get to the final door. You exit. As Kima rushes everyone through, she brings out her holy symbol real fast, and as she pulls it off her neck, you see the first golem reach the bottom of the staircase. It begins looming up--
Orion: We're leaving! What are you doing?!
Marisha: Yeah, go home! Go home! Bad golem.
Taliesin: I take a--
Matt: Kima takes out her holy symbol and holds it aloft in front of her and says under her breath (murmurs), at which point it begins to glow with this extremely vibrant glow. As it does, you see a symbol emblazoned on the front of the golem and it flashes with light as it stops and just kind of holds its place-- and waits. And Kima looks at the symbol like "I wasn't sure that was going to work." She takes--
Orion: Tell it to go kill the spider.
Matt: She takes the symbol and puts it back in the side of the stone door that originally was closed. The doors slowly seal shut once again. She pulls the symbol out-- and she falls to her knees, breathing heavily.
Sam: Oh, Kima.
Marisha: We did it!
Travis: Next time, lead with that.
Orion: I agree, Grog. Very well said.
Matt: "It kind of happened very quickly, I'm sorry."
Ashley: All right, do some people need to be healed?
Taliesin: Oh, dear.
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Kima, for sure.
Orion: I'm actually okay.
Marisha: I'm all right. I'm all right.
Taliesin: I'm fine.
Sam: Oh, Grog's got a burnt face.
Travis: No, I want to wear this pain as a remembrance of my beard.
Laura: You can grow it back, Grog.
Orion: It's okay, big fella.
Matt: You make your way back up to the main chamber, where High Bearer Vord is currently waiting for you.
Sam: Oh, this guy.
Matt: He turns to you as you enter. "So I am to assume that your journey was a success?"
Orion: Yes, surprisingly so. It went off without a hitch. Well, no.
Laura: You've got some good security down there.
Marisha: Very good.
Matt: "I told you. Once it's instilled, it will be safe."
Laura: A little warning next time would be great.
Ashley: 25 points of healing.
Matt: There you go.
Orion: You're really a girl on fire now.
Marisha: That really heals me up, then.
Taliesin: That will top me off very nicely.
Marisha: I'll take that.
Orion: Well done, everyone, by the way.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: That could've gone worse.
Marisha: It could have gone worse.
Matt: At which point, the High Bearer Vord kind of raises his hand. "Yonn, if you do not mind." And Yonn kind of shuffles forward.
Sam: Yonn.
Orion: Such a bore.
Marisha: Yawn.
Matt: "Excuse me, I'm right here."
Orion: It was a play on words. Your name also means something that you do when you're tired.
Marisha: Yeah!
Matt: "I don't like you." (laughter)
Matt: He reaches out and puts a big old sack of coins in your hands.
Laura: Oh! I'll hold onto that.
Orion: Of course.
Taliesin: We should mention, you may have to have one of the rooms repaired.
Orion: I take a couple out.
Taliesin: The spinning column--
Sam: Circle of death.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: May have gotten--
Laura: A little broken. We thought were maybe just disarming it but I think we probably broke it.
Taliesin: We put an arrow into it.
Travis: (tearfully) If you find the remnants of a glorious beard, preserve it.
Laura: Oh, Grog, actually--
Travis: What?
Laura: I've got some remnants of a lovely beard. And I try to smush it onto his chin.
Travis: It is not the same.
Matt: It is not the same.
Laura: It looks pretty good.
Matt: It is not the same.
Laura: Dang it.
Matt: At which point, the High Bearer turns to you, Pike. "Mighty cleric, I see this meeting, though it escaped my vision before, that you bear the holy sigil of the Dawnflower, the Lady of Redemption Herself. While we may walk under different stars, I offer these words that caught my ear naught but a week ago. In an excavation beneath the toppled tower of Syrac, the long-cursed ruin that sat like a blemish upon this city for hundreds of years, it was revealed that perhaps the five holy paths that began here at Vasselheim, there may indeed now be a sixth."
Sam: What?
Matt: "A forgotten temple to Sarenrae has been uncovered. Crumbled, lost, and without light, it sat, forever and a day, and few are around in this city of her guiding flame to recover and restore its glory. Perhaps you should look into it."
Ashley: I will gladly look into it.
Matt: "The ruin lies to the west of here, at the base of the city's mountain. Look for the dark stone ruin. Nevertheless, I thank you for your time. Kima, if you wouldn't mind, we have some things to discuss as well."
Marisha: Oh, quick, Vorg--
Matt: "Vord. High Bearer Vord."
Marisha: Vord.
Taliesin: Vord.
Laura: Highbearer Vord.
Matt: "Was that so hard? Yes?"
Marisha: Vord? You wouldn't have happened to hear of maybe a druid tribe called the Fire Ashari? They call their little hometown Pyrah. Do you happen to know, maybe?
Matt: He gives you a keen look and says, "There has been talk of a rogue band of druids, not more than two day's travel, in the-- let's see, where did I put the maps here?" He thinks to himself for a moment, considering it. "Towards the Sunder Peak Mountain Range. Dangerous territory, fraught with volcanic activity. Yet these folks seem to call it home."
Marisha: Is Sunder Peak like west or east to where we--
Matt: "Southwest of the city. It's hard to miss."
Marisha: Southwest.
Matt: "Look for the plumes of sulfurous smoke."
Laura: Is the temple to Sarenrae on the way to the--
Matt: "The temple to Sarenrae is on the same mountain that this temple is built on."
Laura: Oh.
Matt: "To the west of here. Follow the mountain base."
Marisha: Oh. So we can stop there first?
Orion: Yes, it's close, it seems.
Laura: All of us can--
Orion: Before we part, you seem to be quite learned about many things that I am not. Have you ever heard of anything called the God's Hammer or the Pale Stone? Or any particular artifact, Ropes of Mercy, perhaps?
Matt: "I can't say I have, unfortunately."
Orion: Of course.
Matt: "But I shall keep this in mind, should the information come my way."
Orion: Thank you. I bow.
Matt: He gives you a look, a quick glance, and notes: "For the record, while your color is not what it was when you first entered, know that the great Platinum Dragon sees through this guise to the heart beneath."
Orion: Yes, thank you for noticing. I agree with the same sentiment. And I bow in the Draconic fashion.
Matt: "Well, Kima. Business. Thank you all very much." And he kind of lends his hands out. As he extends his hand, the doors on the opposite side of the room open up.
Laura: Magic. Thought it was banned.
Matt: For the sake of brevity, because we have people who have to leave on this, very soon, it doesn't take you long to find your way across the city. You find some of the city's Bastions standing guard on the outskirts of this crumpled tower ruin. It's like, black and soot-covered stone that looks like a plot of land that has been left untouched. Like, once it fell, no one wanted anything to do with it. You speak with the Bastions and they eventually let you through, especially given the aid of those you've walked with since arrival. You come to the ruin and you can see there's about a 40-foot gap in this pile of stone that is a recess in the ground, almost like a small sinkhole. It looks like there is some sort of excavation that has been set here. Very haphazard. There is very simple wood boards that have been placed into the side of this small sinkhole to allow relatively comfortable, though a bit rickety, descent into the structure. As you make your way down, your eyes adjust to the little bit of daylight that spills into this dark subterranean cavern. There before you, you see a surprisingly glorious sight: a simple structure of brass and polished limestone, ancient as the day is long. One of the walls has partially collapsed, and you see what looks like three figures rummaging through the debris. An older human woman, who is being helped by two others: a young man of blond hair and simple clothes and an older gnome that's carrying a crutch under his arm. They're all in the process of collecting and setting aside and cleaning up various things that have been recovered from this temple. You immediately see against the brass structure the very simplified symbol of the wings of Sarenrae, multiple times across the structure in various incarnations. This is very much indeed a lost temple of Sarenrae.
Laura: (whispers) Wow, Pike.
Ashley: (whispers) Wow.
Sam: So, when you've fully excavated it, you can come back and check it out.
Ashley: Yes...
Orion: Or you can stay here and restore it.
Matt: At which point, the older woman sees you guys walk down and says, "Please! There's nothing to take. Nothing but history and rock, I guarantee you. Bandits are not welcome here."
Ashley: No no no! I take out my symbol and I say, no no no, I'm here to help.
Matt: You can hear an audible gasp from her. She says, "My eyes don't deceive. Oh my, I am sorry. My name is Gesyra, a simple painter, but one of, as far as I know, the three devoted to the Lady of the Everlight here in Vasselheim. And now a fourth. I don't know where you came from, but would you stay with us for a bit and help us rebuild? Bring her name into the light amongst the others here in Vasselheim? Restore it to its glory?"
Ashley: (tearfully) Yes. Oh, man, I don't want to leave you guys.
Matt: "It shouldn't take long, especially with your help. And we can bring the light into the heart of others." And you can see the two other kind of joined her at the side and they all look at you with this look of hope that you can probably tell from the crinkles in their face they haven't had in quite some time. And they look up to you in their simple clothes as the first true strong bastion for Sarenrae that they've seen in a long time. With that, Pike, you get to turn to the rest of the group.
Ashley: Well, I think this is a pilgrimage I have to take. So, Vox Machina, keep your eyes out. I will contact you every once in a while if I can, and we will meet up once this is completed. All in.
Travis: Right.
Ashley: Vox Machina on three. One, two, three.
All: Vox Machina.
Orion: (tearfully) You will be missed very much, Pike.
Ashley: I'm going to miss you guys very much.
Matt: And on that note, we have to close because people are in a rush. Yeah, Ashley will be leaving us for a time. She's going to New York for a few months to shoot a web-- a television series. (laughter)
Sam: A little web series.
Matt: A wonderful television series she has recurring. We're really happy and proud of her-- we're just a jumble of emotions under the circumstances.
Ashley: You guys have been so amazing and have made this experience even better for us, and thank you so much for going with us on our journey. It will keep going, but I will be back when I can.
Orion: You will be back.
Laura: You'll be back.
Taliesin: You'll be back.
Orion: She will be back.
Ashley: But it might be a long time.
Matt: Yeah, she'll pop in and out if she can, and there will eventually be a return of Pike, but for the time being she feels the calling to stay and help rebuild this temple of Sarenrae.
Marisha: We're going to miss you, Pike.
Ashley: I'm going to miss you guys.
Marisha: But we understand personal journeys.
Ashley: Personal journey.
Travis: You have a good time.
Ashley: I will.
Sam: Pike, I, Scanlan, will not physically wait for you, but emotionally-- (laughter)
Sam: Emotionally I will wait for you, and I will not stray emotionally. I will always be there for you emotionally.
Ashley: Okay, Scanlan.
Sam: But physically, I mean, come on, it's going to be months.
Matt: Thank you so much, Ash. We're going to miss you but we'll tabs and we'll have you back soon.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: All right. Thank you all so much for watching. Everyone give Ashley love on the Twitter, on the internet.
Travis: Good going, Ashley!
Matt: And we'll see you guys at Comic-Con next week. Those that'll be at Anime Expo, I'll be there tomorrow for a couple of panels.
Zac: Buy those shirts!
Sam: Oh, yeah, buy the shirts.
Matt: Six more days for the Critical Role shirts before they go away.
Laura: Hey, it's still got Pike on it, you gotta get it now.
All: Yeah.
Sam: Collector's edition.
Ashley: Definitely limited edition.
Matt: All right, guys, thank you and have a wonderful evening, we've got to let these guys go. We'll see you-- me and Marisha will see you in three weeks.
Orion: See us at Comic-Con.
Marisha: We'll see you at Comic-Con.
Matt: The others will see you in two. All right. Have a wonderful night, guys.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone! Welcome to Critical Role. After a two-week hiatus of our usual gaming schedule at Comic Con and then a fun-filled crazy week with half the party playing games and having fun while me and Marisha were in New Zealand, we're happy to be back. We're happy you guys are here as we continue our adventure going forward. We'll have a lot of really cool things to announce here in a moment, but let's go ahead and get that intro video started. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back. All right, this is Critical Role: a show where a bunch of voice actors play Dungeons and Dragons. Fun crazy nerds rolling dice and good times. With the adventures of Vox Machina. You're doing all right Travis. Couple quick things: Me and Marisha wanted to say a quick shout out to all of our Critters who came to visit us in Wellington, New Zealand at Armageddon Expo. We had a strong showing of Critters that was really amazing from across the world. And Australia. People could fly over from Australia just to get us to sign their books, so there's a lot of really awesome fan love out there. So you guys are great.
Marisha: Maybe next time all of us could go? You guys should tell them.
Matt: Oh man, a Down Under Kiwi trip for all Critical Role would be a lot of fun. Send your local-- I guess you don't have a congressman, because you're a different country.
Orion: Your "Con-gressman."
Matt: Oh there you go. Orion saved it. Thank you.
Orion: It was there the whole time, Matt. (laughter)
Matt: Disadvantage. All right, so first and foremost, couple things I want to get up here. We had our sub giveaways this evening. For every 50 subs, we give away a signed player's handbook by the cast of Critical Role, a signed photo of the cast. And tonight especially we're also giving away in that package Espionage nail packs, specifically with our fantastic gamer dice on the tips. Espionage Cosmetics were gracious to give these to us, and we will give them to you. Every 50 subs.
Marisha: Awesome. Go follow them on Twitter; I think they're @espionagemakeup. Just look it up. They're awesome.
Matt: Google it. However, we already have a winner, before the show started. That's explodingiggy. So congratulations to explodingiggy. You already got one more to come. The fun and interesting challenge for this evening as we've been made aware, you guys, being the ridiculously amazing people you are. One of you crafted a challenge for yourself. That if we can manage to somehow get to 5,000 subscribers before the end of the show tonight, they will create and send an eight-foot Trinket. Like eight-foot-tall Trinket bear.
Marisha: Yeah which is vague. A little. What's it made out of?
Zac: It's a teddy bear. It's a giant teddy bear.
Laura: And maybe his little paws can be on my shoulder the whole time I play?
Matt: Oh, he would be a perpetual staple of the set. That would be behind you at all times.
Zac: Cool, not difficult at all, guys! Totally not difficult at all!
Marisha: Yes, but we have to get to 5,000 subscribers.
Taliesin: Trojan horse and a suit that they wear. They could sneak themselves onto the stage that way.
Matt: I'll get inside the teddy bear, and I'll act out Trinket during the game. Perfect. That's not going to happen. It might happen. That's if we hit 5000 subscribers, so all your friends you know that watch the show who don't subscribe yet, tell them to. If you know anyone that hasn't seen the show yet, get them on, because a giant eight-foot bear would be pretty much the most ridiculous thing ever.
Marisha: Yeah, I already tweeted #8ftTrinket.
Laura: I saw something subs for bears.
Orion: Nope. Bad idea.
Matt: (laughs) Yeah, subs for bears is a whole section of Craigslist you don't want to go to. Or you do, if that's your thing. All right, so. Happy to be back from Comic Con. We had a great panel and great turnout there. Thank you for those who came and those who watched the panel. If you haven't seen it yet, the panel is available on the Geek and Sundry website. You can watch it. And as we all know, last episode we said goodbye temporarily to our fantastic gnome cleric, Pike. She's off in New York shooting awesome television shows, but she's here in spirit.
Liam: It's going to be great.
Laura: It's going to be a good show.
Matt: Also, as a reminder, our charity that we run here for the show is to 826LA. 826LA is a fantastic charity that promotes and teaches creative writing to younger kids between the ages of 8 and 16, I think it was. Somewhere in that range?
Marisha: K through High School.
Matt: K through High School. Fantastic program, and anything you can do to help is much appreciated and awesome. And, Marisha, if you want to go ahead and take this away. We have a new addition to our set coming next week.
Marisha: It's so awesome! I had the absolute pleasure of joining Felicia on the latest episode of The Flog. Go check it out. It's back. I love that show. She wanted to make a neon sign, and she was like, "Let's do a Critical Role sign." Because she's a fan of our show, which is awesome. She's probably watching right now. Love you, Felicia. So this was it, unfortunately. Yes, are we ready to do the honors? Ready? For Vox Machina! (cheering)
Marisha: So yeah, that's probably going to be up on our set next week, blessing us with its rose-colored glow. Go watch, if you want to see how we made it. We got this awesome tutorial. It's cool. You can go and learn how to make neon signs yourself.
Orion: And it's all science-y too.
Marisha: It's all science-y. It's totally nerdy awesome. Yeah, krypton. But yes. Here we go. All right, say bye-bye to the sign for now.
Matt: It'll be back.
Zac: Hey, Matt. We already have another 50 winner. (laughter)
Zac: It was SonicaMoto.
Matt: SonicaMoto is our new winner, already. Congratulations, SonicaMoto.
Liam: We need less than 300 subs for that bear. I think we can do that. I think that's pretty likely.
Marisha: You get nail wraps.
Matt: You get a bear behind us for the rest of the show.
Marisha: You get a player's handbook signed by us.
Taliesin: Encourage this. Oh no, encourage this. (laughs) I encourage bear.
Orion: (laughing) I do encourage... Nope. Okay. I am a trained comedian. That is not a thing.
Matt: Last but not least, before we get started, we do have one guest in the studio who's been watching for a bit tonight. Our good friend, Joré is over here from quite a distance. We met him at Comic Con.
Travis: Put your head right here.
Matt: A fantastically talented artist. For those of you who have seen my profile picture on Twitter or Facebook, the really amazing artwork of me as a dungeon master, this is the man that did it. Where can they see your work online?
Jore: I have a Facebook--
Marisha: Drop down.
Orion: Drop down.
Jore: There's a Facebook page. You can search J-O-R-E on Facebook, and that's probably me. If you see Matt's picture, then that's me.
Travis: And my Grog raging one with blood covering his face. (growls)
Matt: Go ahead and have a seat.
Marisha: Speaking of amazing artists. We want to do a shout out.
Orion: There's a couple more announcements. This one.
Marisha: This one, yes.
Orion: Our wonderful artists. Kit Buss and...
Marisha: Kit Buss and Wendy Doodles. Wendy Green. They're awesome friends of ours and fans of the show. They do amazing work. They've done a lot of the character work that you've seen, and they're going to be doing a lot more, and we just wanted to really appreciate them and show them some love, so yes. Go follow.
Orion: Our artists. As Laura would say.
Laura: That's good. That's very see-able.
Marisha: Okay. Is it see-able now? I want to make sure. Go follow them. They deserve it.
Matt: They've been really amazing. I know many of you have asked about what's the backstory to Vox Machina? What's that history before the stream started? We're working on something. It may take a little bit, but one or more of those artists may be involved. But when we do have that available to you, it should be really cool, and I hope you'll enjoy it. Anyway.
Orion: Oh, also, since this is fantasy, I'd like to announce that my show went pretty well that's on Mondays, 7-10 on this channel.
Taliesin: You have a show? What kind of show is it?
Orion: Ooh, I'm glad you asked, Taliesin. It is me and Jessica Merizan playing Final Fantasy XIV. We just found each other in the same world. There's a free company we're going to start. You can come on and join if you're already subscribing. We do giveaways for subscribers who are watching and active in the chat during the show for stuff with Square Enix. It's all good times. I'm happy to say that Taliesin, man, Thancred is still in this version of Final Fantasy XIV, so you can check his work out too, and he's awesome. The funny thing is I didn't know your character was like a badass. So I was listening to him and I was like "Oh fuck". Yeah, he's great. So check it out. Every Monday 7-10 on the channel.
Matt: There you go. Also all you League fans out there, I hope you're enjoying your new Bilgewater update. Anyone else have any announcements they want to make?
Laura: Oh we're going to be at Otakon this weekend in Baltimore. Come say hi! We're leaving right after this.
Taliesin: I've got a tiny announcement, which is Ant-Man the movie is really good. If you like Ant-Man the movie, you can hear me as Ant-Man, being not nearly as funny, in the pinball game. I'm not nearly as funny as Paul Rudd.
Orion: Oh pish posh.
Zac: Matt? We've got another giveaway.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Marisha: (singing) Eight-foot Trinket, here we come!
Zac: OhGreatLampShade.
Matt: OhGreatLampShade is the winner of our next giveaway.
Liam: OhGreatLampShade, we thank thee for thy mercy.
Matt: Congratulations. Player's Handbook signed, picture signed, and nail wraps. And a step closer to giant eight-foot Trinket.
Travis: Don't do it. No more.
Liam: Are you sad that you will no longer be the tallest member of our group?
Laura: I feel like we're just delaying starting because we're going to have to face that fact that Pike isn't with us as soon as we start.
Travis: And Scanlan's still in the pooper. He's not really.
Marisha: Yeah, where is Scanlan?
Liam: He's shitting on a bed somewhere. It's his thing.
Matt: Is he on his way?
Laura: He's on his way, yeah.
Matt: Well when he arrives... In the meantime--
Travis: Where are you going?
Orion: I'm going to get something to drink.
Laura: He's getting a drink.
Matt: Okay. As Tiberius has an aneurysm and falls to the ground--
Travis: Yes! I go over and provide very vigorous CPR. No mouth to mouth, just that hand part.
Matt: Yeah. All right, make a death save.
Orion: What? Ow! (cheering)
Orion: And I brought Scanlan with me.
Marisha: (laughs) Like a trailing fart.
Travis: (laughing) "Like a trailing fart."
Orion: That couldn't have worked out better.
Sam: Oh really?
Laura: What is he wearing?
Travis: "Asp Hole?" What does it say? "Where you" what?
Sam: It's the Asp Hole.
Liam: Asp. Hole.
Sam: It's just a bar that I like to go to. Down at the Asp Hole.
Liam: And I got shit for talking about bears today.
Matt: No, I'm pretty sure that's somewhere in Emon. (laughter)
Travis: And we'll find it.
Sam: Yeah, we'll find the Asp Hole.
Matt: Yeah, so let's actually start this game, guys. Thank you for being patient with our intro here. We've been gone for two weeks. We have a lot to talk about, so thank you for letting us get that out. So picking up where we left off, the party completed the venture of taking the horn of Orcus to a place of safety and sealing it away, hopefully for eternity, with the help of Lady Kima, to the scalebearers. After heading to the basement of the Platinum Sanctuary in the city of Vasselheim, they've succeeded to do so. Vasselheim, which is a distant city to the far northwest of the continent they're used to. This city is a very devout, religion-based city, and currently considered the oldest bastion of civilization in the known civilized world. After taking a skyship across the ocean to get there, sealing the Horn, you guys also discover upon doing so that the ruins, long-forgotten ruins, of what appears to be an ancient temple to Sarenrae were recently discovered. While Sarenrae does not have a strong following in this city, the few that are trying to raise it ask for Pike's help to stay back and help build it and bring it to its former glory. Hopefully to re-establish a basis of worship in this city, and she decided to help these folks. The party then steps away from the ruins of the tower, sad but understanding of the circumstance.
Liam: Perhaps we could sit on a nearby rooftop and watch Pike work.
Laura: Just for the next eight months?
Travis: I'd be all right with that.
Marisha: That's not creepy at all.
Matt: Critical Role all of a sudden becomes the greatest grass-watching game of all time. As you all stand there, you have to decide your next course of action. You stand in the muddy road, taking in the cold dusk air as the sun slowly sets to the west. Now, this area of the city has a vastly different feel than the Platinum Sanctuary. In the haste to make it to the ruin, you've passed out of the section that seems to be under Bahamut's watch and into a different area. In this area, most of the buildings are reinforced with ruddy iron plates. Plumes of smoke rise up from a handful of heavy smokestacks. You can see over the rooftops in the distance toward the center of this section what looks like a massive dark red statue of a muscular bearded man.
Liam: The beauty of this game is I have no idea what the shit we're going to do right now.
Sam: So we're standing outside the place where we just left Pike?
Matt: Yeah, the ruins of the tower.
Marisha: So we're essentially standing in the middle of a town being like, now what?
Laura: Should we go look at that statue, then?
Taliesin: I want to see if there's an inscription.
Matt: If you'd like to.
Taliesin: Yes, that would be lovely.
Sam: While he's doing that, Scanlan is feeling still terribly sad about leaving Pike. So overcome with emotion that he must step into the ruins one last time, just to see the place where she's going to be for the next several months, years. And before I do so, I drink one of my potions that I bought from what's-his-butt. Gilmore, the glorious Gilmore. Yes.
Matt: All right.
Sam: I don't know how it works, but I'm going to drink it anyway.
Matt: Okay, you drink it.
Sam: Okay, I drink it. I go inside the ruins and look around and touch some of the walls and look at the stonework and everything. I want to see where she's going to be so I know she's safe. Overcome with a little bit of verklempt emotion, I shed a single tear.
Matt: As you quietly take this moment to yourself amongst the ruins, you can hear the clattering of stonework as the small band of Sarenrae worshipers are now being helped by Pike, who's gathered them into a plan as to how to remove and restore portions of the building that are currently visible from the dirt and earth that it's embedded in. Hearing her voice echo through the hallway, it's a very comforting sense. You feel a rumbling in your stomach.
Sam: I feel uncomfortable. It must be the emotion.
Matt: It's probably the emotion.
Sam: I find a side chamber or a little nook. Somewhere where I can have some privacy.
Matt: Okay. You find your way back towards the makeshift wooden plank stairway and there was a small alcove not far from there within the earth wall that looks to be relatively private. There's little to no light, and it does have a view of the current ruin.
Sam: I say a little prayer, and I take a big dump on the floor.
Travis: (laughing) No you do not!
Sam: Well, my stomach was rumbling.
Travis: (laughing) You're in a temple, man!
Laura: Pike's probably going to have to be the one to clean that up!
Sam: Sometimes it just affects me. I have weak nerves. And as I'm squatting, I hum to myself. (singing) How do I say goodbye to what we almost had?
Orion: This is not romantic at all, you know that, right?
Matt: Welcome back, guys.
Marisha: I've missed you guys so much.
Matt: As you finish your business, you step away from the alcove back to the stairway. The contents of the potion seem to have had some effect, as the remnants of what you leave behind have a very soft blue glowing hue to them.
Sam: I left a magic dump.
Travis: Do we need to collect the dump?
Sam: Nope. We should leave the dump.
Laura: Are you going to be able to see through the dump?
Travis: He's covering his face. I think we need the blue shit.
Marisha: Can you cast Detect Magic on the poo?
Sam: It's already magical poo.
Orion: Are we there? We're not there.
Laura: We're not there. It's just Scanlan.
Orion: Okay. So he's just shitting.
Laura: He's just leaving it.
Sam: So I leave and rejoin my fellows, wiping the tear from my eye and the poo from my bottom.
Orion: Well, I love you Ashley. I do.
Marisha: This is what happens when we don't have any direction.
Travis: But what's the purpose of the potion? To make your poo blue?
Sam: I took a potion that will let me see through my poo and check in on Pike from time to time.
Laura: Will she realize you can see her through the poop?
Sam: I certainly hope not.
Laura: Wouldn't that be great if she could just talk to you through the poo?
Liam: Why aren't the priests going to shovel that shit up?
Sam: As long as some of my cellular remains are there, I might be able to see a little bit into the room.
Liam: What's "cellular?"
Sam: (laughs) It's poo.
Liam: Oh, you mean little flakes of poo.
Matt: For the sake of brevity in story progression here, and to dissuade a 30-minute conversation about Scanlan's excrement. After you've rejoined the party, the sun is now set. The cold air is beginning to really sweep in through the streets. The clouds overhead begin to slowly rumble and you can hear distant thunder, and you get the feeling due to the moisture in the air, you're not too far away from a rain.
Laura: Should we bunk for the night before we head out in the morning?
Taliesin: I say we head to the ship.
Travis: Wasn't there a guy with a red beard we were supposed to go see?
Laura: I wanted to wander over to the statue while Scanlan was dumping.
Sam: I feel great right now, by the way.
Taliesin: Finding some relief in the situation.
Orion: Damn it. Just when I was starting to like you, gnome.
Liam: Moving on. Let's go take a look at this statue.
Matt: (chuckling) All right.
Sam: It's magic poo!
Liam: Don't change, Scanlan.
Matt: As you guys make your way through the center of this district--
Laura: I feel like it's dark now.
Matt: Yeah. You get the sense that this area, most of the people that live in this area are more rough-and-tumble than the already-rough people who live in Vasselheim, from what you've encountered. The buildings themselves all seem to be reinforced with iron plates and it looks like there is a very heavy trade in metalwork, and a lot of the construction of anything metallic appears to be coming through or from this portion of the town. As you approach closer to this statue, it's not just a statue. You see it is actually sitting atop what looks to be a large, blocky fortress-like temple. Unlike the Platinum Sanctuary, which is a very beautiful but simple array, this one has a crenellated top to each of these walled structures. You can see braziers blasting flame every 20 or so feet along the top of it. You can see, as you approach the front of this, there are two giant stone doorways with steps that look up to it and what looks to be two gargantuan war horns that spiral along the sides and then open up outward towards the entire city in front of it. I'm going to ask you guys to make a religion check, if you could.
Travis: Oh, I got this.
Orion: Natural 20!
Taliesin: Yeah! Natural 20.
Taliesin: Boom!
Orion: Boom!
Orion: That's so cool.
Travis: Natural four.
Taliesin: Because we know our shit.
Matt: As you guys begin your approach, even in the darkness, you can see the figure, this human-like man. Barrel-chested. Massive muscles. What looks almost like iron bracers around his wrists. He is carved or sculpted from solid iron or plates that have been put together from some sort of iron initial structure. The beard is long and goes to about mid-chest. He carries in one hand this long, thick shortsword and has furs and leathers about his legs and midsection. You recognize this to be a very hefty depiction of the deity Kord.
Laura: Kord?
Sam: Kord?
Travis: Kord?
Travis: I admire his beard.
Matt: It is a beard worth admiring.
Marisha: How might one spell Kord?
Matt: K-O-R-D.
Marisha: Simple. I like that.
Sam: He's a god of some sort?
Matt: He is, indeed.
Taliesin: Tell us of this Kord. Try to find your notes of this Kord.
Laura: He's a dwarven god?
Matt: Not dwarven.
Liam: A man. Human.
Matt: Kord is essentially a deity of warfare, combat, and storms. A god that has been long-worshipped by tribal cultures from long past that enjoyed the essence of battle and challenge and combat.
Liam: Did you say storms, Tiberius? War and combat and storms?
Orion: Storms, yes. Storms and winds.
Matt: And quickly, the motif of this section of the town comes into play. This, you assume, is the portion of the city that is dedicated to the temple of Kord, this being the structure before you.
Marisha: Does it seem to be a central theme across the whole town? This town worships Kord?
Matt: No. You've only really been to two sections. The first one you were brought to was primarily under the worship of Bahamut, the Platinum Dragon.
Marisha: Okay. (giggles)
Taliesin: Getting the giggles out.
Travis: Did you look at it? Did you use your fancy eyes to look at it?
Taliesin: Well, my question is, is this a temple? If it is a temple to Kord, is this a place of battle? Is this somewhere where people go watch battles and fighting?
Matt: From the exterior, and it is a closed-off temple, it looks like a large, blocky, obstinate fortress that is nearly impenetrable from the way it's constructed and reinforced. You don't know what's inside of it.
Liam: There's a big gate or door at the front?
Matt: Two large iron doors about 20 feet tall that are currently shut. It's about five or six steps getting up to it.
Laura: And it's nighttime?
Matt: It is nighttime currently, yes.
Liam: Are there any citizens out right now, or are we alone in the dark?
Matt: As it has gotten to dusk, it's thinned out a little bit, but there are a few individuals walking by, carrying pickaxes over one shoulder and passing by.
Liam: I'd like to walk over to the nearest one and ask.
Sam: To who?
Liam: To a passerby.
Matt: The two gentlemen, one's in his mid-20s. The one that turns to you initially probably looks a little older than that. Late 30s, grizzled. Shaven, but the five-o'clock shadow has definitely kicked in. Longer, tousled hair, dirt on the face. Simple clothing, pickaxe over his shoulder and what looks like a leather belt that carries other tools.
Sam: These are dwarves?
Matt: These are human. "Yes? I heard you calling."
Liam: Excuse me, good sir. My friend over here, the dragonborn. He seems to think that this is some sort of temple or edifice to the god Kord. I just want to know, is he correct?
Matt: "Is this your first time in the Braving Grounds?"
Orion: In Dwarvish, I say--
Sam: They're not dwarves.
Matt: You can still say it, though. (laughter)
Liam: Yes, absolutely! This is our first time. We literally just rolled into Vasselheim. What can you tell us of this? It's an impressive structure.
Matt: The younger gentleman next to him, similarly dressed, begins to speak up. He puts his hand up and goes, "The Braving Grounds is the area of this city that is built around the worship of the great god Kord. His protection and strength he bestows upon those who live for the sake of challenge. To prove oneself better with each passing day, that is the basis of the Braving Grounds."
Laura: So it's like a battleground?
Matt: "It's a community that when called to battle can definitely defend itself. What you see before you--" He looks up at the giant structure. "This is called the Trial Forge. It is the oldest known temple to Kord and has been built and rebuilt for many, many hundreds of years."
Orion: (chuckles) Hence forge, right?
Liam: And does one need to be a priest or cleric of this faith to challenge oneself? Or can anyone--
Travis: Worship?
Matt: "Anyone is able to worship what deity they wish in this town. We have an understanding. If you're looking for a tussle, what you're looking for is the Crucible."
Travis: Yes. What else can you tell us about this Crucible?
Matt: "The Crucible is a fighting pit. I mean, there is a sacred arena within the temple, but that's reserved for very, very special occasions. If you're looking to just get your fight on and punch someone in the face, the Crucible is what you're looking for." He spits off to the side and points a little ways down the roadway.
Marisha: I think Grog wants to go.
Matt: "Beyond that way, you'll see a tavern known as the Bellows' Respite."
Sam: Bellows' Respite.
Matt: "One of the finer inns you'll find in the Braving Grounds proper, but I take it if you walk that direction, you'll see the Crucible before too long."
Laura: Have you ever fought in the Crucible?
Matt: "Me? No. Too busy. Too many people better fighters than me in there. I'll just stick to the mines."
Marisha: Are these battles to the death?
Matt: "Nah. These are battles of honor. Death belongs in a true war. Mind you, there have been some folks unfortunately who may have fallen to a hit on the head too hard, and that's understandable. But the purpose of Kord is not necessarily to smite your foes unless they've given you damn good reason. Other than that, contest of strength is how we live."
Orion: A friendly sparring match is what we're about.
Liam: That's this neighborhood of Vasselheim, not the city as a whole, just in these parts?
Matt: "For the most part. I mean, we have members of our community that are Bastions and guard the whole city, but we tend to keep our own--" (off-screen crash)
Matt: "Pardon my friend. He's clumsy." And the other gentleman picks up his tools and is like, "Sorry."
Travis: Have you been to this Crucible often, and if so, is there a champion or a favorite that you've seen or know of?
Matt: "We have some people come in and out. Probably best to ask around the Crucible, to be honest. I've seen some people take some serious beatings down there. I haven't kept much attention to it. I haven't the money to sling around it."
Laura: The money? Wait, it costs money?
Matt: "What, you think there's going to be fights in a pit and no one's betting on it? Welcome to Vasselheim, my dear."
Travis: We're going to be rich!
Orion: What if there are two people fighting the town does not know?
Matt: "I don't know. Take it up at the Crucible."
Travis: How far is the Crucible from here?
Matt: "Keep walking. You'll see it."
Laura: Keep walking? Thank you, friend.
Matt: "My pleasure. Kord's strength to you." And he keeps on walking.
Travis: Kord's strength.
Sam: Kord's strength to you.
Matt: No, core strength.
Laura: Sit-ups. Crunches.
Travis: Core strength to you. Namaste.
Matt: You guys walk beyond the Trial Forge, back towards the path where you came off to the side on the left and you can see most of the buildings, their internal lighting is very low; you can see most folks either go to bed at this evening or at least keep a very low visual profile from their abodes. However, lights are blazing from the interior of this three-story inn. The Bellows' Respite is definitely a rowdy place. You can hear already the shouts and music streaming from the interior of it. You gather that, while there are a lot of people inside you can see at the windows and openings to the inside of the tavern, there is a large group gathered in the middle of the thoroughfare just outside of it. Looks like a circle of individuals that are all shouting and screaming over each other, big fist-pumps to the air, some folks are angrily throwing their coin purses to the ground.
Travis: Like a kid getting too close to an amusement park, I take off running.
Matt: Grog starts running up, bounding up the way, you can see the actual--
Marisha: Grog? Grog, not too far ahead!
Travis: Okay!
Liam: I don't start running, but I'm following behind him and I take out my Keen Dagger and just start sort of dancing it across my hand as I follow after him.
Matt: David Bowie and the glass orb.
Liam: Yes, exactly.
Orion: Is there a registry or something like that?
Matt: Actually, as you approach you can see there is no registry, there is quite literally a pit in the ground. It's a 15, 20-foot dip. It is a carved-out pit, maybe no more than I'd say 25, 30 feet across. And there is no ladder, there is no step going down, there's just two people in there beating the ever-living crap out of each other and a crowd of people gathering around. You do see what looks to be two very well-dressed gentlemen that are in the process of collecting and paying out, and you approach just as the final hit takes to this gentleman's jaw, this tattooed individual, you can see bloodied in the face, nose broken, teeth knocked out, this poor, poor human fellow gets knocked clean onto the ground. You can see standing over his body this extremely built, aggressive, looks like another human female with her hair pulled back in a very tight ponytail just spits on his body, turns around and wipes the blood from the front of her face. Snaps her fingers, and you can see folks bring a ladder and lean it over the side and she climbs up the ladder as everyone cheers on her way up.
Marisha: Before we get up to the crowd, I transform into Minxie. I'm going Minxie. And I catch up to Grog. Going Minxie.
Travis: Oh, they don't like magic.
Marisha: Did they see me? I'm trying to do it stealthily before it happens.
Matt: You can make a stealth check if you like. You do know through the discussions that it's arcane magic that seems to be the shunned element in this town. As it is a town of worship, divine magic for the most part seems okay.
Marisha: Everyone saw me. It's fine.
Matt: Everyone would've seen you if they weren't currently enraptured by the chaos. Those who did notice probably didn't seem to care much other than a giant tiger now walks up to them.
Travis: Can I grab the nearest person near me, turn whoever's shoulder that is, and go, who is she?
Matt: As you pull the shoulder around, you can see a rather portly human fellow, balding on top with long Benjamin Franklin-looking hair. Very nice robes, turns. "Are you new to this town, then, is it?"
Travis: Yeah, very new.
Matt: "That's the Siren. The Siren."
Orion: I approach and saunter next to Grog.
Travis: The Siren?
Matt: "She's the one you bet on. Trust me on that." As he walks over to, you can see another one of these gentlemen, very well-dressed, hair slicked back. Tall, thin human in very, very fine purple robes, collects some people's money, begins giving out a few things, pulls out a notebook with a little charter he's in the middle of putting notes in.
Laura: Hello. How would we enter a new fighter into this pit?
Matt: "Well, actually, that was the last fighter scheduled for the evening."
Travis: Be a pity not to have one more.
Matt: "You wish to fight?"
Travis: Wish? It's more like an itch. A need.
Matt: He puts his arm out and the crowd steps back a bit and he takes a good, long head-to-toe up-and-down look at you, walks around from side to side inspecting you. He gets a little bit close and reaches out, not even asking, he starts grabbing the side of your arms.
Marisha: I start growling a little bit.
Travis: Oh yeah, watch out.
Matt: "Calm down, kitty, calm down." Steps back. "Well, it's not too late. What caliber of fighter do you consider yourself?"
Travis: Caliber?
Matt: "Who do you want to fight?"
Sam: Who are the options?
Orion: Could he fight anyone?
Travis: This is my friend, Scanlan.
Sam: I'm more of his manager than his friend, actually. Hi, I'm Scanlan.
Matt: "Pleasure."
Sam: Pleasure's all mine. My brute over here, who can he battle, what are his options?
Matt: "This late in the evening--"
Liam: I'll fight him.
Sam: Excuse me?
Liam: I said I'll fight him.
Matt: "I apologize. If you're going to have someone enter the arena worth betting on, they have to go up against one of our proven fighters first. However, once your friend here gets his face beaten in, you're more than welcome to join him in the ring thereafter."
Travis: I haven't laughed so hard in my entire life. Face beaten, he says. Face beaten!
Matt: "You're mighty confident, aren't you?"
Travis: It's my middle-- I only have one name. (laughter)
Travis: If I did.
Sam: It would be that.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: "Well, first and foremost, all bets begin at 100 gold pieces."
Laura: 100 gold? Is that all?
Matt: "You can increase the bet, if you'd like."
Laura: I'd love to.
Matt: "What would you like to bet?"
Laura: 500 gold on this one right here.
Matt: "Is she the only one betting?"
Sam: She bets for all of us.
Liam: I'll put a thousand down right now that I can beat the big guy.
Sam: You mean Grog?
Liam: Of my own money. Yes.
Laura: You can't fight him yet!
Liam: I can't? Rules are meant to be bent and stretched. Am I right?
Matt: "You're going to put your money down between your friends to fight your friends."
Liam: It's a contentious relationship.
Matt: His eyes have already wandered from your face, he says, "500 gold on the goliath. Do we hear anything else?" A few other individuals step up and start telling him like, "50 gold down." "It's a hundred-gold minimum." "100 gold."
Sam: Who is he fighting?
Travis: We don't know yet.
Sam: We have to bet before we see the meat?
Matt: "Unproven fighters with a grandiose sense of self-ability enjoy the surprise."
Taliesin: So what sort of odds are we talking about, then?
Matt: "For this one, based on your height, reach, strength and arrogance, I'd put you at four-to-one against."
Laura: Four-to-one.
Travis: Okay.
Orion: It's okay, Grog. He doesn't know that you've beaten up a lot of people.
Sam: Don't tell him.
Orion: Oh, right.
Travis: I've got this scar here. How does he think I got it?
Sam: Those are fair odds, we'll take that.
Matt: "All right. 500 gold. Is this all I'm hearing?"
Travis: A hundred of my own gold on me.
Matt: "600 gold."
Taliesin: Hold on.
Sam: I'll bet 50 gold against him. We have to hedge!
Matt: "100 gold is the minimum bet."
Sam: Well then, I can't afford it. I'm sorry. We have to hedge.
Laura: You're going to get it, Grog. You're going to do it. I have faith in you.
Orion: I'll put 500 gold on the goliath.
Laura: Oh my god. We're going to lose all our money on Grog. No we're not.
Matt: "All right. Last bets, last bets!" Everyone starts putting in their cash. A couple folks frenzy over, you see a couple guys--
Liam: I put a thousand on the goliath.
Sam: What?
Liam: 1,000 gold on the goliath.
Laura: Sing a song. Do you use arcane magic or do you use divine magic? Just sing a song, Scanlan.
Matt: "It seems your friends are confident in your ability. Let's hope we can put their money where your mouth is."
Travis: In my mouth?
Sam: It's an expression.
Matt: "All right."
Marisha: I brush against Grog. And I cast Stoneskin on him.
Sam: Will that show?
Marisha: Does that show?
Matt: You cannot cast a spell when you're in beast form.
Liam: Plus, kitty, you did that once and it didn't work out so well.
Orion: As I notice what the cat's doing, I'm standing right next to him, so I do it with my hand instead.
Liam: You got caught with your hand in the cookie jar.
Matt: As you begin casting the spell, immediately the guy says, "You do that one more time and you're all disqualified from ever competing."
Orion: Okay. I'm sorry, I just thought I'd give my friend an advantage.
Taliesin: He'll be fine. Look at him. He'll be fine.
Orion: Yes, I have two eyes.
Matt: At which point, the other individual whispers into the initial bookie's ear. "Yes. Retrieve him, please."
Travis: Him?
Matt: "For this fight, we have a newcomer. A newcomer who is named--"
Travis: Should I have a fancy name?
Sam: Yeah, you should have a fancy fighting name.
Orion: Grog the Destroyer.
Travis: Phillip. (laughter)
Orion: No, that's like the opposite of what I said.
Matt: "Phillip, the newcomer, has decided to hedge his and his friends' savings that he, upon what I can only imagine is his first arrival into Vasselheim, to get his face pummeled by our current standing champion: Kern the Hammer." At this point, the crowd immediately goes quiet and whispering, you can see a few individuals now walking over, ushering this man, looks like he just stepped out of the nearby mines, he's got coal dirt on his face. When I say man, it is a six-foot-six, very visibly half-orc gentleman, built like some sort of thick-ass building you've walked past coming through here. Bald head, big, bristly mustache, and a face that's obviously taken a beating over the years. He walks up nonchalantly, just wearing a simple tattered tunic, leather pants and boots. You can see him like cracking his fingers. He looks over to the side at one of the guys. "They better have pulled me out of work for a good reason. Who am I up against?"
Travis: I envy your facial hair.
Matt: "I envy your currently unbroken face. Currently."
Travis: I'm going to kill him. That's a rule, right? I'm not supposed to kill him?
Laura: You're not supposed to kill him. No killing allowed in this?
Matt: The bookie steps forward. "No killing. Fighting until one falls."
Travis: What happens if they start to cry?
Matt: "Then you keep punching."
Travis: I like it.
Matt: "No weapons. No armor. Fists against fists until one of them falls. Lower the ladder." As they put the ladder down into the arena. You can see the orc gentleman pulls out a small, enclosed, almost like a wineskin, like an iron wineskin, unscrews it and drinks it all down.
Travis: Kern the Shithead does?
Matt: Yeah. Puts it down, throws it to the ground, with a ting-ting-ting.
Laura: Wait, what was in that? Was that wine?
Matt: "It is customary to drink before a fight."
Travis: Can I have my cask of ale, real fast?
Laura: Wait, does anybody have a Potion of Stoneskin or anything good?
Matt: As everyone gathers around, you can now see people are coming back out of the tavern to gather around the outskirts of the Crucible. Grog gets lowered down the ladder.
Sam: Oh, he's already down?
Matt: Well, Grog, what else do you want to do before you prepare?
Travis: What do I want to do to prepare?
Matt: Well, if you haven't gone down yet. The other guy has come down the ladder.
Travis: I took a drink from the cask of ale--
Sam: Wait, I come over to Grog and I just look in his eyes and I say, listen, you've got this, I can't give you anything else, but you've got this, man. And I also very quickly take out my Potion of Fire Giant Strength and I slip it to him before he takes a drink of his ale. I don't know if I hand it to him.
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Sam: Okay. (squeaks) Nope.
Matt: What did you roll?
Sam: Oh, that's a six. So eight.
Matt: All right. As you walk towards him and begin looking in his eyes, as you begin to pull out the flask, a hand grasps your wrist. And you glance over and you can see one of the burly human gentlemen that escorted Kern the Hammer in is currently grasping your arm and says, "I'm watching you. One more try and I'll throw you in there. We'll go down ourselves."
Sam: It's for my asthma. I promise.
Matt: Shoves you back away, still clutching it. Looks to you, Grog, up into your eyes. "You going to climb down and fight or you going to be a pussy about it?"
Travis: That's a really good question. I would like to rage. And I jump in the fucking pit.
Matt: You leap over the side, completely avoiding the ladder, both feet hitting the ground with a heavy thud sound. The packed dust kicks up around your feet.
Sam: Come on, Phillip! Kick his ass!
Matt: At which point, the other orc's finished cracking his knuckles, just kind of wipes the spit off the edge of his chin, gives you a look (growls) and you see a bit of foam toss from the side of his mouth.
Liam: Nobody fucks with Phil.
Laura: I can smell you from here, Kern!
Matt: Go ahead and roll initiative.
Travis: 20.
Matt: 20! All righty.
Orion: Oh shit, you got a 20?
Matt: All right. You actually probably would've landed there from the run. First round starts. You're up.
Travis: I would like to cast Intimidating Presence on Fern the Fucknut.
Matt: Kern. But it's better if Grog gets it wrong.
Travis: He never gets it right. Phillip, thank you.
Matt: Phillip. All right, so. Use your action to use Intimidating Presence? All right, so what's the DC on that?
Travis: Saving throw, 13.
Matt: 13. That will unfortunately not succeed. As you glare at him with an angry Phillip glare, your bellow echoing through the bottom of this Crucible, which in itself forms a very interesting acoustic amplifying of your yell, you can see Kern on the other side is looking at you with the same intense, burning rage.
Sam: Wait, that's your whole move?
Matt: And you can move if you like.
Travis: I'll let him come to me.
Matt: Okay. All right. So as you stand there waiting with fists at your side, Kern takes his turn. You can see he begins to circle a little bit around you as he begins to spiral about with an unnerving speed, dashes forward, fists come swinging, one, two. Both strikes coming towards you. That is a 19.
Travis: Misses.
Matt: This is all fisticuffs. That is a 24.
Travis: That hits.
Matt: And as a bonus action, using his rage, a third attack. That is a 21.
Travis: That definitely hits.
Matt: All righty.
Liam: Would you like to use my spiky die?
Sam: Don't do it. You got this, Phillip.
Matt: The first one does eight points of damage. The second one does seven points of damage. As one fist clips you across the chin, the other one goes right into your abdominals. You're still tensing and you feel the impact but you just take the sheer weight of the force and flex and angrily stare him down in return.
Sam: Phillip, do that thing where you move your pecs up and down! (laughter)
Matt: That's going to be a gif. And as you now see Kern prepares for a second bout, it's your turn, Grog. What are you doing?
Travis: I would like to go into a frenzied rage. I would like to start with a giant front-kick forward and then hammer him down.
Matt: All right. Go for the first strike.
Travis: Shit, that misses. Two.
Matt: That's probably going to miss.
Travis: Yep. That's a 19.
Matt: 19 is going to hit.
Travis: And also 19.
Matt: Both hit, yep. So you go to kick with the front kick, and he dodges to the side. However, you still, using your giant haymaker, the inertia clips him across the face. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: That is a 16.
Matt: You're not fighting with your axe. This is with your fists. So rolling 1d4 and then half that.
Sam: Half that?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: You only get half damage of a d4?
Matt: Yep. But you still add your strength modifier.
Liam: So these guys both potentially have like a hundred hit points.
Travis: Six. It was four, and then half of that is two, plus my modifier, which is four, so six.
Matt: Correct, so six damage. All righty.
Travis: And then four.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: This is what I use? For my fists? I got big-ass fists! I got tattoos and shit on them. I never shower, they fucking stink!
Taliesin: You could do more damage if you hit him with the die, because it's sharp, so you'd actually get more damage with the d4.
Matt: All right. So your modifier is plus-- it's plus three for the modifier?
Travis: No, my modifier's plus four.
Matt: Okay, and then what did you roll on that?
Travis: Two. Minus two.
Matt: Two, then five total.
Travis: Oh, five, yeah.
Matt: There you go. All righty, cool. So you hit him across the face and you hit him to the other side. He comes back, aligns his chin, and you can see he's now stooping in for some sort of an uppercut as he slips to the side a little bit with a sidestep. That will be a 25. A 20. And a one. So what's your AC?
Travis: 20.
Matt: All right, so both the first two hit. As he comes low for a full-on uppercut, hitting you for, that would be six points of damage (whack) under the chin. As you're currently reeling from the impact, he crouches down and is going to go for a knee to the middle of your groin. That is another six points of damage (whack) right in the Phillip junk. You instinctively give out a (grunts) from the impact. After that point, he comes up and it looks like he tries to go for some sort of a pile-drive grapple, and you instinctively kick off of him and his third attack is completely wasted. It's now your go.
Travis: No one fucks with Phillip Jr. I would like to bull rush and try and tackle him, and if it succeeds, I'd like to headbutt him on the ground.
Matt: Okay, okay. It's an action to do that, so you can use your bonus action to attempt--
Travis: And I would only get two attacks, right?
Matt: You only get one with this, technically. It's an action to grapple.
Travis: Okay.
Sam: Do it.
Travis: All right.
Matt: So go ahead and roll an athletics check.
Travis: No, that's even better. 22.
Matt: 22. Yeah, you slam into him, knock him to the ground, and you're now on top of him. He's currently considered grappled, and you can go ahead and attempt your headbutt.
Travis: Say hi! (boosh) That's a lot. 24.
Matt: 24? Yeah, definitely. So go ahead and roll damage on the same 1d4.
Travis: 1d4? It's my head!
Matt: Yep.
Sam: Your head is so puny.
Travis: It's got tattoos on it. One and a half. Oh. One and a half plus my strength, right?
Matt: So if it's three or four it's considered two. So six? All right. So as you tackle him to the ground and he's trying to pull you off, you reach up, (wham) just slam your forehead directly into the center of his face. As you pull back you can already see the blood streak off the front of your head as his nose is smushed even further into his gnarled facade. As you pull back, instead of pain, he's laughing. (laughs) As it comes to his turn, he's not attempting to break grapple. He's going to reach up and grab you and attempt to headbutt you in return.
Travis: I like it.
Matt: That's going to be a 21. A 23. And a 19. All right, that's a six, seven damage. So total of 13 damage. As he reaches up and slams you, slams you again. And as you start backing up, he goes to slam you a third time, and you catch his head in the middle of your mitt, and he's now face-to-face with you, just like (snarls). You guys are both snarling at each other like two rabid beasts. It's your go.
Travis: I would like to keep his head right where I have it and take my elbow and drive it down into the bridge of his nose. So that's 25?
Matt: 25 hits.
Travis: 22?
Matt: Hits.
Travis: And 17.
Matt: 17 does miss. All right. So go ahead and roll damage for the next two strikes.
Travis: With this thing again? Six.
Matt: Six, all righty.
Travis: It's hard to get above a six. And six.
Matt: Six, nice. So as you hold him down, his face, (wham). Head goes, cracks against the ground of the Crucible. As he starts picking his head up again, you drill back again, (wham) hit him a second time. This time, you can see now. His nose was already busted before. Now it's nearly concave. It's like he didn't have a nose before and there's just a bloody void where it once was. He's still smiling in a weird, twisted way. He seems to be enjoying this almost as much as you. You go down for the third one, and this time he reaches up and grabs your elbow. He's going to take his turn to attempt to break your grapple as his action. Go ahead and roll either an athletics or an acrobatics check.
Travis: 12.
Matt: 12? All right. He kicks you up back onto your feet, and as he does, he kip-ups onto his feet, as well. Looks at you with a smile, wipes the snot and blood from the front of his face, licks it off his hand, and with that same hand he rears back, almost like he's winding up for a punch, and then just kicks you right in the center of your stomach.
Travis: I like the feint, I like the feint.
Matt: That's 22. Yeah, that'll hit. That is eight points of damage.
Orion: He's fucking strong.
Laura: You suck, Korn!
Matt: That ends his turn now, you're up, Grog. You're both now standing face-to-face again, you're reeling from the kick to the breadbasket.
Travis: You hit me with the knuckle you fucking licked. So I'd like to jump forward and throw my knee forward and at the last minute pull it back and throw my fist in a Superman punch.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll.
Travis: Yes, fuck you, 19.
Matt: 19 just barely hits.
Travis: And I'll follow it over with a left-right. (boom, boom)
Matt: Go for it.
Sam: Are you still raging?
Travis: 21. Oh yeah, frenzied, so I get three. And 22.
Matt: All hit.
Travis: Outstanding. Watch me roll a six.
Sam: (whispers) Should we do something?
Liam: Have an ale. And collect the money.
Sam: I feel like we should do something.
Travis: 16, total.
Matt: Nice. (whack, whack) You first jumped, hit him in the face. As he stumbles backward, use the inertia to slam him again with the same fist in the face and then turn around with a full-on haymaker to the side of the temple. (whack) As you can see, there's a spray of blood and spittle across the, you guys are starting to push towards the back wall of the Crucible, and he actually staggers back a little bit towards the wall from the impact. (cackles) And he charges towards you, putting his head right towards the stomach that he kicked before, going for that same soft spot he's opened for himself. That's going to be a 20. Yeah, that hits. 21. And 21. Comes in, slams you into the middle of your abdomen for seven damage.
Sam: Should I sing?
Matt: Eight damage. And then an additional seven. So that'd be 15, 22 points of damage. As he slams his head into your midsection, picks you up over his head, slams you onto the ground, and as you're on the ground, he runs up and soccer-ball kicks you in the side of your ribs, just (whack). You hear a crack as the impact hits and you can feel that surging, shooting, burning pain begin to fill the side of your torso. It's your go.
Travis: What else do I have? What can I do?
Laura: You can throw some dirt in his face!
Sam: From the stands, I turn to a portly gentleman next to me and I say, sir, do you see what that fucking little elf said about your mother? He called her a name I can't even repeat. I'm so sorry.
Matt: Go ahead and make a deception check.
Laura: Was he pointing at you?
Sam: Yes.
Laura: Oh god.
Sam: 18.
Matt: He looks down at you and looks over at the elf and he says, "I'll deal with him after the fight. I've got too much money on this right now."
Liam: What an asp-hole.
Travis: I roll up off of my side and I start to go, oh, I don't know, it might be too much. And I grab a handful of dirt and I throw it up into his face.
Matt: All right. Riki-oh style. I like it. All right. So. As you go ahead, go ahead and just roll a basic attack.
Travis: Fuck. Thank you, god. 26.
Matt: 26. Make a dexterity save on his end-- no, that won't work. So you throw the dirt up. As he's rushing towards you to follow up on the attack, the dirt goes streaming into his eyes and for a second he stumbles and starts trying to wipe his face. As he does, he has the blood on his hands that's also getting in his eyes, the blood's starting to cake up a bit, and he's just reaching out in the area. So that's your first attack.
Travis: Because I feel like we have a kinship, I take my foot and I throw it right up into his grundle, just soccer-kick the shit out of his nuts. (laughter)
Matt: Go ahead and roll an attack. You have advantage on this currently, because he can't see it coming.
Travis: That's even better! 25.
Matt: 25. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: Oh no, I only have two, right? Ten.
Laura: How was that ten, baby? That was 11. The first one was a five.
Travis: Halved. Six.
Laura: That's 11.
Travis: 11.
Matt: 11.
Sam: Baby!
Matt: If you're going to do grundle damage. So as he's reeling and tries to reach out, swiping a back-fist into open air, you rush up and (whack) hit him with sheer force that you hear a unanimous (groans) in the crowd all around echo down. His knees immediately bend in towards each other, and you can see the sound escape instinctively from him, it's like, (wheezes). As you reel for your second strike, which is going to be? What's the second one you do?
Travis: Well, did he drop to his knees?
Matt: No, he's still standing, but barely.
Travis: Oh, really? Yeah, same place.
Matt: You pull back and (whack) a second time in the same spot, this sending him onto the ground from behind. He is currently prone. Okay, that's rough.
Travis: Literally trying to see him cough a testicle. (laughter)
Matt: Well, regardless of what happens, there's going to be a search. (laughter)
Matt: You're going to need a scouting party to find where one of them went. So at the top of his turn, gets up and wipes dirt crust from his eyes, reeling from the impact. Uses half his movement to get up and staggers toward you as you're just welcoming it. Looks up at you for a second and says, "You shouldn't have done that, tall guy." At which point, he goes and lunges for your midsection a second time. Misses with that strike, as you dodge out of the way he spins around and attempts to back-kick you to the torso. That will hit. A 26. And that one is going to-- That's going to be six points of damage to you from the back-kick, and as his foot comes down, he's still reaching for his groin from the sheer pain, he just rushes forward and attempts to bite into your shoulder. That's going to be a 20.
Travis: He rolled a 20?
Matt: Not a natural 20. Just a total of 20. He's rolled a lot of 20s. That's going to be seven damage as he sinks his teeth into the side of your shoulder and neck area. And tears a chunk of your flesh out of the sides of his mouth, now, in the muscle. So you reel back in pain and you're both clutched in this gladiatorial grip. It's your go.
Travis: Oh, amazing. Since we're clutched in that grip, I'll grab him back and I'm going to try and bite his nose off.
Sam: Wait, doesn't he have no nose?
Travis: Oh, he's missing a hollow, right?
Matt: It's mashed in.
Travis: How about I just aim for this area and if I catch lip I'll take it as a victory.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll.
Travis: Yes! Okay, 21.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: 20. And 24.
Matt: All hit. So as you reach forward, you use the yell of pain to turn it into an attack, reach forward and bite into the front of his face. You don't get any nose, but you do catch the top of his lip. As you pull back with a snapping sound, part of his upper lip just comes off in your mouth. How much damage does that do?
Marisha: It's a souvenir.
Travis: The first one is six.
Matt: Six damage. All right. What's your follow-up attack?
Travis: Would you say that he reaches back for his face like that in pain?
Matt: Oh yeah, he rears up with his hand right there and is like, (yelps).
Travis: Fantastic. I'd like to just drive my fist into his throat as his head's arched back.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll damage on that.
Travis: Yes! Five.
Matt: Five, all right.
Sam: You know what I love about these fights? They're beautiful. The beauty of the human body.
Matt: The blood's pouring down the front of his face and his throat. You clip him right in the center of his throat. You hear the coughing sound as he, with his other hand, reaches up and grabs his throat. You can now see his front teeth visible through the lip that's no longer there. And what's your third strike?
Travis: Would you say that he bends forward, then, because he's grabbing his throat like that?
Matt: He's tough. He's bending forward, but he's not completely incapacitated. He's in pain.
Travis: Right, I would say I go up next to him and invoke a fabled hero that I heard about in the woods named Macho Man Randy Savage, and I double-tap my elbow and drive it down on top of his head.
Matt: (laughs) All right. Go ahead and roll damage on this one.
Travis: Thank you. Six.
Matt: Six. So as you leap up, using the goliath weight coming down, you double-tap the elbow and you bring it down on top of his head. He, from the sheer force of it (wham) slams down face-first into the dirt, just like that. Onto the ground. As he's getting up, he's looking kind of rough.
Liam: I believe that's pronounced Ma-choman Rand'Savage.
Matt: There you are. A gracious warrior of the woods. While on the ground, he reaches forward and attempts to sweep your legs out from under you. Go ahead and make-- this would be an acrobatics-- no, we'll make this a dexterity saving throw. Why not?
Travis: Ten.
Matt: Ten. (whoosh) Pulls your legs out from under you, slams you onto your back. As he leaps up on top of you immediately and with both of his fists in the air slams them down towards your face. That's going to be a 22.
Travis: What?
Matt: 22 to hit. You take six points of damage.
Travis: Oh, good. (laughs) I was thinking 22 points of damage!
Matt: And a 23 to hit, it's going to be an additional eight points of damage. Just once down on your face, and again with a second slam, right down onto the front of the face again. You can taste all the irony blood and liquid pouring through your sinuses down into the back of your throat as you're currently on the ground with him on top of you. You're both looking pretty rough. Where are you at, hit point-wise?
Travis: I say, tastes like home. And I spit in his face and reach up and thunderclap both of his ears.
Matt: (laughs) All right, go ahead and roll for attack.
Travis: 24.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17 does not hit.
Travis: 22.
Matt: 22 does hit. So you reach up. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: Oh yeah, right.
Matt: (whack) Thunderclap to the side of both his ears.
Travis: Six.
Matt: Six points of damage. As he rears back and instinctively his hands go up and try and grab at your wrists, you pull the wrists back, and he's holding you from that point. You attempt to go for another strike, but he just redirects it with his own arms. You manage to pull out of the grip with a third strike. What are you doing for that one?
Travis: He pulled away from my wrists, and I'll give him a little of the same. Put my fists together and just swing straight down into his solar plexus since he's sitting on top of me.
Matt: Roll damage.
Travis: That's a five.
Matt: Five. (wham) You hit and you hear the wind out of him from the impact, (wheezes) and he's trying to get the wind back.
Travis: I can't hear you. What?
Matt: He pushes off of your chest to stand up for a second and (gasps) gets one big inhale of air, and as he does, he reaches up his leg and then tries to curb-stomp kick you right in the stomach while you're still on the ground. That will be 18.
Travis: Misses!
Matt: All right. A 19.
Travis: Misses!
Matt: And that will be a 24.
Travis: You son of a bitch!
Matt: All right. So he goes to kick you once, and you dodge out of the way. Kick a second time. This time, you catch the foot and hold it in place. He then lifts up with his other foot to a point where now you're holding him in the air. As he puts all of his weight in the air, he comes down and slams his elbow right into the center of your chest, in the way you did to his head earlier. That's going to be for a total of eight points of damage.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: I take the flagon of ale that I've been drinking all this time. I slam it down on the ground and push my sister out of the way and yell at the top of my lungs, Grog! Your father was an undead piece of shit and your cousin's going to make you his bitch!
Taliesin: There's not enough popcorn in the world for this.
Laura: I know.
Travis: (growls) I would like to reach forward with both of my thumbs and shove them into his fucking eye sockets.
Matt: Roll an attack.
Travis: Fuck!
Laura: Oh, no. You distracted him.
Travis: 12. That's better. 22.
Matt: Okay, so as you reach up to try to get his eyes, he grasps your hands and instead begins pulling back on the wrists. You can feel the tension of the bone beginning to bend from the sheer strength and force of it. As you pull back your arms, you attempt to headbutt him again and he dodges his head out of the way, and he knows he has you at an advantageous position. What do you want the third attack to be?
Travis: He's still on top of me, isn't he?
Matt: Yeah. Where are you at hit point-wise, by the way?
Travis: 18.
Matt: He's looking pretty rough, too. So what do you want the third attack to be?
Travis: Would you say he's on my chest?
Matt: He's currently on your chest and waist area right now, like (grunts) holding you down.
Travis: I was going to grapple him, but if he's on my chest, I'll use my thighs to shove him up towards the upper part of my body and I'll drive down my elbow at the same time. Into that whole bloody target area.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. As you shift upward, you bring your elbow forward. Roll for attack.
Sam: No, he rolled three already.
Matt: Oh, that's right.
Travis: I got at least a six.
Matt: So six damage? Okay, as you position him up, (whack) the elbow hits, and you can feel it sink in. What bones are there are mostly splintered and broken, and you get a good inch into his face with your elbow. As you pull back, he's looking really rough, and one of his eyes is beginning to swell entirely shut.
Travis: We look like a Rocky movie right now.
Matt: Yeah. This is a full-on, drag-out fight.
Travis: I must break you!
Matt: He angrily looks down at you, (snarls) and he reaches both of his hands up again in a giant hammer fashion. That's going to be a 17?
Travis: Misses.
Matt: A 20.
Travis: Hits.
Matt: And a 15.
Travis: Misses!
Matt: So he brings it down. (wham) As it hits, you manage to take the brunt of it in the shoulder. The second hit comes down and slams you for eight points of damage. (wham) This one, you can feel the sternum crack. As he brings up his fists a third time, attempting to end this, you use the leverage you had when you pushed him up to actually spring your entire body upward and force him off you. He manages to get to his feet and you just get up and you both are bleeding from all over your faces with giant bruises, and both of you are barely holding yourselves up, breathing heavily. It's your go.
Travis: I'm going to rush at him, spit on my knuckles, swing back, and at the last second, take my right foot and drive it right through his kneecap.
Matt: Roll for attack.
Travis: Fuck you! Yes! 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Travis: 22.
Matt: 22.
Travis: 19?
Matt: 19 just barely hits. (cheering)
Matt: All right, so as you run forward, bring the leg up, (whack) you hit the side of the knee. Roll damage.
Sam: Come on, roll good.
Travis: Five. Six. Six.
Matt: All right, and what are the attacks you do?
Travis: I want to drive my foot through his kneecap.
Matt: It snaps. He's still standing on the other leg, but the knee is cracked behind.
Travis: Oh, that's amazing. I'll just put my foot through his other knee.
Matt: As you jump off the other one, (whack) it catches the knee. It doesn't snap, but you can see there is a bend to it, and then he falls to the ground, on both of his busted knees now, looking up at you. And with the third strike, what are you going to do?
Travis: I would like to grab his head, since he's probably kneeling on the ground at this point, right? And say, there's only room for one to rage in this pit. And I take it, and I just smash into the top of his jaw, hopefully dislocating the bloody, lipless face that I see.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Wait, is he an orc?
Matt: He's a half-orc.
Travis: As a half-orc, does he got those big teeth?
Matt: There are little tusks there, yeah.
Travis: I'll grab onto those.
Matt: They're small to pull. You slam down on his face. (crunch) You can see the jaw crack open. The tongue instinctively moves around a little, but the jaw is definitely broken from the impact.
Sam: It's like a dance! It's like a beautiful dance.
Matt: You can see, that blow should have taken him out, because there was nothing left.
Travis: He's like the Black Knight in Monty Python! He's got no knees!
Matt: His body goes limp for a brief second. You can see the half-orc rage kicks in. That half-orc's blood. You can see him now rally up for one final round of vengeance against you, Grog. Reaches up and grabs you by the throat and brings you up to slam into his head. This is going to be a 21. A 17.
Sam: Miss.
Matt: And a 22. So grabs you, slams into your head with the first strike. That is going to be six points of damage. (boom) Into the face. You can feel like the shock, the white light in your eyes as the impact smashes into you. He goes to do it a second time. This time you instinctively reach down with your hands and push his face away. You can feel the fading just from the sheer impact as he pushes you up onto your feet again and you step back. And he takes a moment to look at you with his missing lip, his bashed-in nose, eye swollen shut, both knees messed up. (pants) "Respect." And then he runs forward and with one heaping haymaker just takes you in the face with a cracking sound for six points of damage. (groaning)
Matt: With a resounding crack Grog's head spins, his body turning. He stumbles a couple of steps, falls to one knee, face-down in the dirt, unconscious. The whole crowd raises and cheers, (cheering) as the mostly broken half-orc raises one of its fists to the air, walks around, looks over to your body, reaches into his pocket and flicks a gold coin onto your back. Walks over to the ladder and begins very painfully making his way up to the edge of the Crucible.
Laura: Yeah, he's only using his arms because he's got no knees! Douche.
Matt: Getting up to the top, the crowd cheers. You can now see one of the bookies reveals a holy symbol, one that you recognize as the symbol of Kord, and he goes down and immediately begins administering, healing to our recently unconscious Grog. You can see the other bookie, who is dressed similarly in the purplish robes you saw before, also begins to heal our good fighting half-orc friend as he lumps over and takes his sack of coins from him. The clerics of Kord are the ones actually running this, it looks like. You come to in the pit, Grog, beaten, wearied, and fatigued because of your frenzied rage. However, you have been defeated in the Crucible.
Laura: That was painful.
Matt: That was so close.
Sam: I go down and nurse him, nurse his head, hold him, and just tell him, Grog, you won! You did it, buddy!
Matt: Make a deception roll.
Sam: 16.
Matt: I would say given the circumstances, it's nice that he's trying, but it's been a while since you've been bested in one-on-one combat, and a part of you is deeply hurt by it. But at the same time, there is that burning fire, that need to come back and vengefully tear him down from his precipice when you're ready.
Travis: I say nothing.
Orion: It's okay, buddy. This isn't the first time you've been knocked unconscious.
Laura: It's too bad Pike didn't cast Death Ward on him before she left, though. That would've been great.
Marisha: I go up and rub on him and (meows).
Matt: As you're being tended to by your party, the same bookie that brought you in comes over and taps you on the shoulder and says, "Not going to lie, no one has taken a beating from the Hammer like that and brought him so close. I don't think he's going to be able to take another round with you for at least a few days. But you're welcome to fight in my ring any time you wish."
Laura: We'll need to earn our money back.
Matt: "There is that, yes."
Orion: Or you could just give it to us.
Travis: I walk away.
Laura: Is there a whorehouse here in Vasselheim?
Orion: You're asking this question?
Matt: A curious laugh comes across the bookie's face and he says, "The third floor of the Bellows'--" What did I call it, again?
Sam: The Bellows' Respite.
Matt: The Bellows' Respite. Sorry, I was in the moment. "The third floor of the Bellows' Respite does itself run as a brothel, if that's what you're inquiring."
Laura: That is what I was inquiring.
Taliesin: Come on, Grog, we'll get you ice cream.
Laura: We'll get you ice cream, Grog, and a whore. How's that sound?
Liam: Coldstone?
Orion: Grog, you can eat the ice cream from the whore.
Laura: Tiberius, really?
Orion: I'm trying to be creative here. Make him feel good. Fireworks. Prestidigitation.
Matt: All right. Grog, as you make your way into the tavern, there is, though in your solemn state you can see a number of the patrons who were watching from the inside who were part of the crowd all give a round of applause to you as you enter. The barkeep who turns to you, a human fellow who's missing one eye, has a tufted, spotty beard and happily extends a large tankard of ale and says, "On the house for you, friend! You fought well tonight."
Travis: I like your beard.
Liam: I take five of my remaining gold and slide it over to that bartender and say, just keep it coming. All night, please. Thanks.
Matt: "I'll deliver it to the room. By the way, what room are you staying in?"
Sam: Do we have a room?
Laura: We would love one of those.
Liam: The third floor, I believe.
Laura: For some of us, not all of us.
Sam: I don't think he's going to want to... partake tonight.
Liam: Might have problems.
Sam: Aw, he's chugging. He's sadness-chugging.
Matt: "The rest of you, how many rooms you taking? Three amongst you?"
Sam: Three.
Matt: "Three rooms for the night."
Sam: Plus a stable for our bear.
Laura: No. Our bear will stay in the room with us girls.
Travis: It looked like rain, right? I'll be out there with the pigs.
Laura: No, Grog.
Sam: No, it's okay, he needs to stew in this for a while.
Matt: "Your room's on the house, friend. The rest of you, that'll be six gold for the evening."
Orion: I'll stay in your room, Grog.
Sam: I don't think he wants company tonight.
Orion: No, he can sleep with the pigs. I'll stay in the free room.
Matt: So that's six gold for them. All right, so mark off your losses for the money you put in for the pot.
Travis: Where do I mark off my loss of pride?
Matt: That would be under additional notes.
Sam: I almost won.
Taliesin: Damn it.
Laura: Almost.
Travis: What did he have, that orc piece of shit, he had what that made him come back?
Matt: It's a half-orc racial ability that the first time they're dropped to zero hit points, they can instead choose to be at one hit point. They can only do it once per day.
Travis: He had one left?!
Matt: You brought him to negative five on that final hit, but that half-orc racial ability...
Travis: That's even worse!
Liam: Grog, if it's any consolation--
Travis: What's that mean?
Taliesin: It's a grouping of stars in the sky.
Liam: As I had no idea that weapons weren't allowed in there, if you and I had fought, you would've beaten me to a bloody paste.
Travis: Oh, you weren't serious, were you? I thought you were being funny. (laughter)
Travis: Oh.
Sam: There's a lot of injured pride tonight.
Marisha: Guys, we've had a really emotional day. Can we just sleep?
Orion: I found it to be very entertaining.
Sam: Hey, does anyone want to come to my room and look through my shit to see how Pike's doing?
Laura: Okay, yeah!
Orion: Let's look through your shit. Scanlan.
Liam: Pike would have been proud of you, Grog.
Travis: Thank you. And if there had been weapons I'd be in deep shit. I'll be at the bar.
Laura: Oh, Grog, come on.
Sam: That's not even chicken, that's just a piece of wood. (laughter)
Matt: And yet it doesn't stop him as he, bite by bite, makes his way through the piece of driftwood he found by the bar.
Liam: I slap down another five gold to the bartender and say, that's for that barstool.
Matt: "Thank you." Which, the barstools, by the way, have a thick, crusty wool on them, so there's a unique flavor to the piece you've chewed through.
Travis: The frying on this chicken is exquisite.
Matt: As you all take your evening of rest in your respective groups, Grog, eating and drinking away your worries until eventually you are unable to make conversation, you sloppily make your way to the third floor to a room in the brothel that has been prepared and awaiting for you, paid for by the Bellows' Respite, and you find yourself sloppily disappointing a woman until you pass out in your own sorrow. (laughter)
Matt: And with that, we're going to take a quick break, but we'll be back here in about ten minutes, guys, right after Overlord has a few.
Travis: Fuck!
Laura: He's so upset. He's really upset.
Marisha: I've never seen him this upset.
Orion: Yeah, isn't it weird when other people get upset?
Zac: He's definitely not a challenge for Overlord status, that's for sure. Guys, so in case you're wondering what all of this 5k hype is that you keep seeing, if you're watching from home and you tuned in after we started. Megiyama in the chatroom has challenged you guys, the audience, if we get up to 5,000 subscribers tonight, he will buy a very large, and by very large I mean eight feet tall. It is massive. He sent me a picture; it is massive, I don't know where we will put it. We'll figure it out somehow. He will buy that for us and ship it to us, it's a very, very generous thing to help get us to 5,000 subscribers, and I was told from some people in the chat that I should also contribute in some way, shape, or form, so I have agreed to dress up as Pengulord tomorrow all day if we reach this goal. And for those who don't know, there was a very large war this morning in team No Stream, the chatroom, while we were offline. Someone thought it would be funny to put my face on a penguin. I did not think it was funny, and I timed out and banned every single person that referenced it, and exalted all of my power as Overlord, so it pains me to agree to do this, very much so, because it completely diminishes everything I've strived so hard for in world domination. Penguins are the least-threatening animals on the planet, and I despise them.
Matt: Wow, that is an intensity. Pengulord, guys.
Zac: Good for you guys.
Matt: Pengulord, I like the sound of that.
Marisha: They like to snuggle.
Zac: Well, good for them. No.
Matt: We could fit Pengulord on a license plate, right?
Zac: No. Too many letters.
Taliesin: If we get you in this outfit, will you waddle? That's really the question.
Zac: I said 5,000 subs, not my dignity and everything. I will put on the damn outfit at 5,000. That's all I have to offer. I'm already still working on a damn music video, so all I have left to offer is my dignity and every ounce of pride I have in anything.
Matt: So if we somehow get to 5,000 subscribers, we get an eight-foot Trinket and Pengulord gets to rule the stream tomorrow. We'll be back in about five, ten minutes, guys, please stick around, we have more interesting things to see.
Marisha: Oh wait, before we log off, we have this ready to go. Follow our amazing artists. Also, follow Espionage Cosmetics because they're amazing supporters of the show. Tweet at them and be like, thank you so much for supporting Critical Role. Because they're awesome. Okay. [dramatic music]
Travis: Right, listen up! If you have ale, then you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw. A goliath of towering height and size, this barbarian has an appetite for the two great loves in his life: combat, women, and ale! (chuckle) (record scratch) Wait. Easily the brains of the group, Grog is often consulted for his vast knowledge of shapes, colors, and (chuckle) shiny things! Also ale. In his early years, armed with his two-handed great axe, Grog often enjoyed proving his might amongst the ranks of his family's wandering herd. But after coming upon an unsuspecting elderly gnome in the woods, he objected to the killing of such an innocent life. A creature of impulse, Grog felt only pity for this-- well, this terrified little thing. And his disobedience cost him dearly. Beaten bloody and banished by the herd leader, his uncle Kevdak, Grog was abandoned and left to die, exiled from his herd. It was then that the relative of the very gnome he fought to save, saved him. It was the kindness of a gnome cleric named Pike that healed Grog, bringing him back from death's edge. And they have remained close friends ever since. Most nights, Grog can be found challenging entire taverns to wrestling matches! Ha! Or accompanying Scanlan to the nearest house where you pay for lady favors. Also ale!
Marisha: A first impression of Keyleth would leave you with little information on the half-elven druid. You might even think that her social awkwardness due to her sheltered upbringing is kind of sweet. (chuckle) Of course, it would be unwise to underestimate her based on first impressions. (thunder) Under that unintimidating petite frame is a vicious beast waiting to be unleashed, whose natural powers have made even the fiercest of champions pee their pants, literally! (soft chuckle) Born to the Air Tribe of the Ashari people, Keyleth was raised with a deep love of nature and the elemental magics. It is her people's inherent duty to protect the delicate areas in Tal'Dorei where the four elemental planes begin to bleed with this realm. Since she was a little girl, she had quite a knack for air manipulation and beast shaping abilities. Well, if you consider kittens and flying squirrels to be little beasts. Which, I do. (clears throat) Anyways, it wasn't long before the headmaster of the tribe, her father, Korren, realized her true prodigious abilities and she was inveterated to succeed him as the next headmaster. Just like that, her jovial childhood was stripped and replaced with endless spell memorization, teachings from ancient traditions, and exceedingly high expectations. Every druid leader to be must embark on a journey to seek out the sister tribes in order to introduce and establish respect amongst the fellow headmasters. They call this the Aramente, or Noble Odyssey. When her father felt she was ready, he set her on the path to truly discovering herself, not knowing when, or if, she will ever return. As she hiked down the mountain towards Stillben, she meditated on the task ahead. Part of the Aramente is proving yourself a strong warrior, a valiant protector, and a wise and compassionate leader. With this knowledge, one thought plays on repeat in her mind: Is she even worthy?
Taliesin: Percy was the third of seven children, born to a noble family who lived far to the north in the ancient castle of Whitestone. With so many siblings to share the burdens of lordship, Percy turned his attentions to the sciences, engineering, and naturalism. One day, a mysterious couple named Lord and Lady Briarwood came to court. During a feast held in their honor, the Briarwoods violently took control of the castle, killing or imprisoning everyone who would stand in their way. Percy awoke chained in the dungeon, only to be freed by his younger sister. Together they fled, chased by the Briarwoods' men. As they ran, Percy's sister took several arrows to the chest and fell. Percy kept running, eventually jumping into a freezing river and floating unconscious to freedom. He did not remember waking up on a fishing boat. He barely remembered the next two years, as he slowly made his way as far south as possible. Then one night, Percy had a dream. A roaring cloud of smoke offered him vengeance against those who destroyed his family. When he awoke, Percy began to design his first gun. (gunshot)
Ashley: Pike grew up on the outskirts of town, near the Bramblewood. Her ancestors were a family of deep gnomes with quite an unfavorable reputation. Thievery, destruction, and trickery left them with the curse of the last name Trickfoot. Sarenrae, the goddess of healing and redemption, had other plans for Pike's great-great-grandfather Wilhand, who left his family at a young age after a dream: a dream that changed the course of the Trickfoot family. Wilhand devoted his life to Sarenrae and pledged from then on that him and his family would live a life of service and devotion. As a child, Pike seemed to have an affinity to heal. Whether it was animals, people, or even flowers, she felt she had a purpose in making things whole that had once been broken. She studied and learned the ways to heal though divine magic. She lived a peaceful life, quiet and simple, until one day, Wilhand was captured and almost killed by a group of goliath barbarians. One of the goliaths took a stand against the murder of the innocent gnome and he himself was beaten, bloodied, and left for dead, abandoned by his herd. Wilhand went to Pike for help. She prayed and healed this barbarian as best she could, bringing him back to life. When he awoke, she discovered his name was Grog Strongjaw. After that, they were the best of friends, a rather unlikely pair. Little did she know that in a few years' time, Grog would soon return the favor and bring her back from the clutches of death. (roar, crunch) After being killed in battle, Pike felt angry. She wanted to be stronger so that it would never happen again. She spent four months at sea training with the men and women aboard a ship called the Broken Howl. Gripping her holy symbol in one hand and her morningstar in the other, this time, Pike is ready.
Sam: Oh, you haven't heard of Scanlan Shorthalt? Well, gird your loins, ladies, because he has his eye on you. A talented musician, master of disguise, and dashingly handsome in his own mind, Scanlan sings songs almost as much as he sings his own praises. Born a poor gnome, Scanlan used his endless charm and soaring tenor voice to croon for coin and support his single mother. One day he was discovered by a half-orc promoter and joined Dr. Dranzel's Spectacular Traveling Troupe, where he learned the ways of the world and honed his skills as a bard extraordinaire. A loner much of his life, Scanlan has never quite come to terms with the violent death of his mother at the hands of a goblin invasion. While his years on the road provided many, shall we say, educational experiences with the opposite sex, deep down, Scanlan yearns for the one thing he's never known: the true love of a fellow gnome. Still, Scanlan considers himself a lover first, performer second, and fighter distant third. On the battlefield, he'll support his allies, but rarely draws blood, unless it's to protect fellow gnome, Pike. Count on Scanlan for a hearty laugh, a rollicking song, and a twinkle in his eye that melts hearts and makes the females swoon.
Orion: Greetings and salutations. I am Tiberius Stormwind. I hail from a town called Ty'rex, located in the heart of Draconia. From a politically respected family, at the age of 15, I succeeded in passing the Sorcerer's Rite, showing prodigy-like control of my magic. The judges and the Draconian high council were amazed at how powerful my spells were for how long I had been training. At 20 years old, I was the youngest appointed member of the magic guild in Draconian history. For the next few years, I almost went mad from the malaise of being a guild member, as it's rather boring. However, one day I happened upon a chamber, unused for quite some time. In the room were stacks of books and maps of the surrounding cities and areas around the known world. For months, I would frequent the chamber, and learned of artifacts from legend. After a long period of research, I made a list of artifacts that caught my eye. I brought these findings to the high council and was told that all of the information in the chamber I had stumbled upon was either believed to be fiction, or unsolvable mysteries, and hence were lost forever. I found those answers to be unacceptable. A year later, I devised a ruse and managed to convince the city council to lend support in me leaving Draconia on a mission of peace and diplomacy for the surrounding kingdoms, going from town to town and making friends and allies, in and for the name of Draconia. Being a red dragonborn, I had quite the task on my hands in that respect, but it was exactly what I needed so I could explore the world and find these artifacts, as I felt the truth was out there. Some may describe me as buffoonish, but I say poppycock to all that. I am much sharper than most give me credit for. I just don't pay attention to things sometimes. I've also been known to be rather cunning, loyal, happy-go-lucky, and well, dangerous. I can't help but show my true scales every now and then. But overall, I think I'm quite friendly for a dragonborn!
Liam: Never entirely welcome in the company of elves or men, Vax'ildan learned at a young age to skip past formality, preferring instead to invite himself in your door. Along with twin sister Vex'ahlia, Vax was born by a chance encounter between elven royalty and human peasantry. Raised by their mother in their early years, the twins were eventually sent off to their father in the elven capital of Syngorn. But their cool reception among the elves--
Matt: Welcome back, guys. All right, so we had a little break here. Remember to follow our awesome artists on the Twitter. So, let's go ahead and get back to the game so we can-- we have a lot to do tonight. All right. As morning comes to, the rest of you wake up, the first thought, of course, being the heartache for your friend Grog, who is not in any of the rooms.
Laura: The heartache for our lost money.
Matt: Yeah, more the money probably for Vex-- but as you wake up, Grog is nowhere to be found in your rooms, of course. He wandered off to presumably the third floor.
Taliesin: Is that a euphemism?
Matt: It can be.
Marisha: I'm still in Minxie form. I slept in Minxie form. I'm going to go look for him, see if I can find him in any of the rooms on the third floor.
Matt: Okay. A giant white saber-toothed tiger wandering the interior does set off a few minds. I mean, an armored bear being escorted is one thing, but a lone saber-toothed tiger? As soon as you make your way through the hallway, you can see one of the patrons comes out of the room and goes, (startled sound) and goes and pulls his blade out, like, "Help! Help, there's a tiger! There's a tiger in the inn!"
Marisha: Why does this always happen to me?
Liam: Hearing yelling, I run up the stairs and say, hey, has anyone seen a-- oh, there you are. Come on, Snibbles, come on. We've got to go back downstairs.
Matt: "Hey, keep that thing on a leash, sir."
Liam: I'm really sorry.
Matt: "Liable to kill someone!"
Liam: Chews through her rope all the time. Come on, Snibbles.
Marisha: I roll over on my back, and I'm like those cats you see on YouTube who hate being on leashes. Just dragging.
Liam: I start going, on the tummy.
Matt: Goes back in his room and closes the door.
Laura: I'm pretty sure you just groped her.
Matt: At about this time, you hear a heavy footfall. A second heavy footfall. A third heavy footfall. And from around the corner of the staircase, descending from the third floor, you see a very hungover and expressionless Grog squinting and making his way down.
Liam: Morning, big guy. Have fun last night?
Marisha: God. You're not going to puke, are you?
Matt: You hear (meowing).
Travis: I never puke.
Laura: Do you need some breakfast or ale?
Travis: What, food? I think I'm good.
Laura: All right.
Liam: I think you need an ale.
Laura: Little hair of the dog? Yeah?
Travis: Now that sounds like a plan.
Laura: All right.
Matt: You guys head down. The rest of you manage to eventually wake and make your way down to the tavern, where Grog is already in the process of consuming his liquid breakfast.
Orion: Hold on, I haven't come out of the room yet, right?
Matt: Not until you want to.
Orion: So I do, I see Grog going there, drinking his thing, I use my Mage Hand and I whack the ale out of his hand.
Matt: Your tankard goes flying out of your hand, on the ground, it spills across the front--
Orion: I make my way down to the thing and I tell the bartender, give this warrior water. This might be your problem, Grog. You lost for a reason, and you're a warrior.
Liam: Yes, but he's named after beer. (laughter)
Orion: Yes, I know that, Vax. I'm just saying.
Taliesin: And you are what you eat.
Orion: I cast Invisibility.
Matt: Okay. Tiberius vanishes. The barkeep hands over a big mug of clear water and sets it in front of Grog.
Laura: Oh, this is the very special beer.
Matt: "It's the water that was requested by your friend. Who disappeared."
Travis: Water?
Laura: It'll get you super drunk.
Liam: Can you feel it? You can feel it, right? You can totally feel it.
Travis: It's pretty smooth. (laughter)
Travis: Keep it coming.
Matt: Meals are ordered, you guys are fed as per your purchase of the evening's inn stay. Your meal's still covered by the tavern. Eventually, you find yourselves full and about, I'll say roughly ten, 11 in the morning it would be.
Marisha: I'm no longer Minxie to eat breakfast with my friends.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Hi, good to see you, Keyleth.
Liam: Are you a dwarf again?
Marisha: No. I should to talk to more dwarves before I try to... yeah.
Taliesin: That was a little racist.
Marisha: It was a little racist.
Sam: Remind me, what was on our plate? What's on our plate?
Laura: Well, we have multiple things we can be doing. We can go meet Keyleth's druid family in the mountains, right? Fire, brimstone, stuff like that. We have a lot of money waiting for us.
Travis: I think we have to go back on the airship to go get it.
Laura: In Kraghammer, yes, but there is 25,000 gold waiting for us, so that's always an option.
Travis: The Braving Grounds, we could see if they need any-- since we-- I lost us a lot of (tearing up) money.
Laura: Here, Grog. Have some clear beer.
Travis: Some more? Okay. We can see if they need anyone for hire, go and have a... (tearing up again) being strong.
Liam: I would feel it very hard to leave Pike behind in the city. Are we really going to leave and go to Kraghammer?
Marisha: Well, we don't have to. I don't want to go yet. We traveled several days here. While we're in this side of the country, I should probably go, you know. Do the things I was set out to do.
Travis: Plus we have the poo cell phone.
Laura: Good job, Scanlan.
Sam: It's more of a poo walkie-talkie.
Liam: I don't know what either of those things are.
Sam: Just know that there's poo involved.
Liam: Does the poop talk like my earring? Because that I understand.
Laura: Yes, it's like a poop earring.
Liam: It's like a poop earring. Why didn't you say that in the first place? You talk through it? You talk to poo?
Sam: You see through it.
Matt: Hashtag poop earring.
Laura: So yes. There's multiple things.
Sam: Well, multiple things. There's just go back to Kraghammer and get money, or go where Keyleth wants to go.
Laura: We can look for work here, we can go back to Bahamut, see if they want--
Taliesin: Keyleth's got family. We can visit her family.
Laura: That's what I'm talking about, yes. Fire, brimstone, volcanoes. Druids.
Travis: Keyleth, do you have an opinion?
Marisha: I mean... I guess if you guys don't have anything else to do, yeah.
Liam: How far are they from here?
Marisha: I'm not sure. We'd have to start asking around. They're remote. We're secluded people.
Laura: Secrety.
Marisha: We're a little secrety, yeah, and we haven't heard-- I just want to clarify, you know. I haven't talked to them in a long time, so I hope they're nice. And I'm sure they're--
Liam: Family stuff can be tricky.
Taliesin: It seems a shame to have a family and not take advantage of it.
Sam: What's family for other to take advantage of?
Travis: To hit. To kiss.
Laura: To kiss? You kiss your family?
Travis: Yeah, I'm a goliath. What about it?
Laura: There are things about goliaths I did not want to know. That water has a good effect on him.
Liam: Do you feel drawn to your parents, though? Do you want to go?
Marisha: I have to go. I don't have a choice.
Liam: Then we should go.
Marisha: Okay. I just don't want to inconvenience anybody.
Laura: Inconvenience, schminconvenience.
Sam: Oh, is that Dwarvish?
Laura: Yes. It's actually Underdark. I'm fluent.
Marisha: Oh wait, that was Dwarvish? Inconschmenience.
Taliesin: Your accent's amazing.
Marisha: I'm trying to work on learning more Dwarvish. Okay.
Travis: I have a question for you, Vax. The Braving Grounds that are here, would it be to our benefit to collect maybe some coin and practice our (gets choked up) fighting before we go to the maybe-friendly fire jugglers' village?
Liam: You want to go back in there? It's awfully fresh.
Travis: Not the Crucible. Don't rub my face in it. Not in the Crucible, to the Braving Grounds.
Liam: The Braving Grounds. We were just in the pub. I mean, that was just a backyard brawl, basically. He's talking about going to the temple.
Travis: Was that the Crucible I was in?
Matt: The Crucible was the pit you were in. The temple you were at is the Trial Forge. The whole area you guys are in, this district of Vasselheim, is known as the Braving Grounds.
Liam: This is what I think, Grog. It's too fresh. You need some time away from it. We should absolutely come back and you should break that guy's fucking face, no question.
Travis: (choked up) I could've. Totally could've.
Liam: You almost did.
Laura: Yeah. Next time, bite his nose off right away before it's concave.
Travis: I saved it for too late. I did it too late. But then in the balls...
Laura: The balls-- good effort.
Liam: We've come a very long way. Keyleth is near her family. She needs to see where that road lies.
Taliesin: We should take care of each other.
Liam: And once we do, we'll come back and fucking kill that guy.
Travis: And we can use weapons if they suck, right?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: Speaking of weapons, aren't we in a perfect weapons-buying district?
Sam: Is that true?
Travis: Yes! Can we go find an armory or somewhere that sells pointy things?
Matt: You can certainly try. Yeah. As a note, too, as you're having this conversation, you reach into your pocket, Grog. As you're feeling around in your pocket, you realize that you saved in your drunken state the upper lip. It's rubbery and dry, but it's there.
Travis: I tuck that inside of my belt-beard. Just so it's nice there. One little part of it just flapping out.
Laura: What about your beard? Is he growing his beard?
Travis: Oh, it is a new day.
Matt: You get to go ahead and roll a percentage dice.
Travis: Nine, 90.
Matt: 99. No beard this morning. It goes the other way.
Travis: It goes the other way?!
Matt: Lower percentage.
Travis: My life is shit! I can't do anything!
Matt: It's a rough day for Grog.
Travis: I'm hanging myself. Where's the bridge?
Sam: There's no bridge here.
Laura: Actually, I don't know about anybody else, but I'm incredibly low on funds at the moment.
Taliesin: Perhaps shopping is not the best path.
Marisha: We did just do a lot of shopping.
Sam: Yeah, let's go adventuring.
Taliesin: We haven't had an awkward parental confrontation in what feels like months.
Marisha: Okay. You guys, I'm so nervous.
Travis: You really are?
Marisha: Well, I mean, it's a big thing.
Travis: Have you seen them, ever?
Marisha: The first time I left home was when I met up with you guys.
Matt: (impact) You guys suddenly hear this slamming sound that echoes throughout the nearby city. You hear this impact, like this distant crashing of stone against stone. A few seconds later, you hear this low (horn sound), this horn that's just bellowing out, this deep echoing horn. The rest of the tavern looks around, confused. A couple of individuals step outside to look.
Orion: I'm at the dock, right?
Matt: You've been walking away for a while, and you get about roughly ten minutes away before you hear this impact and these horns going off in the distance.
Sam: I turn to the barkeep and say, well, what was that? Do you know? Have you heard that before? What is that?
Matt: "It's the horn of the Trial. Means there's some sort of attack."
Sam: Attack? Where? How do we know where?
Matt: "I don't know, but I'm getting ready." And he starts going to the back room.
Laura: Getting ready where? What are we doing?
Orion: I'm going to cast Fly on myself and see what's going on.
Matt: Okay, so you become visible and begin lifting up into the air--
Orion: No, I'm still invisible for a round.
Matt: Oh, because the-- okay. So you lift into the air and then appear as the concentration spell wears off. You got your crown. Looking over, you can see immediately there appears to be some commotion, like some dust has scattered up from the forest on the far side of the Braving Grounds, outside of the major wall of the city.
Orion: I'm going to do a (whoosh) to where they are.
Matt: Okay, you start gliding over. As you guys rush out, you can see now a bunch of the Bastions that are set across the top of the wall are gathering and loading in bolts, and you see two of them fire. You hear this now guttural roaring sound, but multiple ones, like a chorus of large bestial screams echo and then (wham) a second slamming sound of stone into stone, and you can see at the very distant wall, right below where those two Bastions would have fired those giant dragon-headed bolt-throwers, both get thrown off the top, falling a good 40 feet out of view beyond the distant rooftops. You can see a small crack beginning to form at the top of the wall. Two other Bastions now begin to rush in and take the place of those two bolt-throwers.
Liam: I yank two daggers out, flip them, catch them, and just start running.
Laura: Can I grab the flying carpet out of the Bag of Holding before you take off?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Sure. You grab it. You guys start running. You're gliding in.
Sam: I'm ambling behind them.
Orion: I'm going to where the attack is, not to them.
Taliesin: I'm going to hop on the carpet with you.
Marisha: I'm going.
Laura: I swing down and pick up my brother.
Taliesin: I'm hopping on, as well.
Matt: You hop on.
Liam: Come along, Percival.
Matt: At which point, two more bolts are let loose, and you hear the creature once again scream (screech) in pain, and then the footfalls.
Liam: We don't see them yet?
Matt: No, you just hear it. It's on the other side of the wall. You see what looks like a toothy maw streak across the top of the tower for a moment, and then the tree line shift, and the footfalls get quieter and quieter.
Travis: Go ask one of the Bastion guys what it was.
Laura: Yeah, we fly up next to one of the shooter guys and say, what was it? What is it?
Matt: Okay, you glide up to it, and as you look down, you can see the two Bastions that fell. They're currently being tended to. One of them looks unconscious and rough from the impact of the fall, the other one's walking with a limp, trying to find its way back towards the interior of the wall that leads up to the top of his post. The one you come by has sweat beading down his face and you see he's loaded another bolt and he's looking out, wide-eyed, towards the forest. He goes, "It came back."
Laura: What came back?
Matt: "We've had this blasted thing seen on and off again for the past few weeks. Maybe it's hungry or it's bored, but either way, this multi-headed thing, this hydra-like creature keeps coming in and I don't know, I think it's testing the wall."
Laura: Like a raptor.
Travis: They remember.
Laura: Clever girl. (laughter)
Liam: Clever girl. (laughter)
Sam: Should we go kill it?
Liam: I don't see it anymore. I think it's gone back into the woods.
Matt: "It's fled. Got a few hits in, but it went and... we can never seem to get enough to take it down."
Liam: How frequently are these attacks coming?
Sam: Of course we can track it.
Matt: "I mean, you're welcome to try. It's only been maybe two or three times this past week, but it's come once or twice a week for the past month, hitting different areas of the city. Not just this beast, a few different ones, but mostly this abomination. It's a nuisance more than anything, although it did get a good hit on the wall." And he looks over and you can see there's a crack in the stone. He looks nervously over it and, "I'll get to fixing that right quick. It keeps slinking off back into the Vesper Timberlands. Kord help us if there's more than one of these."
Laura: Kord help us. Good old Kord. Okay.
Travis: I grab my earring and I say, Tiberius, where are you?
Orion: I'm flying around.
Matt: You just now glide over, seeing the flying carpet towards the top of the wall.
Orion: I'm above you.
Travis: Where?
Orion: Here!
Matt: He is visible, just gliding by. You guys have run up to the edge of the wall. You're beneath looking up at the flying carpet and they're having this conversation at such a distance where you can't really hear them talking. Percy, Vex, and Vax, you're up on the flying carpet currently, conversing with the Bastion.
Laura: Can we float up a little bit and see if we can see movement in the trees where it is?
Matt: You glance over and you can see the canopy shifting slightly. It's about a quarter-mile off and disappearing before it's eventually a little bit out of sight. You figure a creature that large can't be too difficult to track.
Laura: Okay.
Sam: Go kill it?
Laura: Well, here's the thing. I bring the carpet back down and say, I see where it went, if you guys want to fight it. What do you think?
Orion: I'd like to go get my money at Kraghammer.
Sam: I thought we'd decided to go to Keyleth's.
Matt: The individuals are now, they're currently--
Marisha: You left during the family meeting.
Liam: That money's not going anywhere.
Orion: I suppose you're right.
Liam: Let's help the city out, then we'll go on to see Keyleth's parents.
Sam: Help the city out by going to track the hydra first?
Travis: I run back to the tavern real fast. People have left, right?
Matt: Yeah, there are people outside looking at what happened.
Travis: Barkeep still there?
Matt: He's there, and he's currently putting on armor by himself.
Travis: It's okay, it left. Big crack in the wall. Might think about leaving. Before you do, the Siren. Where might I find her?
Matt: He thinks to himself, says, "She's a slippery one. She only shows up when she wants to start a fight. I gather your best bet would be to ask around. I hear she runs at times with the-- what are they called? The Slayer's Take. The Slayer's Take." As you guys are talking about this, the Bastion that was talking to you guys is now coming down the wall, and he's like, "Are you seriously thinking about going after that thing?"
Sam: Only if there's money involved.
Matt: "Oh, I can guarantee a beast of that size and that much of a problem's got a hell of a price on its head."
Laura: From who? (laughter)
Sam: From who? (laughter)
Matt: "I gather anyone you take it to at that point. Probably take just one or more of its heads back, or some proof it's dead, and I'm sure there will be a few people that will fight hand over fist to pay for that."
Liam: We could easily get a head. Let's go right now. Grog's doing something. Let's go.
Sam: Hey, Grog. Grog, come in. We're going to go kill something. We need you.
Liam: How? We're on the carpet, he's flying. Scanlan's riding on an eagle.
Marisha: I can try a Locate Creature spell.
Taliesin: You can do a what?
Marisha: I can cast Locate Creature.
Taliesin: She can cast Locate Creature.
Sam: Let's leave Trinket behind. Just for now, it's so hard to keep track of Trinket, Jesus.
Liam: Grog's been fighting for a long time, he needs rest. Let's go!
Matt: Trinket is there behind you.
Laura: Polymorph him, please.
Marisha: I didn't learn Polymorph. You're going to have to ask Scanlan about that one.
Laura: Scanlan, please. Polymorph him.
Sam: What, me? Do I know Polymorph?
Liam: Whatever that thing is, it's getting away. We're losing time.
Laura: We can track him. I'm a ranger.
Marisha: I drop to my knees and I cast Locate Creature.
Travis: I can only come if Tiberius lets me.
Sam: Oh, to fly.
Liam: Yes, exactly. Let's keep twiddling our thumbs.
Orion: I'm going to cast Fly out of my ring on Grog.
Matt: All right. Grog.
Sam: I guess we're going. Hold on!
Marisha: Do you want to use your ranger tracking skills, or should I try and cast the spell?
Laura: I can definitely use my ranger skills.
Orion: I'm going to cast it at 5th level, and I'm going to cast it on myself, I'll keep it on him, Grog, and Trinket.
Matt: Okay. So Trinket once again-- (distressed bear noises)
Orion: Like last time, remember, Trinket?
Matt: Trinket seems to be a little less perturbed by the circumstance.
Travis: I grab Trinket's paw like in Superman 1, and we fly.
Matt: Grog and Trinket, coasting through the air, arm in paw.
Travis: Thank you, Tiberius.
Liam: Peter Pan and Wendy.
Taliesin: Can you read my mind?
Matt: All right. So as you guys all drift up over the town, you can immediately see the Bastion that was talking to you is looking very, very curiously at Tiberius.
Laura: Oh, don't worry, he's really nice!
Sam: Sorry, there was just a little magic so we could go kill the hydra, sorry... (laughter)
Matt: As you guys vanish over the wall, you can now see before you the entirety of the Vesper Timberlands.
Liam: Most people just say thank you! Dick.
Matt: Below you, the landscape is entirely consumed by what looks like the densest forest you've ever encountered. The cold air seems to be growing colder as the day progresses on and the clouds themselves are choked dark grey. The rain never fell last night, but the storms seem, or at least the storm front that seems to push its way is still ominously looking overhead the entirety of this landscape. Looking down across the Vesper Timberland, you can see the thick canopy, the occasional mountain or hill that's jutting through the top of it, but there is no movement. There is no current sign of the creature.
Travis: Let's use some bait.
Sam: Wait no, we saw the direction it went in, right?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Don't worry, my sister's a ranger. She can track anything.
Laura: Why are you being an asshole to me today?
Liam: I don't know, why am I?
Laura: I don't know! (laughter)
Laura: I judged him, apparently, but I don't remember doing it.
Liam: The Critters will figure it out.
Laura: Yeah, can I go low to the ground and track it?
Matt: You can. So you take the carpet down, and as it hits the canopy, it's a very slow, arduous process to weave between the thick network of branches and vines and other bits of growth that have completely covered the top of this forest. Eventually, the carpet comes down into the floor. The rest of you guys who are flying coming along, as well?
Sam: I'm coming along.
Matt: You all come down behind the carpet, eventually breaking through the top of the canopy and reaching the interior of the Vesper Timberland itself.
Laura: This is my other favored terrain.
Matt: Good to know. This forest, incredibly lush, presses up against the city walls itself, nearly oppressively with the impact. It grows up right against the city wall. And it's almost like the wall itself is constantly keeping it at bay in the way that the growth that's pushing inward. The tree trunks you see, now that you've hit the interior, vary in size, some only a few feet in diameter. You come across a couple that are 20, 30 feet or more, giant trees. Also, even though it's midday at this point in time, the light into the forest is choked so thin it's almost like it's dusk, near dark, inside the forest. The air hits you with the smell of wet earth, moss. Vines and branches dangle from and reach from every direction, and you can see there are, you can walk through the path here, but nearing trees themselves, the roots are so large and so twisted where they enter the ground. You're definitely going to have to keep up with your ranger friend here.
Liam: Just like the old days.
Orion: Now we've touched down and we're traveling?
Matt: You guys are in the forest pushing through various walkways. Go ahead and make a survival check with advantage.
Sam: Survival check? Is that for her?
Matt: Yep. She's tracking the creature.
Laura: Oh, natural 20! (cheering)
Matt: All right. Following its path, you see that there are tracks going both ways, meaning the creature as it came through towards the city, it turned its path about and then exited the same pathway. So as you're following it along for a good 15 minutes or so, you come across a small opening in the forest where you can see what looks to be a very messily partially devoured carcass of something.
Laura: Is it big?
Matt: It looks like it was pretty big, it's definitely spread out over this area.
Laura: I think it ate something here, you guys.
Sam: Good ranging.
Laura: Thank you.
Taliesin: I'd like to try and identify the animal that it ate.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: 13?
Matt: 13? You look at it, it appears to be some sort of furred beast. Huge in size at one point, it is long-dead for at least--
Taliesin: Like moose-big or bigger?
Matt: No, as big as some of the umber hulks you've fought. But it looks humanoid-ish, more primate-like. The more you look at it, it looks like it may have been at one point a large, massive ape of some kind. But it has been torn open, limbs scattered all across this small clearing. You can see there are a series of bite and scratch marks across it, and most of its internal organs are missing.
Taliesin: I don't know what we're tracking, but I think it's friendly.
Marisha: Can I do a nature check to see if I can figure anything out about the nature of the attack?
Matt: Sure.
Marisha: That's going to be 21.
Matt: 21. As you look down at it and you take close inspection on the attack, you look, a creature like this, when it destroys and bites, especially the creature that you saw earlier briefly, it appeared through the canopy when you first arrived. Many heads, gnashing teeth. The bite marks and the attack on this carcass are definitely in line with that creature. However, you do notice that there are other marks and attacks across it, as well. Some of the wounds across its body appear to be made by weapons. There are gash marks and slashes. And the more and more you inspect the body, you can see the blood that has been scattered about by this was thick and congealed by the time that it was tossed amongst this opening.
Marisha: Does it look like the wounds from the weapons happened post-mortem? Or at the same time?
Matt: Actually, the wounds from the weapons appear to have occurred fresh, whereas the wounds from being killed and eaten, or being eaten by the creature, appear to be post-mortem by quite some time.
Liam: So it was killed by civilized folks and then torn apart by this thing.
Travis: Maybe the Slayer's Take.
Marisha: Can I figure out what kind, was it some bird creature? Is all Percy could--
Matt: Ape creature. It's essentially a massive, for lack of a better term, a dire-sized ape.
Taliesin: Dire-ape. It's possible somebody was feeding it.
Laura: Should we continue on, keep tracking?
Liam: My sister and I are going to check and see if there's any sign of it in the area.
Laura: Yeah, perception check around. Oh, that looks good.
Liam: Yes, it was. 21 for me.
Laura: Yeah, only 18 for me. But wait, advantage. That's way better! 25.
Matt: 25. Looking ahead, this carcass was eaten before the creature attacked the city. You can see from the time difference that this happened. But it has torn through this space recently. You can see part of the body has been shoved aside and crushed under some giant clawed foot. It continues weaving between the trees in this small pathway that looks well-worn, like there are some portions of the forest that are well-overgrown and mostly untouched. There is a specific path along the floor of this forest that looks like it's been used often by large footsteps and small ones.
Laura: Should we follow along that path? But maybe off to the side a bit, like in the trees but next to the path?
Sam: No, let's just go down the middle. What, did it leave traps? It's a hydra.
Liam: I'll go down in the bushes, thanks.
Orion: Is it like a thicket? Is this rough terrain we're going through?
Matt: There are many portions of this that come across as rough terrain. At certain times it's okay, especially on the worn path, any off that can be a little more difficult to traverse.
Orion: Is it plant life?
Matt: Plant life, tree roots, heavy thick branches that have fallen or have grown out and interwoven. Occasional rocks or natural formations that are jutting out of the earth.
Sam: Let's continue on as fast as possible.
Matt: Make another tracking check, with advantage.
Laura: Oh man, another one?
Matt: (singing) Advantage.
Laura: 16.
Sam: I'm going to inspire her with a little song of inspiration. (singing) And the ranger's going to range, range, range, range, range. And the tracker's going to track, track, track, track, track. I'm just going to watch, watch, watch, watch, watch. Watch her range.
All: (singing) Watch her range.
Laura: What do I need to add?
Matt: A d10.
Laura: Okay, so 19.
Sam: Oh good. Three points.
Matt: All right. You continue moving forward off the track for another ten minutes or so before you see some movement ahead.
Laura: Perception?
Matt: Perception check.
Taliesin: I'll join in that. 21.
Travis: 12.
Laura: 18.
Orion: How far away are we from each other?
Matt: You guys are keeping a pretty close view, you're a little behind them, but you're letting them push forward unless you choose to do anything otherwise.
Liam: I'm going stealth.
Matt: All right. Make a stealth check. You and Percy go ahead and you look forward, and you notice there are a couple small pools of water that have just coalesced through the recent storms or just a natural small pool of water that exists in this portion, but you can see the back of a large, scaled creature with a tan dark-brown hide, long tail, currently stooped down and drinking from the waters in the pool. You can hear the distant (lapping) sound of water dripping out of its jaws, and you can see now, there are multiple heads taking drinks out of this pool here.
Sam: Is the foliage around us green? Brown? Standard foliage color?
Matt: In this area, because of the nature of the rich earth, most of the foliage here is a deep green.
Sam: I'm going to turn us all deep green. With Seeming.
Liam: With what now?
Sam: Seeming. Yes with Seeming. I spread my Seeming all over us, turning us green. With Seeming all over us.
Taliesin: There's nothing you can't ruin.
Matt: As the hue of your garments begin to shift to the color of the surrounding forest, I'd like everybody to make a stealth check who hasn't already, with advantage.
Liam: Oh, 30.
Orion: I cast Stoneskin right now.
Sam: We're rolling for stealth? With advantage?
Laura: Natural 20!
Taliesin: 15.
Sam: 16.
Marisha: 25 total.
Matt: These are trees. There, looming at the edge of the water--
Laura: Whoa. Is that a dragon?
Matt: That is a massive hydra.
Laura: So it's not technically in the dragon school?
Matt: No. It is considered a monstrosity, technically. You guys are all hidden off to the side here.
Liam: I'm scooting forward quietly.
Taliesin: Hail, hydra.
Marisha: Where do you hail from, hydra?
Matt: All right, we'll put that as your guys' current placement. Stealth scores are?
Liam: 30.
Sam: 16.
Orion: 18.
Marisha: 25.
Taliesin: 15.
Travis: 15.
Laura: It was a natural 20. Do I add anything?
Matt: No, you don't have to worry about that.
Sam: So we're all good.
Matt: Okay. The creature keeps drinking. Occasionally, a head will come up and look around. Another head will come up and snap at it, and snap back, and then both go down and they start drinking on their own. You apparently are not currently noticed.
Laura: Should I have rolled for Trinket?
Matt: Go ahead and roll for Trinket.
Laura: I rolled an 18 for Trinket.
Matt: Okay, Trinket's fine. Trinket with his deep green fur, at the moment. So what would you like to do?
Liam: I'm pulling out my Dagger of Venom.
Travis: Set a really good trap. Let's think about this.
Marisha: I can box him in with my Wall of Stone.
Laura: I can cast the spike-growth thing again.
Sam: Should we try to push him in the water?
Travis: We could lightning the water.
Laura: In the water, then lightning the water? That's good.
Orion: I have all kinds of things.
Travis: Suggestions?
Liam: If you box it in, we can't get inside.
Orion: If we can nudge it into where he's drinking, then box him in.
Laura: Drown him?
Travis: Or lightning the water?
Laura: Yeah. Box him in the water and then lightning the water.
Travis: Keyleth, you're up.
Liam: Keyleth, when you shape the stone, can you make it lean towards him in a ramp? I can run up. It would still box him in. I could just traverse it.
Marisha: Yeah, I see what you're saying. I'm going to pyramid him in, essentially. I'm going to try and make almost behind him is an auditorium and the front of him is a jabby ramp. Does that make sense? Auditorium?
Sam: Let's do this.
Matt: Okay. The wall of stone has to be connected to itself, so it would have to be like--
Marisha: Okay, I'll do a spiral. Like a spiraly ramp that traps him in.
Taliesin: We're going to take the carpet and make our way to the other pond.
Laura: Do you want to go from either side? You take the carpet, go to the other side, and I'll walk over with Trinket to the other. What is he looking for?
Matt: Our carpet got moved. We have flying carpets from fans here I want to use, but it got moved.
Marisha: Are they in our magic box?
Matt: We'll find them. We've got carpets from you guys to use. We'll get that in just a second. It's fine. We've got to move. So Percy?
Taliesin: I have the carpet, I'm going to head towards that small--
Matt: You have the laser pointer. Show me.
Taliesin: What is that?
Matt: That is a rock.
Taliesin: I'm going to move just to the other side of that.
Matt: Okay, you coast through here, unseen.
Laura: I'm going to do the same to the other side, actually.
Matt: Around and behind to this side, here?
Laura: Would I be able to shoot him from behind the one further back?
Matt: From here, right now? No.
Laura: Well then I'll go behind the big tree. There, yeah. Totally hidden!
Matt: Yes. Anyone else, placement?
Sam: I'm going to move closer.
Matt: Okay. Right there.
Marisha: Hey, Matt? Instead of Wall of Stone, I'm actually going to cast my one 6th-level spell, which is Move Earth.
Matt: Have you read Move Earth?
Marisha: Yeah. A few weeks ago.
Matt: You can move large chunks of earth over a small period of time. It's not an attack spell, it's more of you can dig a cave.
Marisha: Never mind. I'll stick with the original plan. I can't dome him up and go ahead and push him in the water really quick at this point?
Matt: Probably not with that one.
Marisha: All right, I'll stick with Wall of Stone, which I know I can do. Make a hydra pyramid!
Liam: I rolled a 30. I want to get down in a crouch and just run right there.
Matt: Okay. Keyleth, where are you going? To have line of sight on the creature, where are you going?
Marisha: Right there is fine.
Matt: You don't have line of sight on the creature. There's a tree blocking.
Marisha: Oh. No, let me move towards Scanlan.
Matt: All right, so over here?
Marisha: Yep.
Orion: I'd like to do an investigation on his-- oh yes! I rolled a 21.
Matt: What are you trying to do?
Orion: Guess how much he weighs.
Matt: A creature of this size, probably close to two tons. More than three tons, maybe? 5,000 pounds.
Orion: Damn it. Too big.
Matt: It's a big creature. Grog, where are you going?
Travis: I'm going to post up on, where's my laser pointer?
Sam: In your eye! God, you're having the worst day!
Liam: Just headbutt a tree or something.
Matt: Tiberius, you're staying right there?
Orion: Keeping within 100 feet of it.
Matt: Okay, that's well within a hundred feet.
Orion: Well, Vax can move. Is that my best POV?
Matt: To see it, yeah. Otherwise, you would be blocked.
Orion: Okay.
Matt: All right.
Orion: Actually, we can move anywhere right now, right?
Matt: All right, is everyone set? Who's taking first initiative on this?
Marisha: I am.
Laura: Can you move Trinket next to Grog?
Matt: Trinket moves around next to Grog.
Marisha: Okay, I want to try and do a little pushy-shovery at the same time.
Matt: All right. There you are.
Laura: There we go, look at us all. Strategized.
Sam: Yeah, that's going to come in handy when he just kills all of us in one shot.
Marisha: Okay. As he gets in that corner of that puddle, I'm going to Fibonacci circle and starting here, push him in a bit and wrap him up.
Matt: Okay, so you create from the earth a wall of stone that comes jutting out. That way?
Marisha: Yeah, I want him to be tight in the circle here, and if I can get it to push him towards the water.
Matt: The force of the wall of stone slams into him and through the physical form, it's not enough to actually move a creature of its size and weight, but it does form around it and hold it in place, currently.
Liam: As soon as Vax sees that, he starts running through the grass, up the slope of the stone.
Matt: It's currently surrounded by a ramp of stone. The heads start reaching out and biting at the stone.
Orion: You're running up the stone?
Liam: Yeah, and I'm clicking one boot against the other as I run up it, so I'm going faster, run up, and I'm going to jump and I'm going to start stabbing into that head.
Matt: All righty. Go for it.
Liam: Okay, 17. Shit. And 27.
Matt: Second one hits.
Liam: The final one hits?
Matt: Oh sorry, the first one was?
Liam: 17. One.
Matt: One misses, the final one hits, yes.
Liam: Okay. So does this count as sneak attack? All right, so I roll a nine for damage, plus eight, 12, 14, 15, 17 of sneak attack damage, with the first attack, that's poison. And the poison is DC 15.
Matt: DC 15. Misses. Does not make its save.
Liam: With 11 points of poison damage to its head. That's just the first attack that hits. And then I take my keen dagger and I jab for the eye, and that is a ten of damage.
Matt: Nice. It is considered a sneak attack because this is a surprise round.
Liam: Both attacks?
Matt: The first attack that hits is considered a sneak attack.
Liam: First attack I gave you was sneak attack.
Matt: No, I mean the first attack that hits it. You missed, missed, and then you hit.
Liam: Oh, I thought I hit and missed and hit.
Matt: Missed, missed, and hit.
Liam: All right, well then erase the first numbers I told you. It's just ten plus-- it was 17, so 27.
Matt: All right. 27 damage. You leap, run up the stonework, click the heels, rush down and then slam, and the dagger slips into the front of its torso, the actual blade pulsing as the magical energy expels itself, the poison rocketing through its body. All of a sudden, the heads turn around and now you have five heads looking at you.
Liam: Add 15 of poison to that. Add 15 of poison.
Matt: Awesome. Is he poisoned? Or just takes 15 additional points of damage?
Liam: It gets poisoned, and it takes damage on the first hit and every round I think it takes that poison.
Matt: No, it just means it's poisoned, which means it has disadvantage.
Liam: Oh, yes. DC 15, plus damage on the hit.
Matt: There's the flying carpet. (cheering)
Orion: Is any part of the creature still in the water?
Matt: One of its feet is currently off to the side in the water.
Orion: Cool. I'm going to cast Invisibility. And I can see it, because I'm on the other side of the ramp, right? I'm going to cast Chain Lightning right at the foot.
Sam: Chain Lightning? You have Chain Lightning?
Marisha: It's new.
Orion: Yes, it is. It's a 150 foot range, and I do 10d8 damage.
Sam: I know, I used it at the fight that you didn't want to fight in.
Matt: Yeah, what's the DC?
Orion: 17.
Matt: 17. All right, it does make its save, so half damage.
Orion: How do I count these? There's a bunch of sevens. Stupid ones.
Sam: 28.
Orion: All together?
Sam: No, that's 28.
Orion: Oh. 38. 43.
Matt: 43. Awesome. So a total of 22 points of damage from a save. So as it's stepping into the water, it takes an additional, I'll say, additional 2d8 from being in the water. I'll roll them here. Additional nine damage to that. As it pulls back, the stone around it, the rogue leaps up and slams it with a blade, its heads turn around, and as it does, you turn around, vanish from sight, and then... you cast Greater Invisibility or just Invisibility?
Orion: Greater.
Matt: Okay. Release your hands and a torrent of blue electrical energy rockets forth from your hands, streaking out, some parts leaving arcs that hit the nearby forests and then slamming into its body, its exposed heads. You can see the arcs now shooting through between the various necks and bodies. It writhes and streaks about, slamming its body into part of the stone that cracks and heaves from the impact, still holding it in place. Well done. You want to move, or is that your turn?
Orion: I'm going, what are the big lumps, are those trees?
Matt: These are trees. Anywhere walking on the trunk around it is difficult terrain, you cannot pass.
Orion: I'm just going to go right behind that tree.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn. Who else wants to do anything this round?
Laura: I want to shoot him.
Matt: You all get a free round, and then we roll initiative.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to cast Hunter's Mark on it.
Matt: Hunter's Mark on it.
Liam: Oh, I'm sorry, DM? This is after the fact. Assassinate, on any attack before the enemy's had a chance to take a turn yet, any hit on surprise is a crit.
Matt: Good to know, so that's 54 damage from your initial strike.
Liam: Thank you. That's all I get. That's all I do.
Laura: So I'm going to cast Hail of Thorns at 3rd level. I'm going to roll for that. Jesus. That's only 16. That doesn't hit, does it?
Matt: For Hail of Thorns? 16 does not hit, unfortunately.
Marisha: Even though he's trapped?
Matt: No, it's against the armor. It actually ricochets off the hide of the creature and disappears. It explodes against a tree trunk in the distance, and you can see a smattering of magical thorns shoot out into one of the canopies.
Laura: Okay. Then I'm going to try just doing a regular attack through the magical bow of fire. And that is 17.
Matt: Hail of Thorns is an action to cast, though, isn't it? You've already used your bonus action to cast Hunter's Mark.
Laura: Then never mind, I don't do anything. I just fucking fucked that up.
Matt: It's okay, it's a surprise round. Do you want to do anything with your self-placement or Trinket-wise?
Laura: Yeah, I want to climb a tree that I'm next to.
Matt: Okay. Using your movement. Go ahead and make, we'll say an athletics check to climb the tree.
Laura: What was that, athletics or acrobatics?
Matt: Athletics.
Laura: Why?
Matt: Because there's no branches nearby, you have to--
Laura: Six! I'm going to stay on the ground.
Matt: You slide back to the trunk, turn around and grab your bow and prepare yourself. Trinket, anything?
Laura: Trinket's going to stay right there.
Sam: I'll move and do Lightning. Why not? Just try to get as much as possible. Just so I won't hit whoever that is.
Matt: That would probably be right there. All right, so you unleash a Lightning Bolt?
Sam: Yes, I do.
Matt: Go ahead and roll damage, 8d6. Does not make its save. Rolled a five.
Liam: By the way, we need seven more subs, which is ironically the same number of heads the hydra has.
Taliesin: Seven more subs?
Marisha: Seven more subs?
Orion: Seven more subs?
Matt: Seven more subs?
Taliesin: We're going to get a bear!
Sam: 19.
Matt: 19?
Sam: 19.
Matt: All right, gotcha. That was the total 8d6?
Sam: That was 6d6.
Matt: 8d6 for Lightning Bolt. Roll two more.
Sam: Ten more!
Matt: All right, 29. You turn around the corner, the energy still crackling around it from the Chain Lightning. You unleash your own Lightning Bolt that hits it from the side, slamming into the side of one of the heads. The head actually pops from the impact. It's now got four heads.
Sam: Oh, hey. I got a head!
Taliesin: What's my distance? Is this Pepperbox distance or Bad News distance, at the moment?
Matt: Right now, you can't see because there's a tree in the way, but you're Pepperbox distance from here. You could try Bad News, but you'd have to set up in place.
Taliesin: All right, I'm going to start curling around the tree I'm near. I'm going to take some movement to fly over the pond back here. And while I'm making my little round, I'm going to take two shots with the Pepperbox.
Matt: Okay, so as the carpet's gliding past, you're basically strafing it and (gunshots). Go ahead and fire.
Liam: You have a bear.
Marisha: She has a bear? We got a bear!
Matt: Oh my god, there's going to be a giant Trinket. That's so stupid.
Taliesin: Full-on misfire. (cackles) Yeah, I misfire. I don't care; we got a bear.
Matt: All right. We got a bear. As you strafe past, you pull your Pepperbox and go to fire. Suddenly there's a dull sound, and as you look at your gun, it explodes for a second in your face. You barely manage to get your visage out of the way as the barrel itself is heated up and you have to shake it off. Yeah, your Pepperbox is looking a bit rough right now.
Taliesin: It's fine; I'm putting it away.
Matt: Okay. So everyone else has gone but Grog.
Travis: Me? Can I run all the way up and try and pull a Vax, like he did?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Hey, I want to try that! And I rage as I attack it!
Matt: All right, as you rush up, axe in your hand, you rush up the side of the stone ramp that she's created and it's right in slamming distance. Go ahead.
Travis: I swing away. 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Travis: Yes, and the second. 16.
Matt: 16, no. 16 misses. And then?
Travis: That's it, just the two. I'm not frenzied. Yes. 17.
Matt: 17 points of damage as you hack once again, slamming into the side of one of the necks, causing a gout of purplish blood to spray over the right side of your body. That ends the combat round for the surprise round. The creature is now aware that you're definitely there. Everyone roll initiative. All right, so 25 to 20?
Orion: 22.
Matt: 20 to 15?
Laura: 19.
Sam: 16. First good roll I've ever had.
Matt: For initiative, yeah. 15 to ten?
Taliesin: 13.
Travis: 13.
Matt: Both of you guys 13. All right.
Marisha: Four.
Liam: 12.
Orion: That's what you usually get.
Taliesin: You got a four?
Marisha: Yeah, I did.
Matt: All right. Top of the round, Tiberius. As you start to see the head that got blown off, two heads sprout out of the--
Sam: Out of the wound.
Matt: It now has six heads.
Sam: It had five when we started!
Matt: Yep. And when you blew off the head, two more grew in its place.
Laura: Wait, but when Hercules defeated him, he just cut off so many that they started attacking themselves and they got tangled up.
Matt: Regardless, Tiberius, it's your turn.
Orion: It's still on the same position it was, though, right? When we started? Right?
Matt: Yep. It did seem to heal a bit of its wounds as the heads pull out of it. It has a sense of regeneration.
Orion: And I go, oh no you don't. And I stick out my ring and Chain Lightning him again.
Matt: Chain Lightning is a 6th-level spell.
Orion: Yeah, I know, and I had one stored in my ring.
Matt: Your ring can only store up to a 3rd-level spell. We went over this last time. It's okay.
Orion: No, I thought that was the Ioun Stone. We all learned something today, kids. I don't do that. Instead, fine. I'm going to cast Telekinesis once. And I'm instantly going to do quicken spell and do five sorcerer points to cast it immediately again. Cast it on one head and another head and (bashing, tying sounds). To try and wrap them all and choke them.
Matt: Go ahead and roll an arcana check for the first one.
Orion: Wasn't terrible. What is that?
Sam: 14.
Matt: Okay, and for the second one?
Orion: Natural 20.
Matt: Okay, so it rolled a 17 on its second save. The first one, it did not resist because it rolled a three. So what you do as you cast Telekinesis once, you use the sorcery points to cast it again. You can't get all the heads, but you can grab two of them, one focus for each telekinetic thing. You take both heads and (whack, whack) slam them three times into each other and then twist the necks around at the point where both of them are biting onto their own necks after they've torn into a second. For that, they're both going to take 2d8 impact damage. That's nine plus five. 14 points of impact damage to each head. Both of those heads are currently grappling each other, so they will not be able to attack on its turn.
Orion: And then I go back against the tree. That is my turn.
Matt: All right. It is now the hydra's turn. It rolled a really high initiative. The two heads are going to untangle themselves. That's their attack. Now it only has four strikes this turn, two of which are going to be against you and two of which are going to be against you. All right, so. Two of the heads rear back, lunging at Vax over here. That's going to be a 29. Second one is going to be a 19.
Liam: Yes.
Matt: All right. So you take... 17 and 15. 17 and 15, so 32 points of piercing damage. One of the heads snaps down on your torso and lifts you up for a second as the other grabs the side of your body, and it feels like it's about to tear you apart for a second until you manage to elbow it in the nose and manage to get free of one head and shake off the other. Grog, another head comes at you. First one comes at a 24.
Travis: Hits.
Matt: And a natural 20 for the second.
Travis: Yeah, I guess so. Phillip's a fucking douche today.
Matt: 14 points from the first one. You are raging, so it's halved to seven. The other one that is a critical, that does come to 24, so 12 points of piercing damage. All right. That ends its turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Can I see its body at all?
Matt: Yeah, you can see its body, it's pretty large, mainly just the heads are visible, the ramp is blocking the lower half of it. So you can't see its legs and its main part of its torso, but you can see the necks and the heads.
Laura: So I can't see its body.
Matt: Currently, no. It is blocked by her stone.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to shoot towards where-- is this bad? Oh no! I'm going to shoot towards where all of the heads are joined together.
Matt: It managed to unravel itself during its turn, but it used its attacks to do so.
Laura: Yeah, down where all these heads are connected. Right here.
Matt: Oh, okay. You can sort of see that area. Best you can, yeah.
Laura: I'm going to shoot my fancy exploding arrow.
Taliesin: The untested?
Matt: The one that you rolled.
Taliesin: The one that has the little mark beside it?
Matt: You pull out of your quiver the exploding arrow, which you can see it, it's heavily weighted in the front so you know you have to fire it at a slight arc against most of your arrows that you shoot. So go ahead and roll an attack on this one.
Laura: Oh god.
Matt: What did you roll? Are you serious? As you pull back on your bow, you go to release it, and the string ignites for a second, the arcane fire behind it that you absentmindedly trigger, and as you do you realize at the last minute, the arrow doesn't fire. You actually freak out for a second and release the bow. The arrow falls, the flame hitting the edge of it, and it explodes and detonates right in front of you. Make a reflex saving throw. Sorry, a dexterity saving throw. Oh, Pathfinder. You squeak in every now and then.
Laura: Natural 20!
Taliesin: Now?!
Marisha: Fuck you, dice gods.
Matt: What would have been an explosively painful 38 points of damage is halved.
Taliesin: Well, we know it works.
Matt: So you take 19 points of fire damage, and you're knocked prone.
Taliesin: Now, if only I could have attached that to a donkey, at some point.
Laura: You said 19? Jesus.
Matt: You're knocked flat on your ass.
Liam: That was all of Dungeons and Dragons contained in 30 seconds. (laughter)
Taliesin: For a year, he tried to get me to design an exploding donkey.
Sam: I did.
Matt: That was a little unfortunate. Trinket can still move and finish off the round, if you'd like. That was only one of your attacks.
Laura: All right. Can Trinket run up and fight alongside Grog? All right, he's going to do that.
Matt: Trinket runs up, runs up the ramp, claws out (roars).
Laura: Gets two attacks because of bestial fury. Jeez. Okay, I'm going to roll my Trinket dice now. Don't kill me now. Okay. I don't even know. 16.
Matt: 16 does not hit.
Laura: Cool. 19.
Matt: 19 does hit.
Laura: All right. (fake-cries) Okay. 13.
Matt: 13.
Laura: Does he get Hunter's Mark?
Matt: I would say yes, because he is your bear, I'll let that happen.
Laura: Yes he does! That's another five.
Matt: Nice, so 18 points of damage from Trinket. As Trinket runs up, one claw swings through the air, and as the head rears back, seeing this new bear that's joined the fray, reaches out and clamps onto its throat with its jaws, tearing a chunk of its flesh out.
Travis: Yeah, Trinket!
Matt: All righty. That brings us to Scanlan.
Sam: I'm going to punch it with Bigby's Hand. I'm going to do Bigby's Hand. And punch it. That's it. Punch. That's my move. Punch.
Matt: (laughs) Good, let me open the spell real fast.
Sam: (singing) It's Bigby's Hand! Bigby's Hand. You know it. Shamone.
Matt: So go ahead and roll a d20 and add your spell attack.
Sam: Add my spell attack?
Matt: Yeah, it should be at the top of your spell page.
Sam: This? Spell attack. 21.
Matt: 21 hits. Go ahead and roll 4d8 points of force damage as the fist slams, clocking one of the hydras in the face.
Sam: 23.
Matt: 23. And with that, you actually punch one of the heads off the hydra. It goes spinning off into the forest.
Laura: Oh, you don't want to punch heads off.
Sam: Hey guys, I got rid of another head! Hey guys, I'm on a roll! Who still hasn't gone? Keyleth, you haven't gone?
Taliesin: I haven't gone and Grog hasn't gone.
Sam: Okay, I'm going to inspire Grog with my bonus action.
Matt: Okay, what do you inspire him with?
Sam: Oh, I'm going to inspire him. (singing) Come on Grog, yeah, you know what I mean. It's time to rage on this hydra...
Matt: A half-hearted d10 to you. (laughs) All right, so. As that finishes your turn. At this point, you see a series of blurs in the nearby bushes.
Sam: Blurs in the bushes!
Laura: Blurs from the bush? What?
Matt: A voice rings out, saying, "Hey! What are you doing?!" And you now see an armored individual come rushing out from behind this tree here, another armored individual rushing from there, a female with a large sword rushing from this side, another character with leather armor, and a robed female coming from behind here. "This is our mark! You're not supposed to take that from us!"
Laura: Well, maybe you should've fought it before we got here!
Matt: "This is against the rules, you skag!"
Orion: Wait, what rules? We don't know the rules!
Marisha: We got here first! Warcraft rules!
Orion: I don't know what that means!
Matt: So this guy runs forward. He can't quite get all the way there, so he's going to sit there. Mage moves out this way and is going to look over at you as you're getting the gun, looks over and reaches out her hand. Go ahead and make a wisdom saving throw.
Taliesin: Oh my god, for the love of-- no!
Travis: What did you roll? Say it!
Taliesin: One.
Orion: Hold on. Wait no, hold on. I peek over and Counterspell.
Matt: You do not have visual on her at all. The trees are in between, unfortunately. As you're on the flying carpet, you see over the shoulder. You go to get your gun-- you're trying to pull out Bad News-- and then your muscles seize and you find yourself held in place.
Sam: Hold Person. Hold Percy.
Matt: The cleric character you see comes forward, holding aloft a holy symbol, and reaches up and suddenly you see the canopy above the hydra begin to glow with a bright orange light before a column of fire slams down into the ground from the heavens.
Sam: On the hydra?
Matt: On the hydra.
Laura: Wait, what about the people that are near the hydra?
Matt: It appears to only be affecting the hydra.
Laura: Ooh.
Sam: Ooh.
Sam: What is that?
Matt: The hydra takes 48 points of damage.
Travis: Four-eight?
Sam: While you were gone, everything happened, by the way. Everything happened.
Travis: We're apparently taking someone's bounty.
Matt: This character runs up, dressed in leather armor, hood, cloak. Runs back, pulling two longswords from underneath the cloak and swings up to strike multiple times. You can see a hawk gliding over, heading in the canopy. Does 12 points of damage with the first strike. The second one, goes to swing and hits the hide and flanks off of it.
Laura: And it explodes in his face and he's knocked prone.
Matt: Sorry. This woman, as she rushes forward, you can see the skin has a pink-reddish tint, these blackened twin horns curl to the back of her head, and she carries a giant greatsword in her hands as she runs in a blur, yelling out this angry war cry. "It's ours!" Runs up and swings towards one of the hydra's heads. First one misses. Second one misses. (whoosh) In her fury and anger and the frustration of currently having apparently a targeted bounty of theirs taken, she swings wildly into the air, missing both strikes. That's going to end their round. All right, that brings us to Grog and Percy. Percy, make a wisdom saving throw.
Taliesin: This is a wisdom modifier plus d20?
Matt: It's whatever your wisdom save is.
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Matt: Ones and twenties tonight. So you manage to shrug the effect, but that's your turn. Grog.
Travis: I would like to look to the woman that swung and missed and go, oh, I think you meant to do this. And I'll swing for the body of the hydra.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Travis: And 20.
Matt: 20 hits.
Travis: Why didn't I use the stupid dice, but that's okay. 19?
Matt: 19 damage.
Travis: And 11.
Matt: All right. (whack) You hit once again, almost like you're cutting down a tree. You're hitting the same mark you hit last turn, carving a large chunk of the throat out. You can now see the exposed bone underneath, and it's starting to gurgle through its hissing. You bring the axe around with the inertia on the backswing and slam it into the base of another one of the necks. As it slams into it and gets wedged in there, you have to pull it out with a giant spray of blood that actually spatters across the female tiefling, which you now see. Who, as it sprays across her, she licks it off her pointed teeth, and you can see she brings her sword up, ready to go ahead and attack it again. She's glaring at you now with a this-is-mine type expression. Vax.
Liam: All right, so am I still up on the elevated part of the stone?
Matt: You are, yes.
Liam: The one that's occupied with Grog, I'm going to jump on it and cling my legs to the side and try to slice down as I go, over the side wall. Okay. First is a 28. I'll just do that. And it's a sneak attack because it's occupied with Grog, obviously. So that is a two-- this is my Keen Dagger. That's a nine plus... nine, 13, 16, 19, 24. Nine plus 24 is 33, and then the second dagger, Flametongue, nine, ten, 19.
Matt: All right, that does hit.
Liam: Okay, that's a regular old four plus six is ten, and then out comes the Venom Dagger, which has already spit its poison, and that is a 26, which also hits, and that is a four plus six is ten. So (dagger noises) down its neck.
Matt: All right. As you spin over and arc down onto the opposite side there, nice. Well done. I forgot to roll for-- it does resist the poison at the end of its turn, by the way. Though even with the disadvantage it still managed to hit you last turn. All right, cool, so you flip over, arc yourself down after the series of dagger blades, carving these two long, ragged wounds down the side of its body. As you hit on the opposite side, where the stonework is starting to crack a little bit from the impact and swishing about of its physical body.
Liam: Can I ask, do I have a bonus action at this point? I'm hasted, and I've done three attacks. Is there time for a bonus action? I don't know.
Matt: You have an attack, bonus action attack, and then the haste attack.
Liam: Okay, I'm good.
Matt: All right. Keyleth.
Marisha: Should I try and get these fuckers off, or should I just kill the damn thing?
Laura: Attack the hydra.
Marisha: I cast Call Lightning and bring a lightning bolt right down on its head.
Matt: In the same space, you can see there's a burnt hole in the top of the canopy where that fire column came through, there's a slight sizzle of ozone before a giant hammering blow of lightning streaks from the heavens down into the body. You feel a jolt of energy in the daggers. You pull them out instinctively before it manages to make its way to your body. Go ahead and roll damage.
Marisha: (whoops) Nine, eight, bringing us to 17. 21 damage.
Matt: 21 damage, nice. All righty. That ends the round. At the top, where the secondary head you blew off was, two more heads sprout out. It now has seven heads.
Sam: Hey guys! There's more heads for me to knock off!
Laura: Hey, that's the best thing ever!
Sam: We get to keep doing it!
Laura: I bet if we keep doing it though, I mean, eventually the heads will outweigh the body and it'll just have to fall over.
Orion: Okay, well. He's 20 feet in radius himself, isn't he? Sweet! I'm going to-- oh, there's a lot of people, though. Who are they? I put my ring out and I'm going to do instantly, quicken spell, do five more SP will bring me down to one sorcerer point, and I'm going to huck two Fireballs right in the center of the hydra.
Matt: Okay. All right.
Orion: But you're off to the side. You're not on it. Are you on it?
Matt: So you're drifting over here? Oh. No, you're just aiming at it. Okay. So. Back-to-back, you used the last of the sorcerer points to fire two Fireballs that explode, one after another. Go ahead and roll damage on both of them.
Orion: 20-- what is that?-- 29, 31, 35, 36, so that's 41.
Matt: 41 for the first one. That's almost straight sixes and fives. That's awesome.
Orion: 34, so that's 39.
Matt: 39. Were you adding five to each of those?
Orion: Yes.
Matt: I don't think you're supposed to do that for Fireball.
Orion: It's any fire attack.
Matt: Oh, that's right, because you have the-- never mind. You do. Yes, that's right. I need a reflex save from Grog and from you, Vax.
Liam: I'm going to do rogue's evasion. I'm going to use Matt Colville's die made of iron from a meteorite.
Sam: From a meteorite?
Liam: Hopefully not die.
Sam: Wait, from a meteorite?!
Taliesin: To be fair, the die didn't dodge the earth.
Liam: What kind of roll is this? Saving throw. I've rolled a 17.
Matt: This is a 20-foot radius.
Laura: So everything in that area?
Liam: Everything in the area. It's done. I rolled a 17. Is that a success or a failure?
Matt: What is the, what's your spell difficulty?
Orion: Spell save? 17.
Matt: 17, so that just makes it for the first one, yes.
Liam: Just makes it. For the first Fireball?
Matt: For the first Fireball, yeah. You avoid that entirely.
Liam: Do I need to roll again? We're all going to roll again in a moment?
Matt: Yep. Roll for the second one now. Because two exploded in a row.
Liam: Oh, now. That is less.
Orion: Oh, hold on a second. Wait. I want to put a pause on this real quick.
Laura: You can't. You already did it!
Orion: I asked the question before I cast the spell. Is the hydra itself 20-foot radius? And I got a nod, so I figured my spell--
Matt: The hydra itself, the creature, it's a 15-foot diameter.
Orion: Diameter.
Matt: A radius is from the outside of it, from the middle.
Orion: Radius is different from diameter? Okay.
Sam: Geometry, kids.
Orion: Well then, it's fine, I'll shift it closer--
Liam: It's done. This is why this is interesting. So I succeeded the first time. I failed the second time, which means I halve whatever the damage is, which is high.
Matt: Okay, you take 18 points of fire damage.
Liam: That's okay.
Matt: Grog? Two saves.
Travis: What am I rolling, sorry?
Sam: You're trying to beat 17.
Travis: Oh, I rolled a 14, plus anything?
Sam: Yeah, you've got inspiration, friend.
Travis: Yeah, I do!
Orion: Plus his what?
Travis: Proficiency or what?
Matt: It's whatever your dex saving throw is.
Travis: Oh. Two. So 16, plus--
Laura: So 18 for the first one.
Travis: 18 for the first one.
Matt: 18. So you take 22 points of fire damage.
Liam: Where did all that math go from the last game?
Travis: Nine.
Sam: Nine?
Travis: Nine.
Taliesin: You can take it.
Travis: Yeah, I got it. I'm all good.
Matt: Here's the other side of it, though. We'll get to it in a second. Nine? You take 39 points of fire damage.
Laura: I don't want to say it, but Trinket's right there.
Matt: Oh yeah. Roll a saving throw for Trinket.
Sam: No, remember? I said leave Trinket behind?
Laura: Yeah, I know you said that, but he also attacked him already.
Matt: Roll a saving throw for Trinket.
Liam: Come on, Trinket die. Oh my god. Okay.
Laura: Don't say it.
Liam: No, it's good.
Laura: 17 for the first one.
Matt: Okay, that just makes it. So Trinket takes 22 fire damage. All right, and then the second one?
Marisha: I'm eating so much sugar, compulsively, out of nerves.
Laura: It's stuck in there.
Liam: Oh wow, it's not either, it's really on an angle.
Laura: It was really on an angle. That's unfortunate because one of them was good, and one of them sucked.
Matt: So what did you roll?
Laura: Seven.
Matt: Seven, all right. So with the explosion, both explode out of the way. You both manage to avoid the brunt of the damage. Trinket falls unconscious on the ground, the smell of burnt hair. The hydra looks rough. However, the individuals also nearby that came in are also blasted back by the Fireball. Everyone but the cleric and the mage in there are hit with the double explosions. Everyone taking full damage except for him, who takes half on the first one. They all of a sudden look around, dazed and frustrated.
Sam: Yeah, we just set off a nuke on the thing.
Matt: The hydra, due to the fiery impact, collapses inside the stone structure.
Sam: Dead?
Marisha: Dead?
Matt: Dead. So how do you want to do this?
Marisha: Our kill!
Orion: Oh my god.
Liam: With casualties.
Orion: Before the last one reaches it, I actually cast really hard Control Flame. It totally doesn't work this way, but I do it anyway. You bastard, I didn't mean to do this! And I'm going to hammer like I did with Flaming Sphere when we were playing in private.
Matt: I'll say you do this. You set off the first Fireball. As it explodes and damages everyone in the radius, it blows one of the throats of the hydra apart. The heads are now caught on fire. As you take the second Fireball, you set it off, shouting that outward. You use Control Flame at the same time as the Telekinesis you're still maintaining to envelop the explosion of the Fireball and contain it in the center. You slam it and let it detonate as part of the impact into the torso, where the heads are currently attached. You end up blowing half the heads off the hydra in the process. The rest of its body's trying to keep itself standing up. However, the explosion itself sent the stone wall around you guys broken into pieces and shards now sticking upward. The hydra backs up and falls onto its side, impaling itself on the shattered stone wall that you had kept up as it slowly slides down on the wound and gurgles out its last life breath, the rest of its body on fire, slowly sinking to the base of the stone wall.
Orion: That was really cool.
Travis: Who can heal really a lot really fast?
Laura: Trinket! I get up and run over to Trinket and hold his little head in my hands.
Marisha: Who's bad?
Travis: Trinket's unconscious.
Taliesin: Trinket's unconscious.
Marisha: I run up to Trinket and I cast Cure Wounds on Trinket in a 3rd-level spell slot.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Help him!
Travis: He's going to be fine.
Matt: As you guys rush up--
Liam: Yeah, Vax is rolling down the corpse of the hydra to stand in front of these strangers.
Travis: I've rushed to Trinket's side, too, from where I'm at.
Matt: All right. You're right at Trinket's side. You're flying in here.
Sam: I get closer and do the Superbowl shuffle in front of our new visitors, like, yeah, that's what we did.
Marisha: Trinket heals for 21 damage.
Matt: Trinket gets up, charred but okay.
Marisha: Who else is bad?
Matt: Trinket looks over at Tiberius and gives you a glare.
Marisha: I use it again for Vax. Ooh, that's better.
Travis: I rolled two hit dice--
Matt: Well, you aren't at a short rest yet. Because right now, as you guys are just standing there, the rest of the other party is now stepping up to you. The main human you now see in armor. He has dirty blond short hair, little bit of stubble on the chin, very well-armored, and the armor itself looks like it's taken a beating. He steps up and says, "All right. I'm going to ask you a question. What the fuck are you doing?!"
Liam: I think we're killing a hydra. What are you doing today?
Matt: "Fulfilling my contract."
Sam: Oh, by not killing the hydra? Because that's what you just did.
Liam: Listen, we don't know what the fuck you're doing. Take the hydra. We're not here for a bounty; we're trying to help the city.
Laura: Well, no, give us the money.
Marisha: We did want some proof.
Matt: He looks back to the rest of the group and the cleric steps forward and touches his shoulder for a second. Shrugs it off and says, "No! No. Skags that wander these lands, taking creatures from underneath those who are lawfully permitted to hunt these beasts and take that bounty, and that makes you breakers of the law of Vasselheim."
Sam: What's your name, sir?
Matt: Turns over and looks toward you, takes a couple steps forward, leaping off of the broken stonework on this side. "Aldor. And I work for the Slayer's Take, those of us that are empowered to hunt contracted bounty-given beasts and creatures in this land. You have gone out and laid claim to a beast that you had no lawful right to."
Laura: Well, the Bastion up on the wall said we could, so that's why we did it.
Marisha: While all of this is going down, I'm going to casually walk over and open my little harvesting book and start harvesting some hydra blood.
Matt: As you attempt to do that, the mage walks up and goes, "I wouldn't recommend that." You can see her elven face, there is a glare of frustration and standoffishness that is very sincere. "Do not step closer."
Travis: I'd put your hand down. You see, I had a horrible day yesterday, and unless you want to end up like puppy-dog here, we'll all end up in a big pile of blood, unless you find a way to split your take with us, and maybe let us go on our way. You see, we're new in these parts, and we have a habit for killing.
Matt: "Who would pay you?"
Laura: What do you mean?
Matt: "Where were you going to take this creature for the bounty you keep speaking of?"
Liam: Which one is talking?
Matt: This is Aldor, the same human fighter.
Laura: Aldor, they told us we could kill it and then give the heads and then bring it in and then they would give us money...
Sam: We didn't think this through. Listen. Let's level with you. This whole escapade was not very well thought out. We're new in town. We don't want to step on any toes. We did you a solid; we killed your thing. Let's calm it down a notch and let's just talk, shall we?
Laura: Why don't you just tell people you killed it, we helped, you get the money, you give us half of it, and we call it even?
Liam: Otherwise, we're going to go right now.
Matt: He laughs to himself and looks back at the rest of them and says, "You have to understand. The Slayer's Take's contracts are binding. Magically. If we don't take this creature in after dealing the killing blow, we're at an impasse with the Slayer's Take."
Laura: Oh. Can you stab it right now? Maybe it's still breathing?
Liam: Can anybody heal it? Can you kill it again?
Matt: The cleric steps forward, this human cleric, older, whitish hair. Steps forward, his mace at his side, armor currently spattered with hydra blood, looking a little charred, but for the most part okay. He says, "Okay. Before this gets out of hand, perhaps if you come with us to the Slayer's Take, there would be a possibility of us still enacting this contract if we find a way to magically bind you to it. Now, mind you, I don't know how the funds would be legally distributed; however, if you talked to the leader of our order, perhaps there could be some sort of a resolution to this."
Sam: What funds are we talking about, here? What was the contract that you had been binded by?
Matt: They look at each other and take a step back defensively and say, "We don't discuss money matters out in the open where it's so easy for bodies to be hidden."
Travis: Who is this leader of yours?
Matt: "The one that you're looking for... is on the other page." (laughter)
Sam: Aldor is no longer talking, right?
Laura: No, Sean Connery's talking now. I'm sorry.
Matt: "The Huntmaster." (laughter)
Sam: That's your leader?
Liam: I suddenly remembered my Charlemagne.
Matt: "Are you taunting me?"
Liam: I'm sorry. Not at all. Listen, we were about to come to blows. You and I are going to work this out. Words are mightier than the sword, right?
Sam: Don't ever do that again.
Travis: What if we return, saying that you had acquired our services in the killing of this beast?
Sam: We were subcontracted to you, yes.
Matt: "The only way that would work is if you were contracted to the Slayer's Take beforehand, which if you were to agree to be inducted, perhaps that would alleviate the concern. We could then write you into the contract magically, share the funds, even, and you would be free to accept contracts to kill creatures at your leisure."
Travis: I'm sorry, a little clarification. We get paid to kill?
Matt: "We're not out here for fun." At which point the tiefling female behind him says, "Hah, say that yourself. I'm out here for both." She flicks her sword and the blood across the ground.
Travis: Are you in the company or know of Siren?
Matt: They all look at each other. "She's been known to do work with the Slayer's Take, yes."
Travis: Yeah, I'm definitely in.
Sam: Introduce yourselves, if you don't mind.
Matt: "Let's do that as we walk." At which point the cleric says, "Take the heads, cleave them off. We'll take them back as trophies to prove the contract is sealed." The leader, Aldor, says, "Very well. Clean your weapons. No funny business. A single moment of your eyes wandering to your blade. I don't want it to have to come to blows. Let's carve up this creature."
Sam: Oh, what will you do to us? What you did to the hydra? Oh no! Not kill us.
Matt: "I really, really don't like you."
Sam: Few people do.
Liam: You don't have to worry about that. We're out here helping the city for the sake of good, not earning a paycheck.
Laura: I mean, I was going to ask them for a paycheck immediately after we'd gone back to the city, but you know.
Liam: That's how you roll.
Matt: "There's a very lucrative trade on monster-hunting in these woods, but you have to make sure that you're certified. Otherwise, you're taking money and food out of the mouths of us and our families."
Liam: Certification is key.
Matt: "Come on. Gather up the creature's bits." And they all go to start carving into the body of the hydra.
Laura: Ooh, can we help?
Marisha: Now I start doing my thing.
Liam: I've got the naughty bits.
Marisha: Do I need to roll for this?
Matt: You don't have to, actually. The group are very well trained, and as you go to try to, the tiefling puts her hand down and starts tearing pieces out. There's a dominance, a standoff here.
Laura: Can I have a scale? Just one more scale?
Marisha: I want some stuff.
Sam: It's all right. We'll get it and we'll figure it out when we get there.
Matt: There seems to be a general feel here that you've already broken the law enough. If you really want to fight for it, you can.
Liam: Let's quit while we're ahead.
Sam: Yeah, let's deal with the naughty bits later.
Matt: It takes about half an hour or so to reap the bits and pieces, then again making your way back, after you've pushed the remainder of the body into the pool itself, letting it slowly sink to the bottom. You all make your way back the path you came in an awkward, quiet march.
Laura: Oh, you guys set that bait out. You guys killed that ape, didn't you?
Matt: Aldor gives you a look. "Good to know we aren't the only trackers in this town."
Taliesin: That's so clever. Clever girl.
Matt: Eventually make your way back to town, skirt around the outer wall to one of the three main gates, this one right on the outskirts of the Braving (stutters). Too many creatures. Braving Grounds. The gates open. You're all led in, first question at the sight of you guys, but Aldor raises his hand and says, "No, they're with us; it's fine." You all walk in, leads you to the outskirts of the Braving Grounds to a new area of the town you have yet to travel to. At which point, he introduces, "Welcome to the Quad Roads. This is where the Slayer's Take makes its place. This is also where the Erathis's Crown is. Best you pay an homage to the deity of civilization while here." He pulls out a small gem around his neck with a small symbol on it, kisses it, and puts it back in his shirt. You guys continue walking to what is now, you can see these large roads that streak across. You've seen them join with the other sections. This is the most central of all the various districts of the city of Vasselheim. There is a very large trade bazaar structure not that far out of the main gate that leads to the center of this district. You can see barkers shouting out left and right to you, various phrases dealing with food and various crops, and creature fresh meat. "Fresh meat out of the Abundance! Takers of the Abundance!" And people yelling out for general goods, packs, leathers, large carts being wheeled past you, until eventually you make your way to what looks like a very old, dark-wood lodge, about three stories high, decorated with dozens of tusks and claws and other trophies that look as old as the building itself. A carved wooden sign stands bolted to the top of the porch that says "Slayer's Take Guildhall" in the common tongue. Approaching the door, still that awkward quiet keeping over the group, there is an engraving into the doorway-- it's pushed into the wood-- that reads, "Here is where the hunters gather, keen eyes and blades at ready. We cease the unknown's cackling laughter. Our will is strong, our members plenty. We stand against the tide of darkness. We do the deeds few men can handle. Reap forth a trophy from the carcass. We are your strength, we are your candle." Aldor does a knock on the door. The door opens, an eye looks through, and the door swiftly opens as another individual who's dressed in a makeshift leather and hide armor steps aside. You're all let in, carrying the large hydra heads through that have been gathering looks from the individuals watching you charge through the streets. To the center of the room, you see what looks to be amongst the loose cast-iron candelabras that are affixed to the rafters, small candles flicker for the interior light, you see a long desk where a halfling male of muscular build sits eagerly rubbing his hands together, his harsh features and light scars dotting his face and hands, his red hair showing tinges of grey. His shifting smile belies a youthful vigor as you approach with the trophies. "Aldor! Welcome back. How goes that bleeding mess-headed beast? I see you seem to have dropped it before you." Aldor takes the first head that he's carrying and chucks it to the ground. As it rolls across with two large thuds, the rest of the congealed liquid seeping into the wood. "Aye, that's true, but we bring a bit of an obstruction in the way." Glances to the rest of you. "Obstruction, you say. Okay. Well, this is a curious phrase. Please explain to me what has occurred in your outing on this contract." Aldor scratches the side of his face. "Well, it seems that we have a group of skags."
Laura: Not intentional. Skags.
Matt: "Not intentional skags out of the forest, intending to hunt and managed to deal the killing blow to our mark."
Orion: Actually, I did that.
Matt: "This one did it." He wipes some of the soot off his face. "Amongst other issues."
Orion: Sorry. My aim was off.
Liam: We've come from Emon. We're not exactly familiar with the customs and traditions of your city. We were merely trying to help. My friend may have slaughtered the hydra-- unintentionally, of course. We're hoping to somehow fit into your society. Not sure how that works. Maybe you can help?
Matt: The halfling walks from behind his desk with his hands behind his back. (laughs) "You come from Emon. You are not familiar with Vasselheim, yet the first thing you do upon arriving is leap down to the Vesper Timberland, fighting a freaking hydra."
Laura: It was attacking the wall. We were protecting you.
Liam: A hydra attacking your city. We were merely following our conscience.
Matt: "No, this is okay. I like the balls you all have. This is ridiculous, what you've done."
Laura: I have enormous balls.
Marisha: Yep, we both do.
Liam: See? They're massive.
Matt: He steps away. "Lady. I appreciate your brashness, but I would hope that you also act like a lady."
Marisha: Oh.
Laura: Oh.
Marisha: That's a high standard.
Liam: Careful where you're walking, little man.
Matt: "All I say is I appreciate-- yes, your bear is quite fierce."
Laura: He's got giant balls, as well.
Matt: He reaches past and looks to the wall and you see there are two dire bear heads affixed to the wall of various ancient degrees.
Marisha: Don't look, Trinket. Don't look.
Matt: "Well. I can see that you may have breached the contract here, and there may be ways of perhaps rectifying this, should you take the pledge. The pledge itself is a process, one that I myself cannot specifically judge upon. This would have to go to my boss, the Headmaster. My wife." (laughter)
Liam: I feel you.
Travis: Respect.
Matt: "I will see if she is available. One moment." And the halfling patters off down a hallway.
Liam: That is fucking awesome.
Laura: That would be amazing.
Matt: Came back a few moments later. "She would like to see the skags now."
Sam: What is with skags? Just call us people, please?
Travis: We have a name. Vox Machina.
Liam: Perhaps you've heard of us.
Laura: Remember it.
Matt: "I have heard of it not before. I will call you this upon you making the pledge. Until then, you are a group of forest-walking skags."
Sam: All right.
Matt: You follow him into the back hallway, down past a series of doors, some of which are half-open and ajar. You see what appear to be bunks or rooms for rest. There are some shields and various old weapons set up as decor against the wooden hallways. Down to a large, heavy door that looks like it's actually, the red leather stretched across it, nailed across all parts of the doorway, with a branded symbol in the center. The same symbol that you saw adorning the, almost like a relief behind the Slayer's Take lodge entranceway sign. As the door opens, the halfling pushing it aside. "Please, enter. She would like to talk to you." As you guys all step inside, the interior, a soft, glowing magical torch lights the room from the ceiling. The entire room is a large office or study. There are books and meticulously kept scrolls. At a glance, you can see they break down various creature types, that talk about indigenous bestial creatures, some talk about the anatomy of mythical and mystical beasts. This is a research facility for the hunting of any such creature that would find its way near or in the vicinity of Vasselheim. There, waiting for you, not at her desk, but leaning against it, with her hands also at her back, similar to her husband, you see before you in very finely crafted dark brown and black studded leather armor, a small shoulder cloak fixed and tossed over one shoulder, tousled short brown hair, deep purple skin. The second tiefling you've seen today. This woman stands with bright white eyes, no pupil. Her tongue flickers out of her mouth like a snake a little bit as you enter. And she looks about the rest of the party. "Please. It would be my pleasure to talk with you for a moment about what you have done this day. Thank you, husband." The door slams shut behind him.
Laura: You two make an adorable couple.
Sam: Yeah, he's a peach. Good find.
Matt: "Welcome, skags. You seem to not be liking this title. A skag is an affectionate term we use for those who break our rules and will go to prison, perhaps beneath the Amaranthine Oubliette."
Sam: Well, as long as it's affectionate.
Liam: We understand we've broken the letter of your law, but perhaps not the spirit of your law, which is maybe more important.
Matt: "Which is why you are here and not currently being taken for the hall of judgment."
Liam: We're very grateful.
Matt: "Now. My husband said you have interfered with a contract that has already been enacted."
Sam: We didn't know we were interfering with it at the time. We thought we were just doing good, and we're here to make right by that.
Liam: We're tourists, basically.
Matt: "Which is also why you are not at the hall yet. He also said you showed interest in joining our ranks to avoid this prosecution, which I think is a very smart move." And she walks behind her desk and sits down. "Should you be cut out for our work, that is. You have proven to have slain this hydra with the accompaniment of one of our roving bands of monster hunters."
Laura: They didn't do much, but yes.
Sam: We're quite capable fighters. Grog here almost won in his fight the other night. Sorry, Grog.
Matt: "You're the one that nearly felled the Hammer."
Travis: I am.
Marisha: So you have heard of us.
Matt: "I've heard of this one."
Sam: Show her the lip.
Travis: I kept a keepsake.
Matt: (laughs) "A fine trophy. Do not show him you still have that. I don't think it would go over too well. Now. Most applicants for our humble family make it maybe a month or two before the Vesper Timberlands take them. Those that remain, well. They prove worthy of our business contracts. You are all on trial by deed, under my claim and authority. Should you agree and fulfill my request, indeed, you will be absolved of your infractions against the Slayer's Take and be given membership to our age-old tradition. With membership comes with access to our lodge, food, room and board, and training facilities. Simple arms can also be provided. Those that bear our insignia may also get a discount of supplies at most of Vasselheim's merchants. Most importantly, though, you will then have access to our bounty contracts. To specify, we don't just hunt beasts and creatures. A large part of what we do is harvest from our marks' requested components. Blood, eyes, teeth, organs. We receive orders from all across Exandria, from as far as even the city Emon, which you apparently hail from."
Laura: We have a keep there.
Matt: "How nice for you."
Sam: Greyskull.
Matt: "I will make a note of it." And she reaches over and grabs a quill and not even looking at the paper, just scribbles.
Liam: We're friends with the emperor, thank you.
Matt: "Well, perhaps this emperor and many of these scholars or seers or mages you've encountered have ordered from us specifically required components, for you see, the most powerful of magics within nations require a focus or sacrifice of some kind. Many of these require pieces of these creatures. So many contracts are from very high-paying clients that have better things to do with their time than wander skulking about the forest, seeking such things as a hydra. There's a lot of money to be gained should you be up for it. I would ask you to take a contract, complete it, and return. That is all. You would have three days to do so. Do you accept?"
Sam: What is involved in signing or binding this contract?
Matt: "There is a small ritual that binds you to the contract. Within this time it must be completed. Should you fail, the contract is absolved, and your membership is revoked."
Sam: Oh, it's a trial just to bind the contract?
Matt: "Your trial is to take the contract and you have three days to complete it."
Taliesin: Is there a payout on this contract?
Matt: "Oh yes, you will still receive the money for it, and with membership, from what I have been told by my husband, possibly even share in the bounty for this hydra you helped slay earlier on this day."
Laura: That's good, because otherwise they didn't get any credit, right? Because it was like, magically--
Matt: "Precisely. Also a part of the three-day contract, with three days before it is null and void."
Liam: We've taken out a beholder and a handful of illithid. We're not really worried about your contract. Give us your contract; we'll sign it.
Matt: She chuckles under her breath. "That is good to know," she says disbelievingly.
Sam: There's an insignia that we get? Is it given to us on some sort of jacket for members only? (laughter)
Matt: She reaches to part of her shoulder pauldron, lifts it up, and you can see there's a brand on the side of her arm.
Sam: My body's a temple. I don't like that.
Matt: "Then perhaps you'd like the judgment."
Sam: The judgment? Oh no, no. Do I have to get branded?
Matt: "It does not hurt much."
Sam: (whimpers) I'm really wimpy.
Matt: "Gnomes... Three days. Will you accept?"
Laura: Yeah, let's do it. We're totally tough.
Sam: Could you do mine in henna? (laughter)
Matt: "I will take that as an acceptance on your part, as well."
Sam: Thank you. Yes. I'm with my group.
Matt: "Good, good. Now, I trust you work well as a team, but I am curious how well you work with others. As this is a test, I will be dividing your band between two contracts."
Liam: Ex-squeeze me?
Matt: "Two teams."
Sam: Do we get to pick the teams?
Matt: "You, gnome. Giant. Ranger. Tinkerer. You will form the first team."
Laura: What?
Liam: That is bullshit.
Matt: "You will be taking your contract with a couple of other hopeful possible members, as well. Three days to fulfill. Now, cutthroat. Dragonborn. Vine-speaker. You will form the other team."
Laura: Does my bear get to come with me?
Matt: "Your bear is allowed, yes. I shall now look over our extending contracts to decide your test for tomorrow. Go. Return in the morning fed, armed, and ready to set out. And hopefully get affiliated with your journeymen members. Now, be gone. I have business to do."
Laura: Wait, no. We work as a pair. Maybe you don't know that about us.
Matt: "Oh, then this should prove a very interesting test."
Liam: You don't understand, we haven't been apart in about--
Laura: Ever.
Matt: "Life is hard here in Vasselheim. Deal with disappointment."
Liam: Oh, I'm sorry. What was your name again?
Matt: "I am known as the Huntmaster around these parts. But should you wish the name in its full, Huntmaster Vanessa Cyndrial."
Liam: Thank you. Vanessa... Shitmaster...
Travis: Don't. I grab him and I start walking out of the room.
Sam: Vanessa?
Matt: "Cyndrial. C-Y-N-D-R-I-A-L."
Sam: I am not going to spell that right.
Matt: "In the morning  fed, armed, and ready." Knocks the desk twice. Her husband closes the door behind you. You take a deep breath and realize this will be a very interesting challenge.
Marisha: Husband? Do you have a name other than husband?
Matt: (laughs) "They call me Mertin, yes."
Marisha: Mertin?
Matt: "Mertin Cyndrial, yes."
Sam: Mertin Cyndrial... Well, this should be interesting. We'll set off on our journey right away, then.
Travis: When do we get our brand?
Sam: After we complete the task.
Matt: Taps his nose and points. "You catch on quick. This bodes very well for you, possibly."
Sam: Have a good three days.
Travis: Can we stay in the guildhall while we're waiting?
Matt: "You are not members. Soon, though. When one's brand is achieved, as much as you like."
Sam: All right, Grog. Let's go.
Laura: Question, husband. Is there a way to change those little pairings that she made? Perhaps get my brother and I on the same team?
Matt: (laughs) "Trust me, there's no way to change my wife's mind. I've tried." (laughter)
Matt: He walks off. And we'll conclude the session for the evening there.
Liam: Eat a bag of dicks. [end of transcript]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone and welcome to Critical Role an online show on Twitch where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors roll dice and play Dungeons and Dragons. My name is Matthew Mercer. I'm the Dungeon Master. For returning fans, welcome, and for new folks, prepare. A couple of fun things to announce: first things first, unfortunately we are down a Percy this evening. Our buddy Taliesin picked up a con plague in Alaska this past weekend. He had a great time, but came back very ill and has been trying to get better, and is unable to make the game tonight. Which makes the current storyline a little interesting, but we'll work it out. It's fine. No Mercy Percy is going to have some business he's attending to. Thank the Critters for that. That's an awesome hashtag! So Taliesin, I hope you feel better. We miss you. Next week we continue that arc. Let's see, first and foremost, still every 100 subs we get on the channel we have a giveaway to someone who's active in the chatroom. The winner of that giveaway gets a signed picture of the cast of Critical Role, as well as a signed poster by our amazing artist Kit Buss, who was with us for our last session. Those are both given away to whoever wins that, so keep those subs going. Also, there is currently going around a hashtag: No Shave 'Til 10k. A number of people on the stream are a part of that. All sexes can compete and be a part of this, too. No Shave 'Til 10k. If you want to be a part of that, go ahead and tweet that out. Get that hashtag going and I'll see if I can convince Marisha to let me do that. We'll see. At the very least, for my Halloween costume. All right, so other cool things to talk about: all of tonight's donations are going towards the Extra Life charity. The Extra Life charity is a drive that's part of the Children's Miracle Network Hospitals. A lot of great people in the community have been supporting this and we're supporting that tonight. So any donations tonight will go to Extra Life. Also over the next two days, we will also be streaming here at Geek and Sundry doing a lot of other charity events for the Extra Life charity drive, including a small DND game-- some of us-- on Saturday evening with the Vox Moronica crew. So that should be fun. Come check that out! Oh, Dungeons and Dragons, the official Wizards of the Coast folks are also doing their Extra Life stream over the next 48 hours. They're just going to be doing live DND streams as well. So starting tomorrow at noon through Sunday at noon, just constant DND on the Wizards of the Coast stream as well. And all of that is going to be raising money for Extra Life. So you'll have a lot of things to keep you busy this weekend essentially. So there's that. Also, we have New York Comic Con coming up in just a couple of weeks. Excited about that, for all you guys. We have panels on Saturday. Do we have times for those yet?
Liam: Between 1 00 and 4 00 is when we're doing stuff.
Matt: Yeah, between 1 00 and 4 00. We have about an hour panel in there somewhere and then probably two hours of signings at the event on Saturday. So 1:00 and 4:00! Leave that period of time open. Hang out.
Marisha: We'll have prints!
Matt: Exactly! And then on Sunday, outside of the convention, because we know a lot of the badges were snatched up before this announcement even happened and a lot of the Critters aren't able to make it to the actual con. On Sunday, we're looking around midday. We don't have a time or location determined yet, but that will be up on Twitter soon. It's going to happen. We're going to have an offsite Critter meetup. Where we're going to all be able to be there, hang out with you guys and catch up, sign stuff, say hi, and have a good time. So watch Twitter. If you don't follow us on Twitter, do it, because we'll have those announcements coming up very soon. So excited about that. Liam, you wanted to announce--
Liam: Yes! This is the final chance for y'all to jump on Joe Madureira's Kickstarter, Battle Chasers: Nightwar. They have absolutely killed their Kickstarter. They hit their goal, their initial goal about two or three days in, and they have been hitting every single stretch goal they've had. They've got one last mystery stretch goal left to hit. So it's a good time to get in and just get them to the very tippy, tippy top of their campaign, which is about to end. If you guys don't know, really quick, because I've been talking about it for two weeks: Joe Madureira, amazing comic book legend, has drawn everything. It looks like nobody else's and has a good history in game dev as well. Created Darksiders with his company, Vigil Games, that he helped found. And now he has founded Airship Syndicate, and they're making an RPG in the style of JRPGs that you've loved in your lives. But also with Joe's ridonkulous art style. So go get on it.
Matt: Yeah! Thank you, Liam. Orion, you wanted to say something real fast as well.
Orion: Yes. Greetings and salutations, everyone! Last week when Kit was here-- Hi Kit, we miss you! We went to It's a Wrap over in Burbank, California. Me and Liam and Laura and Marisha and Kit and her hubby. We were there and saw this robe, and I think Marisha and Laura were like, try it on, and I was like, okay. And I tried it on and was like, oh my god, it was made for me.
Matt: The Tiberius robe you always knew-- or didn't know you wanted.
Orion: Yeah, totally, I was like, oh my god, and Liam tweeted a picture about it, and then I was streaming on my stream on Twitch and somebody mentioned the robe. And Michael Bauman-- thank you again, I'm going to thank you on Critical Role for-- he donated $400, which was the cost of the robe, and then he just wrote in the chat, this is for the robe, so I'm wearing the robe.
Laura: That's awesome!
Orion: Thank you very much. Thank you so much you guys and all you guys who pitched in and stuff. Thank you.
Matt: We'll find many cool excuses to have that robe be displayed and utilized in many ways. I'm pretty sure he hasn't taken it off since he got it.
Laura: Yeah, it smells really bad, you guys.
Matt: Awesome! Anybody else have any other announcements before we get this party started?
Travis: I like cheese.
Matt: Travis likes cheese, ladies and gentlemen.
Laura: That's a good announcement.
Matt: I think so. It was very informative. Thank you, Travis. All right, then. Without further ado, let's go ahead and cut to the intro and then we'll jump right into the next episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back! So picking up after the events of last week, to give you guys a little bit of a refresher. After the party had returned from their journey into Vasselheim for quite a few weeks, they discovered upon returning that the illustrious Briarwoods, current owners of Castle Whitestone and overseers of the entire city of Whitestone and sticking point in Percy's background, were coming to Emon to meet for essentially a political banquet with Sovereign Uriel Tal'Dorei to discuss construction of a bridge. It was a very political endeavor. And the council of Tal'Dorei was invited, including Vox Machina. There was a week of preparation in going into this event to see exactly what the Briarwoods were about. Information was gathered at this banquet. Vax went on his own little adventure into the Briarwoods' room, in which they nearly killed him. (chuckles)
Liam: Hey, everybody!
Matt: I didn't notice the shirt until now. So yeah, the party rushed out to his aid. Much violence ensued. The Briarwoods eventually escaped through some sort of magical means that was not uncovered. However, they are no longer in the picture. The party was left with a destroyed carriage, a young carriage driver who had his hand shot off by Percy, and was then told to the guards to haul off and bring to their keep to throw into their cell for further questioning. Uriel was eventually drawn out and confused by the sudden chaos and vehemently requested that Vox Machina return the next morning to go over what has transpired. After which, the party during this event had encountered a tiefling by the name of Lillith, who was masquerading as one of the servants within the palace of Tal'Dorei. Aided them in the battle and revealed that she was being hunted by her sisters in a distant land and revealing herself here essentially opened up her physical presence to be pinpointed and then immediately sought and hunted by whoever was after her. The party then brought her back to the keep. They were on the way back before they were encountered by this bounty hunter and a small team of individuals that were coming with him to seek down, capture Lillith, and bring her back to her sisters. The party then defended her in this circumstance, brutally murdering one of them. Sorry, brutally murdering two of them. One of which was then raised and sent off as a present to the sisters by Lillith. One was salvaged, not given an honorable death, and sent to find his way somewhere northwest of Emon. Possibly towards Vasselheim or wherever else he may find his adventure. They then gave Lillith the opportunity to come stay the night to rest in the keep and they all made their way back to Greyskull Keep for the evening. And that was where we left off. So as the evening progresses you all manage to get your rest and gather your thoughts over the rather stressful experience you had the previous evening within the palace. The next morning comes around. You all come to consciousness. Breakfast is prepared by the servants of the keep. As you all wake up, start getting your meals and gathering what you want to do for the day, two individuals have not come down for their meal. Lillith and Percy.
Orion: Good morning, everyone!
Sam: Not everyone. We're missing two. A male and a female.
Laura: Oh. No.
Travis: You don't think?
Laura: Percy was upset.
Sam: Maybe he needed some comforting.
Orion: Oh, I see. Are you saying they're having relations?
Sam: I'm not saying that.
Laura: Perhaps we should check on them?
Travis: We should totally check on them!
Sam: Okay, but if there's a sock or a gun on the doorknob, don't go in.
Laura: Or a ribbon. She wore a ribbon.
Orion: Well, I was thinking last night, Grog, that we're probably going to be here for a little bit before going anywhere. Do we go anywhere?
Laura: We have to go see Uriel.
Orion: Who? Oh. Right! Yes! Also, I really want to see Allura. For no particular-- actually for very specific reasons. Yes.
Travis: I think he's lying.
Orion: One of them is  I want to pick up one of the Earrings of Telecommunication. It has been finished for quite some time. We just have to go to where she resides to pick it up. Then one of us could have another one.
Liam: That robe just takes it to a whole new level!
Laura: Yeah, it really does.
Orion: I feel so good.
Liam: I'm somewhat entranced.
Orion: I'm telling you, it's helping, too.
Travis: Do I feel a little tingle from my belt? And can I roll for a beard check?
Sam: Oh, beard check?
Travis: Six. Two.
Matt: You wake up, realizing that the morning has transpired. You reach up and grab. And what you guys notice as he comes up is there is a dark charcoal smear across one side of his face where facial hair would once be, to match the other side that is currently beautiful quaff and shining in the dapples of morning light that come through the keep window.
Travis: You know the remedy for it, you just turn your face in the looking glass.
Laura: Yeah, from this angle you look amazing Grog.
Travis: My god, I'm so handsome. Right? And then just horror. Sheer horror.
Orion: (poof) A little dust and fix that for him.
Laura: Oh, so it looks normal again? I like it! Yeah. Beautiful. Don't touch it.
Matt: The color's a little off, but it looks better than not having it.
Marisha: In my head you're like those Mr. Wooly magnetic toys when you're a kid.
Travis: I would shave it and get it even, but let's be honest, given history, it's going to take care of itself soon enough. These things don't live very long.
Laura: I'm going to go upstairs and see if our guest, Lillith, is all right. I don't want to disturb Percy just yet.
Matt: All right. You head to the guest room. You have one guest room upstairs that was among the rest of the rooms that you guys had constructed.
Travis: (singing) They're going to be getting it on!
Matt: You knock on the door. A moment passes. No response.
Laura: Lillith? Are you with Percy? Lillith?
Matt: You knock a second time and the door (creaks) opens a little bit. It has not really been locked or closed.
Laura: I peek my head in.
Matt: You peek in and look.
Travis: Did you check for traps?
Matt: Roll a-- no, I'm kidding. (laughter)
Laura: Damn it!
Matt: Already off! No. As you peek into the room, the lights are dimmed. What little bit of candles are in there are already down. Glancing in, the sheets are clean and set, the bed's been made, and there is a small piece of parchment that is folded on the edge of the bed.
Laura: Go and read it.
Matt: Read it? It reads, "Vox Machina, thank you all for your hospitality and protection through this past evening. I would stay, but the longer I remain, the more danger I am in, and as such, put all of you in as well. I shall travel across the Ozmit Sea to seek the guidance of my cousin Zahra, in hopes of finally getting out from under my sisters' baneful gaze. Nevertheless, I wish you all the finest of journeys, and I hope we meet again soon. Lillith."
Laura: She's so cute.
Marisha: I liked her bow. It was cute.
Laura: I tell everyone that she's gone. Gone.
Travis: No, she's in Percy's room! Scanlan, let's go see if he's banging!
Sam: All right, let's go! (laughter)
Matt: You run up and Percy's room is-- the door is already partially ajar.
Travis: (boom)
Matt: It bursts open. (wham) Slams on the side of the door, looking in the room. He's not there, is the first thing you notice. However, what you do see are a series of different books of sketches and designs and half-concocted blueprints for different things are crumpled and torn across the room. The bedsheets are thrown off the bed. It looks like the room has been continuously tossed through some sort of frenzied action, either seeking something or just out of emotional frustration. This room is left in far more disarray than you're used to seeing true to Percy's character.
Sam: My god, Grog. Percy's a hoarder.
Travis: Right.
Sam: Or he's in serious distress.
Travis: I think it's the previous.
Sam: The hoarder?
Travis: Yeah. Probably.
Sam: We must find him, don't you think? Our friend's in trouble. I proceed down to his tinkering lab. Doesn't he have some sort of lab downstairs?
Travis: My room's like shit, and I'm not in trouble.
Sam: Well, that goes with your character.
Matt: Yeah. You head down to the basement area, and to the right is the cell, to the left is the workshop. The workshop door is currently closed. There is a small slider eye vent where you can peek through.
Sam: Can I reach the eye vent?
Matt: You can if you leap hard enough and catch it on the edge.
Travis: I boost him up.
Matt: Okay. Looking inside, you can see, the forge is aglow. You hear the tangs of metal being hammered against the anvil, and you can see the form of Percy framed against the backlighting of the forge. He's feverishly working away on some sort of project.
Travis: Is he naked?
Sam: No, he's working too hard. Maybe we should just leave him be. Seems focused, driven, like a madman.
Travis: Oh. I get it. Like a madman?
Sam: I don't think you do.
Matt: At which point a voice rings out from across the room: Percy unmoving, still continuing his work, shouts over his shoulder, "Please, leave me be. I have a lot to think about right now."
Sam: Would you like a meal brought down?
Matt: "I'm fine. Thank you. Really. I need some time."
Sam: All right. If you're making things, a little ladder for the little perch here might be nice. Just in the future! But not now. That seems low priority.
Matt: He stops his banging, walks over and scribbles something on a paper, then goes back to banging. "Noted." (clanging)
Travis: I drop Scanlan and I lean in and I go, beware the water! It burns!
Matt: "Yes. Yes, it does, Grog. Good boy."
Sam: All right. So we go back up. Tell the fellows, Percy's in a mood. He's creating right now. I think we should just leave him be.
Laura: Understandable.
Liam: Let him get it out of his system.
Marisha: I'm really worried about him.
Sam: Yes.
Orion: Matthew? Rolling-- 12. I'm just trying to teach my pet something but I rolled a 12.
Matt: For?
Orion: Oh, I want it to follow. To follow.
Matt: To follow. Okay. You gather, based on the recent intensity of trying to teach things to Lockheed over the past week. You succeed in a few. There is a bit of balking frustration that perhaps you've overstepped a little bit, and Lockheed feels maybe there's less of a friendship here more than a real master-servant relationship, at least in this moment, and does not seem to be receptive to your attempt.
Orion: He's in a mood, also. Why is everybody in a mood today?
Sam: I know. Percy's hate-smelting downstairs.
Laura: Percy has good reason to hate-smelt. He seems rather disturbed that the Briarwoods got away.
Sam: Yes. I feel responsible.
Marisha: Out of curiosity, did anyone else hear him-- did anyone else just happen to hear what he said in that fight last night?
Laura: I was a little bit preoccupied by watching him shoot a servant boy over and over and over again.
Marisha: It was after that, actually.
Laura: What did he say?
Marisha: Never mind.
Sam: What? No, spit it out. What did he say? It seems important.
Marisha: It's hard to say. You know Percy. I don't know where he gets these lines.
Sam: Is it fuck? Is it shit?
Travis: Cock! Bulls! Dong! Wang!
Liam: Steampunk!
Marisha: Jeez. Okay.
Travis: Donkey wang!
Marisha: This is getting really off subject.
Orion: I'm going to go down to my laboratory.
Laura: What did he say?
Marisha: It was when he was screaming the cluster of things as he was shooting that mercenary in the face, and he said, "What are you doing? You have no reason to be here. Your soul is now forfeit." Really, that last part is the most important one. The first stuff is fairly average. But yeah, "Your soul is now forfeit."
Travis: It's a good line.
Laura: It's a really good line.
Sam: Thought he was just trash-talking. You think there's more to it?
Marisha: I thought it was maybe a line and then it seemed really aggressive and strong and specific, so it made me think a lot. I don't know.
Laura: Did you ask him about it at all?
Marisha: We haven't seen him since that happened.
Travis: What do you think?
Laura: What, do you think his Pepperbox is-- what?
Marisha: I think he's not telling us everything, that's for sure.
Sam: Well, we all have some secrets.
Marisha: Yeah. But screaming, "Your soul is now forfeit?" That's not a secret. That's saying you peed the bed when you were a kid.
Liam: I worry, too, but he did lose his entire family.
Laura: He did pee the bed when he was a kid.
Marisha: Oh, really?
Liam: I am assuming. But he lost his entire family to those people.
Marisha: Sure. But he wasn't screaming this at the Briarwoods. He was screaming this at a random mercenary.
Laura: Well?
Marisha: What does that mean?
Travis: Maybe his soul is forfeit.
Marisha: To what?
Travis: Death?
Laura: Maybe we keep an eye on Percy.
Sam: That's a fair point, though. We'll keep an eye on him. He seems to be in a fragile state right now.
Laura: Percy's not the one who killed a poor old woman, though.
Sam: Did we kill her? I thought we just made her sleep and then walked away.
Travis: Nope. No. Total massacre.
Laura: Tiberius destroyed her.
Sam: Tiberius, you killed an old woman?
Orion: I'm not there.
Marisha: Yeah, that's actually another thing I wanted to talk about. That was also really intense. You know, I get it. It was a hard day. It was a hard day, and we tend to get a little aggressive sometimes after hard days. We've all been there. But he didn't just murder an old woman. He chainsawed her. A sleeping, unconscious woman.
Travis: It was pretty great!
Sam: Are you saying that we should take it down a notch? Or maybe not brutally destroy the bad guys?
Marisha: You also were the only other one who seemed to be confused as to what was going on.
Laura: I shot her. I shot her in the back. Let's be honest. I didn't chainsaw her, but I did shoot her in the back as she was running away.
Sam: I made her go to sleep. That was peaceful.
Marisha: That's what I'm saying. That was good. That was nice.
Laura: I was aiming for her shoulder, if it makes any difference.
Travis: She did have that sweet little run, which was so cute.
Sam: Are you taking moral exception to some of our behavior?
Marisha: That might exactly be what I'm saying. Man, you see this is why I like you, Scanlan. You're so much better at the words than me. I don't think I even knew that's what I felt until you said it just now.
Sam: Well, this is something perhaps you should pray on and think on. If there's something you'd like us to change about our behavior, we can consider that. We're all friends. We're allies here. We should pay respect to you.
Marisha: I just don't want us to--
Liam: It's a fair point. We don't want to be corrupted by the very evil that we mean to stamp out in this world. She was trying to kill us. But your point is taken.
Marisha: She was a really old woman.
Liam: But she wasn't the secretary. She was trying to kill.
Marisha: Sure. But she was unconscious.
Travis: She actually didn't do anything, either.
Marisha: Yeah, she didn't really do anything at all.
Travis: She could have been taking notes.
Laura: She had a wand!
Marisha: I'm not saying she wasn't a threat and I'm not saying we shouldn't handle threats. I'm saying maybe we shouldn't dissect a woman with a spinning Krull blade who's sleeping on the ground. Defenseless, running away. She was fleeing.
Sam: All right. You know, this is constructive criticism, and we'll take it as such. And I, for one, will maybe not desecrate and denigrate bodies.
Laura: Just beds! And temples. (laughs)
Liam: I don't know! I mean, I see what Keyleth's saying, but I don't really want to cramp your style, Scanlan.
Sam: Oh, I'll shit on things. Maybe not people.
Liam: We're like the A-Team, and that's your specialty. I don't really want to-- See, you should just shit when you feel the urge.
Laura: What time is it? Do we need to be getting to Uriel?
Travis: Oh yeah, what time is it?
Matt: At this point, it's probably pushing on 11 am, close to noon.
Laura: We should probably be getting to the palace.
Matt: Tiberius, what did you say you were doing down there? What did you say you were doing down in your laboratory?
Orion: Well, I was doing my research on that stuff last night and this morning.
Matt: Your which one?
Orion: It's just my ability because of my class. I do the backstory.
Matt: Your backstory is?
Orion: I am a noble sage.
Matt: Well, there's a noble and there's a sage.
Orion: Yeah, I know, and I spliced them because it made sense. No. The noble part is the RP. The sage is the perk.
Matt: Okay. Gotcha. That's good to know. All right.
Orion: And I was writing down the sigil to the keep. That's completed.
Matt: Okay. So the sigil is there for you. All right. And so as the sage-- All right. Okay. So yeah. Not difficult to research. There are a number of books. They're older books and things that were installed as part of the construction of this laboratory for you, and information that you have gathered since. There are various bestiaries and gatherings of information about the dangerous denizens in the countryside around you, and it is a very dangerous place outside of the few points of civilized society that has built up its own defenses. Throughout the evening and the morning, you've managed to find eventually a piece that talks about various undead entities and the process of undeath, and necromantic magics that have been perverted throughout the generations to defy the natural cycle of life. You do come across an entry about vampirism. It is extremely rare and was largely thought abolished close to 200 years ago. There are very rare whispers of any sort of cases out there, and usually as soon as something comes to any sort of public knowledge, large mobs gather and whoever was infected with this horrible state was hunted down and killed. What you do learn from this is religious symbology, while classically thought to have an effect on people afflicted with vampirism, actually has no effect. It's more of a superstition, but does not actually have any negative impact on the individual. However, certain things that do render a vampire easier to destroy: the presence of sunlight. Anything that counts as sunlight can damage them progressively the longer they're in it, prevent them from restoring their health, and ultimately destroy them and turn them to ash, should they be brought to the brink of death in the presence of sunlight. Also, very quickly and consistently rushing water. Being held into a rushing stream or under a waterfall would have a similar effect to sunlight. You do also know the stake in the heart is also considered to be a way to destroy them. It does not actually destroy them, but it does render them paralyzed and has to be done when they're in their resting place, within their coffin and/or the dirt that is considered their resting location. Usually that is the beginning step: to find and locate where the vampire is resting, stake in the heart, and then carry the body to sunlight or rushing water. And that's how they're permanently destroyed. You also find out that if a vampire is thought to be killed under any other circumstances, the body turns to mist and is nigh invulnerable and eventually finds its way back to wherever they've hidden their resting place to recover within a very short period of time, making them extremely dangerous, unless you have the right situation, the right conditions, to bring them to that point. So that information is now at your disposal.
Orion: Wonderful.
Travis: Do you want to tell us what you've learned?
Orion: I did it right this time! Knowing that, I take some files and-- I want to check if I can-- Nope. I can't do anything yet. That's it. I'm going to go upstairs.
Matt: Okay. So as you guys have gathered the time and what you might be, going forward, doing for the rest of the day, Tiberius comes upstairs with a bit of a smile and an air of confidence.
Laura: Oh good, you're back.
Liam: Tibs, we were just discussing the future of the group and the direction we've been taking. And a point was introduced that maybe perhaps, we started as a sort of a-- mercenary group is a bit strong-- but this alliance we have formed out of convenience. We all needed to eat. But now that we're at the stature we are, in a keep, in Emon. Friends to the emperor. We want to figure out what we're doing here. Do we want to be just powerful badasses who walk around getting what they want, or are we trying to enact some positive change in this world?
Orion: Yes, absolutely. That's what my items are for. I've only found one of them. There are still three or four, if they even exist out there. There are countless things to go and venture forth and explore.
Travis: What? Your items?
Orion: The artifacts, the Ring of Boros, the old hag. That is the next step in my quest. She told us it would be in the Feywood. Right?
Matt: Feywild. Close. Researcher.
Orion: That is where we need to go. But that's why we ran into her in Vasselheim, and she wouldn't tell me anything more.
Marisha: How do you plan to use your items? For better good in the world?
Orion: Well, you've seen how I've used my Mending Wheel. Countless ways.
Travis: Yeah, thank you. You healed my cask. I'll always be grateful.
Orion: Moreover, it would prove to the council that all of the things that I went on this journey for to begin with, it was true. Or for naught. And really, to gain the respect of my father and everyone else. You don't know how hard it is to be a chromatic dragon in a metallic world! It's not easy.
Liam: Well, there's no question that you are an invaluable member of Vox Machina, and our friend, and our family. And that is not in question.
Orion: Of course. Which is why I have pledged my loyalty to you all. And I need your strength, as well. There is no way I could accomplish in my mission alone. I mean, Grog, when I ran into you in that one bar. How many men were you beating up? I counted eight, if I recall.
Travis: I think that sounds right.
Sam: He can't count.
Travis: It's that many.
Orion: Here was this brute who I would have ran away from, but here you were, and I found you to be rather charming. I figured, well, that's some good company to keep, rather. And then I met the rest of you, and look where we are now!
Laura: Yes. Tiberius, the point of this is you killed an old woman last night, very brutally. Please maybe don't do that again.
Orion: She felt nothing, but of course. And I was giving my new Krull blade a good old try.
Laura: Yes, you were. Maybe not on sleeping people anymore. People who are actually attacking us.
Orion: She was-- okay, fine.
Liam: Well, I think the point is your abilities in arcane wonder are expanding daily. Exponentially. And perhaps be a little tentative. Do a little practice run in the woods on your own, once in a while, and see what the effects are before you go whipping it out.
Orion: Are there woods nearby?
Sam: This is an intervention. We love you very much, but you killed an old lady.
Travis: I like the way you kill people.
Orion: Well, yes.
Laura: We're all on the up and up now, right?
Orion: One raises a hand to me or Vox Machina, they are going to die.
Travis: Yeah! Yeah, they are!
Orion: It is simple. I do not know why this is a discussion. I won't be as cruel--
Marisha: You know, she didn't even really do anything. She was really old.
Laura: She was attacking us.
Liam: Keyleth.
Marisha: What?
Liam: Clearly, we all love you as family, and nobody blames you, but you once killed a child, and none of us blame you for that.
Travis: Is it too early to start drinking? I pull out the cask of ale.
Liam: And that happened in the heat of battle.
Marisha: You know, I'm really sensitive about that, Vax. I'm really sensitive about that, Vax!
Liam: I'm well aware.
Marisha: And that was different.
Laura: It was an accident!
Marisha: That was pretty fucking deliberate, what he did.
Orion: Yes, to someone who was opposing us. That was a child who was innocent. Or was he opposing us, too? I don't remember, actually.
Liam: And it all falls apart.
Marisha: He was being puppeted by sorcerer Michael Jackson.
Liam: No one agrees with you today more than I, and I think we can adjust our perspective slightly. Right, Grog?
Travis: What's the word?
Liam: See?
Sam: Kill softer.
Orion: I'll show you how. You just have to do it really slow.
Laura: Uriel's waiting for us.
Sam: Let's table this. We'll stick a pin in this discussion. We'll all be thinking long and hard about this.
Laura: Keyleth, it wasn't intentional and everybody knows that.
Liam: Absolutely. Not intentional. No.
Marisha: I turn into Minxie and start walking.
Travis: Minxie! I go and give a little scratch behind the ears.
Matt: You guys gather and make your way into the city of Emon proper.
Laura: Actually, before we head towards Uriel, we probably should-- do we have any sort of proof that the Briarwoods actually did horrible things and it wasn't us attacking them?
Liam: Well, I've got these little scars right here.
Matt: The scars are still there. They're still wounds that are healing.
Laura: All right. Cool. Just making sure that we had something.
Liam: And then there was what's-his-name, Awesome Pants, who was there.
Laura: Seeker Asum.
Orion: Allura saw everything, as well.
Sam: Did she see the fight?
Laura: Allura didn't see the fight.
Liam: We know she knows what's up, but whether she can be used as a reliable witness is-- we've got multiple witnesses.
Sam: There were those guards, too. There was guards outside the door.
Liam: They were incinerated.
Sam: Oh yeah.
Laura: Plus, they were the Briarwoods' guards, anyway.
Orion: One of them was still alive. I didn't kill both of them.
Laura: He went away with the Briarwoods, I'm going to assume.
Travis: What a dick! We go to see Uriel.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: I made a choice for the team! (laughter)
Matt: As you're having this discussion, all of you make your way into the city of Emon, across the districts to the Cloudtop. You're greeted and let within the gate into the central district there. You make your way to the palace of Tal'Dorei, through the front doors. The guards that are there lead you in and one of them says, "Uriel is waiting within the throne chamber." You guys are led down the main hallway into the very center of the palace.
Marisha: I come out of Minxie.
Matt: The nervous guard, thankfully, puts his weapon away and is like, "Oh! Lady Keyleth, my apologies." And puts his spear to the side.
Laura: Trinket's still here, though.
Liam: I buzz over to that specific guard and say, do you have a lost and found here? I have this really badass serpent-style belt. Sometimes it crawls around on its own. Sometimes it's just a belt. And I lost it here the other night. And I'm really hoping-- I mean, it ties everything together. Is there anyone I can check with?
Matt: "Check back after you've spoken with the Sovereign, please. Thank you." Leads you guys on. As you head down the main hallway-- and you recall this hallway. This was a long, dangerous trek the first time you came to the palace. This was where Uriel's family was possessed. This is where you had your battle with the glabrezu. This is where Pike was slain. This is where you had to pull the shadows from the bodies of his family. This is a very emotional place that you really haven't been to since that sequence of events. Walking in already has this tenuous state of low-simmering energy. As you're brought into the main chamber, you can see there is the dual thrones for Uriel and his wife. His wife is not present; his family is not present, just Uriel sitting on the throne. There are a few guards on the different entrances to the room. As you walk in, Uriel just sits there on the throne and gives you acknowledgment and ushers you into the room. You all step in. Trinket behind you keeping an eye out. Like a bear is wont to do. You guys make your way up towards the very edge of the central raised dais where the thrones are currently set up on. You now see on the opposite side of the room, Seeker Asum and Allura walk in, as well as Arbiter Brom, who is the cleric that is the Master of Law in the city. They walk up and flank the sides of the throne, stepping back a little bit to not gather all the attention, but definitely be there as a show of support. As they enter, the doors on the other side of the room and the door behind you open, and roughly 30 guards enter the chamber quietly. They all filter in, blocking all the exits. The doors close. No weapons are drawn, but there is a very strong showing of muscle in this room that you weren't expecting for this meeting. Once all the guards are settled and a really awkward silence hits the room, Uriel stands up from the throne and looks upon you. Pacing slightly, back and forth. "Thank you all for joining me. I must say, I am troubled by recent events, and I wish to speak to you regarding them before taking any action. I owe you that much for all you've done for me. Before you left for Vasselheim, you showed immediate interest in the Briarwoods. Percy in-- Where is Percival?"
Sam: Well, he's not feeling well today after the events of last night, so he stayed behind.
Matt: "Well, then please relay this conversation to him as soon as you see him. You exhibited interest in the Briarwoods before leaving for Vasselheim. I, through trust, did not inquire as to why. But upon your return, eagerly told you they were coming to this feast and invited you as part of the Council of Tal'Dorei to join this feast, as it was your request. I graciously followed through. You showed up. A meal was had. Questions were asked, although curious ones; I did not pry. Now I have since been notified, and seen a bit of the aftermath, that you, Vox Machina, seemingly attacked our guests shortly-- please. Listen. Attacked our guests shortly after the meal in their own guest quarters. Forcing them to flee, after you destroyed the hallway, ruined their carriage, murdered two of their guards, two more outside, and leaving Seeker Asum to witness this entire process." Asum gives a nod. "You then tortured their carriage driver, requested he be sent to the dungeon beneath your keep. And upon my sentries returning from Greyskull to deliver him, they find a freshly murdered old woman not far behind the path you took. Not long after, Seeker Asum found me and corroborated most of this unexpected, violent behavior. I then asked Arbiter Brom here to divine the nature of this murder. And through his divine sight, through the goddess Ioun, comes to tell me it was none other than you, Tiberius, that slaughtered this elderly woman while she slept."
Orion: Yes!
Matt: "Now, I am quite disturbed by the events of these past 14 hours, and I would like to hear an explanation. Arbiter, if you could please, prepare the space." Arbiter Brom steps forward and pulls forth from underneath his robes a necklace that contains a holy symbol. The same symbol you saw across the temple beneath the Slayer's Take, an eye-like inscription of the god Ioun. Brom grasps it, looks about you all, and prepares this slight hand gesture, and you feel a slight tingle across the skin that lasts a few seconds.
Marisha: Can I recognize the spell he's casting?
Matt: I'll say go ahead and make a-- this would be a religion check.
Marisha: He's doing a cleric thing, yeah? Seven.
Matt: All right. Unable to ascertain the nature. However, the incantation completes. No seeming noticeable effect. Brom nods and steps back in the line of the thrones. I want all of you guys to roll charisma saving throws.
Marisha: Son of a bitch. Always a problem.
Orion: 19.
Marisha: 11.
Sam: I get advantage, and I rolled a 27.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. Bards.
Liam: 19.
Laura: 13.
Travis: 18.
Matt: All right. Good to know. Uriel then looks to the rest of you. "So. I've said my piece for the moment. Explain."
Liam: I step forward.
Marisha: Can I do a quick insight check on Asum to see if I can still recognize if he's still affected by the mind-control thing?
Matt: Go ahead and make an insight check, sure.
Marisha: Ooh yeah! 28.
Matt: Glancing at Asum, the way he's looking at you and the general tension and feeling of the room, you gather that Asum is not his normal self completely. You step forward.
Liam: Uriel. With all respect, I needn't remind you what the group of people before you put themselves through on your behalf and your family's behalf. We almost lost one of our own. And if that counts for nothing here, then nothing makes sense. But if that is not enough, let us start here.
Orion: The Briarwoods are vampires. And that old lady, who was a butthole by the way, was with this demonoid person who we had to fight as well.
Liam: One thing at a time. That's true, but one thing at a time. We had prior knowledge of the Briarwoods' intentions before this evening. And I myself went to spy on them.
Laura: Here's the thing. Percy doesn't like them because they killed his family. They took over his home, after killing his family. He got away. He knows they're scary. We're trying to protect you.
Orion: So the point is, we all know how dangerous it is that the knowledge of vampire existence and the spreading of those vile creatures. And now we know they do exist. So however the means that that came about is neither here nor there. We know where they are.
Travis: And if you're wondering how we know they're vampires-- (whispering) Vax, this is your cue.
Liam: I will subject myself to any test, to any wizard or mage in this city who you know can ascertain the truth. To look through my eyes, to see my memories. I don't know shit about magic, but there are people who do.
Sam: Cleric Tristan also treated him last night for his vampire-inflicted wound. I know this all looks really bad on the surface, and we did not want to cause any disturbance within these hallowed walls, but there was a danger, we acted. Perhaps too abruptly and without telling you.
Laura: We tried to get your attention. I called for you immediately. As soon as we knew there was danger.
Liam: And don't take our word for it. Anyone, have them look in here.
Orion: Actually, you take a Stormwind's word for--
Matt: "Silence! Silence. You're in my court now, Stormwind. You put so much weight upon this trust, and you have done a good service. But also I've heard whispers that you've thrown this trust around in many circles. Remember, we held a parade in your honor; we spread the word of the good deeds you've done. We, at our own costs of Emon, built you a keep, a home, at great expense, to show thanks. And also, I believed, upon allowing you to join the council, put us square. I owe you nothing. Just as you owe me nothing."
Liam: Do you not want the truth?
Matt: "I want the truth, but I also want you to understand the stakes that are here and why there is this question. As the leader of this-- not this city, but this entire countryside, I have to be sure, and this is not the first time I have been lied to by very close, trusted people, so I have to be thorough."
Liam: This is why I offer myself completely into your control and put myself under your supervision and any user of the arcane arts you want to peer inside my mind, let them step up to the plate, because I have nothing to hide.
Laura: Also, while you are inquiring about him, you might inquire about Seeker Asum.
Sam: If you're worried about lies within your own ranks, I think you should start with him.
Marisha: In fact, I actually might be able to help Seeker Asum, if you will allow me to.
Sam: Help him?
Matt: You glance over at Asum, and Asum gives a look to Uriel and Uriel--
Laura: He was mind-controlled last night.
Matt: "I have had Asum at my side for the better part of 15 years. He is responsible, far more than your merry band has ever attempted, for keeping and maintaining the good and lawful state of this country."
Liam: Uriel, your own family was not themselves! And you know that! Look into my mind! Now! Today! You don't need to guess anything.
Matt: "It would also do you well to show respect. We are speaking, half-elf. Now, I would assign Allura to such an endeavor. However, it has also been noticed that she has grown quite friendly and attached to your group, and in this circumstance, there is question. So you will be, in a few days, assigned an individual to this ritual of which you are presenting yourself."
Marisha: Uriel, please--
Matt: "Shh. The Briarwoods, regardless of what you may think they may be, or we do-- that will show in time-- have shown nothing over the past five years but graciousness, and gone through all proper channels to establish this relationship between our city and theirs. Far more than the previous family ever attempted."
Liam: Well, one may smile and smile and still be a villain.
Matt: "That goes both ways. Now, please."
Marisha: Just let me do a quick restoration spell on Asum. If nothing is wrong with him, nothing will happen. It's harmless. It's like taking medicine when you're not sick. It can't hurt. And if I am wrong, then we can continue on. We can have Vax tested. Please, it'll take ten minutes. What can it hurt?
Laura: Up until last night, he was himself. Trust us that now he is not.
Marisha: He came to us.
Matt: "There has been nothing about his behavior, at all, to insinuate any change of anything of the sort. And I have known the man for quite some time, before I even took this throne. However, I will, in the good graces and the relationship we forged, allow this. Asum, are you all right with this?" Asum gives a nod. "Well, if this is to be how it is. Certainly." And he steps forward. The halfling approaches you, looking you in the face. All right. You would like to attempt your Greater Restoration spell?
Marisha: First, I meditate for a second, and I cast Enhance Ability on myself.
Matt: As a note, as you begin casting, you notice the guards all go for their weapons and ready themselves, uncertain of what's about to transpire. There is a tension in the room based on what this is going to be.
Marisha: Can I get some meditation music, Scanlan?
Sam: Oh! (chanting)
Matt: All right. So first you cast Enhance Ability on yourself.
Marisha: Am I maybe inspired by that?
Matt: Sure. In the tension of the room, this slow droning hum of the gnome, which you can notice some of the guards look at each other, confused. And Asum puts his hand up like, hold off.
Liam: It's Tuvan throat singing.
Matt: All right. So first you cast Enhance Ability on your--
Marisha: Self.
Sam: What ability?
Marisha: To enhance wisdom? Wisdom.
Matt: Okay. You reach out with Greater Restoration. You complete the ritual. You touch onto the arms of Asum. It fades, and you see in his eyes there's a moment of clarity and an inhale. A slight gasp, like some realization hits him and his expression changes and looks towards you and just goes-- He puts his hands out like this for a moment, just trying to almost tell you something. Go ahead and make a wisdom check. Just a d20. Or no, make an insight. Make a straight insight. This is more of an insight roll here.
Marisha: Okay. Oh! 29.
Matt: You get the sense through the subtlety of physical motion and expression, Asum is telling you, just go with me on this. He steps back into the place next to the throne. There's a brief moment of pause. Uriel says, "And, Asum?" Asum goes, "My stance has not changed. I know not what she is attempting or thought the situation was, but it appears to me that this was either misinformation or at least at the time being, hopefully, not a lie. But I believe Brom has taken care of that, yes?" And Brom gives a nod. "I certainly have hoped to." Uriel goes, "Hm. All right. Here's the circumstance: as it stands, I fear I must revoke Vox Machina's membership in the council of Tal'Dorei until further notice, for the safety of our countryside and the current tension in our relationship."
Sam: Objection! That's it. I just wanted to say that. Please continue. I just want it noted that we object strongly to this.
Matt: "I understand. And this will only continue until all of our investigations are complete."
Sam: Are we still allowed free rein to roam about as we please? Are we under arrest for anything?
Matt: "You are not under arrest. You are revoked from the council, and you will be closely watched until our investigations are complete."
Laura: How long will your investigations take?
Matt: He looks back to Asum and Asum says, "Well, depends on how quickly we can acquire the information; it could be weeks. I'll do my best to make it thorough and quick."
Laura: Are we allowed to leave the city in that time?
Matt: Uriel looks back and says, "You may leave if you wish. Know that there have been precautions taken. Should you attempt to flee, we will find you."
Liam: And when are you to look into my mind?
Laura: Weirdo! (laughter)
Liam: It freaking ends here. Right away.
Travis: Can you read my mind?
Liam: There is no spoon.
Matt: "We ought to speak to the Lyceum to find a proper individual of sufficient power and trust to do this, as Allura right now is being kept out of the scenario."
Sam: Are we allowed to speak with Allura?
Matt: "If you wish. Outside of these chambers. Do what you must to clear your name. I would like very much for this all to be true, what you're saying. But do not flee. Do not give an inclination that you attempt to escape this judgment, for we will take that as a sign of guilt."
Liam: We've no intention of going anywhere.
Matt: "Should we conclude that your actions were beyond reason and the moral fiber of this council before your return, we will have no choice to put a bounty on your heads, should you not return. I really, really do not wish to do this. Do not make me do this."
Orion: I stand up. "No need for threats, friend. Are we done here?"
Matt: "I want to believe you all. I ask you, show that my trust has not been misplaced all this time. Now, you may leave."
Sam: I look forward to the second parade you'll throw for us after our names are cleared.
Matt: "Very well."
Travis: I turn to the guards that were grabbing at their weapons and I flex real fast at them and then I walk.
Matt: Four of them go, (yelps).
Travis: Bitch! (laughter)
Matt: As you guys go back out the doors that you entered, the guards now a little closely following as you exit, leading you out of the palace, down the front steps, and essentially stand at the front of the palace gates.
Liam: I'm sorry. I was just talking to one of your friends. Have you seen a belt that is shaped like a snake? Sometimes it moves around on its own. And it answers to the name Simon, but usually it's just a belt and looks really cool. Have you seen it? Is there a lost and found I can check out? It's very dear to me.
Matt: The guard just looks for a second and goes, "I think you've got more important matters to deal with before you go looking for a belt, sir."
Liam: Where's that other guy? He was more receptive to this. Do I see that other guy?
Laura: Darling. Seriously.
Matt: The guards all turn around and start ascending the stairs.
Liam: It's on all the fan art. It really makes sense to have it on me.
Matt: They don't appear to be listening.
Liam: Keep an eye out for it. 100 gold to any chap who finds it and holds onto it for me.
Matt: Two of them stop in their step for a second and then keep walking.
Liam: I'm a nice guy! (laughter)
Matt: Go ahead and make a persuasion roll.
Travis: You're going to get six belts thrown at you.
Liam: That's terrible. Six.
Matt: It was a brief pause. But also. A brief pause.
Laura: You have a two in persuasion? Oh wow.
Sam: We'll break in tonight and find it.
Travis: Could we wait outside for Allura?
Liam: I'll risk it all.
Matt: All right. So you are now currently there in the cobblestone street of the Cloudtop District, removed from the Council of Tal'Dorei and left in this interesting circumstance.
Sam: Keyleth, what happened? Your magic didn't work?
Marisha: No, it worked.
Laura: What happened?
Sam: But Asum lied.
Orion: He gave her a magic winky face.
Marisha: Yeah, essentially. Yeah. He gave me like a--
Laura: What does that mean? Does that mean Uriel's under their control? I don't understand.
Liam: Is he playing some sort of long game here?
Sam: It must mean that we have something to fear from Uriel. Or someone else close.
Marisha: I don't know who to trust anymore, to be totally honest.
Travis: Really?
Marisha: It worked. I could feel it break. It worked, and he's got some sort of long game. I don't know if it's because he doesn't want Uriel to know, for whatever reason. I don't know if it's because he has some deeper, ulterior motive.
Laura: Do you think he was faking that he was healed, and maybe he wasn't?
Travis: Or maybe we have to bring proof of their vampirism back?
Marisha: No.
Travis: Oh.
Marisha: Wait. No to Vex. What was your question?
Travis: To bring back proof of them being vampires.
Sam: Proof would help. Hey! Don't we have a prisoner? Can't we question the prisoner?
Laura: Is he bleeding out? What if he's dead? We're so screwed!
Marisha: I made sure.
Laura: Yeah, the guy that Percy shot the hand off of.
Marisha: I cauterized his wounds, remember?
Sam: We should question him. He could have proof.
Laura: Oh shit! I hope everything's okay.
Orion: Wait a minute! I really need to go to Allura. She's our best interest right now.
Sam: We get it! You want her body. Now's not the time.
Orion: It is beyond that. There are several reasons to go. We need to get the Earring of Telescription. I need her to enchant something for me, too. As well as the fact I fear that our keep may be in danger. I would like to ask her if she may be able to set up a warding spell for--
Laura: Can you go get her and bring her to the keep? I need to find out if this boy is all right.
Marisha: Well, we can split up. I can go with you.
Matt: As you guys are having this discussion, the palace doors open and you hear the quick footsteps of Allura, rushing from the palace now, running towards you guys.
Laura: Saving the day. Again.
Marisha: Wait, she's coming out of the palace?
Matt: She's coming out of the palace, behind you guys. Like after the council had just closed. The meeting had finished. She basically gave chase to you guys and is now catching up to you on the street.
Sam: What the shit happened in there?
Marisha: We were just talking about you!
Matt: "Everyone-- I don't fully know what happened last night, and--" She looks to you, Tiberius, and says, "You didn't, did you? Please tell me you did not kill that woman."
Orion: Oh, I absolutely did!
Laura: But she was attacking us.
Sam: It looks bad, but she was a threat.
Orion: Her and another one with this-- what was he, a tiefling? Named the Broker attacked us. And that's why I killed her.
Matt: "Brom's divination is very clear. And he divined that the woman was currently filled with fear, attempting to flee, and unconscious when she was murdered."
Liam: How did she flee when she was unconscious?
Travis: She fled, went unconscious, then we butchered her.
Marisha: Just accept it for what it is, guys.
Matt: "I just worry. I know not what happened here, and I heard what you said, and I honestly do not trust the Briarwoods myself either. There was something about that meal and the conversation, and their presence that put me off entirely. It was strange. And what you say makes a lot of sense. Vampirism is a bit beyond what I was expecting. I did sense some powerful masqueraded arcane essence from Lady Briarwood. Look, I would recommend for this to do your best to be thorough in this. Bring back any and all information you can. From the words I hear, you probably have at best a few weeks before this comes to a close. And if you don't have enough evidence to support your argument-- well, I don't know."
Liam: Allura, all I know how to do is break locks, but I've seen these people do things with magic that have defied expectations. Why can no one look into my memory? You have looked across miles. Cannot anyone look into my mind and see?
Laura: They're going to do it!
Sam: Yes, but that might not be proof enough for them. Someone could have corrupted your mind.
Matt: "You have to understand. Not all arcane works that way. There are magics that can dabble in that realm, but none that specialize that here in Emon. Divination, yes there are elements of that. We can see the physical. We can see certain events. But to look into one's mind is a different magic entirely."
Liam: Are there no spells that can divine if someone's speaking true?
Matt: "That was attempted during that council, but after you left, Brom notified Uriel and the Council that many of you were resistant to the spell, and as such, it could not be verified."
Laura: (laughs) We should have rolled low! Just tell us you're doing it, we won't resist it! What the shit? Doesn't even trust us to tell the truth.
Travis: If we came back with proof?
Sam: What sort of proof do you think they would accept? The head of Lady Briarwood?
Laura: No, because it'll disappear the minute we kill her or something. They're vampires, I don't know what they do.
Matt: She gives a thought to that. She goes, "Interestingly enough, if an artifact or an item brought forth from them could be divined, that should tell all."
Marisha: Is there still the remaining wreckage of their carriage? Is that still there?
Matt: "The carriage has been disposed. It's been picked over, and there were remnants within the rubble of some sort of a 'siggle' of teleportation. But that is no-- a sigil, if you will." (laughter)
Travis: What sort of artifact? Like, a brooch? A handbag?
Liam: Are we talking about that motherfucker's teeth?
Orion: I need to see that sigil.
Matt: "Sigil. We're all learning together. That, I believe, has all been investigated and kept under lock and key with Asum. You would have to speak with him. I would like to help. I cannot come with you. I'm working on something else at the moment. Ah!" And she reaches into her pocket and brings out your Earring of Transcription.
Orion: Thank you so much, Lady Allura!
Matt: As she hands it to you, she gives you a really, really concerned look. And just gives it to you and hands it back. And it's a look of-- and it hits you: it's a look of disappointment with a hint of heartbreak.
Travis: Oh, that's the worst! I'm not angry, I'm just disappointed. Ugh!
Liam: I feel like I've failed you.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: She looks back to you as you take it and goes, "Do your best to clear your name."
Orion: I shall.
Matt: "I know you come of noble blood, and many of you stand to inspire many others of noble blood. As celebrated heroes of this city, there is a lot more on the line here besides just your well-being. There's a lot of people in this town that look up to you. Nevertheless, I've already said more than I should. Good luck."
Laura: Thank you, Allura.
Matt: She looks behind and you can see she takes this small hood of the same material of her robe that she's wearing and puts it up over her head and rushes off towards her white tower towards the edge of the Cloudtop District.
Liam: Fucking politics.
Sam: No one insight checked her.
Travis: She's telling the truth. Let's go make sure the prisoner isn't dead.
Sam: All right. So wait. What are our avenues? We're going to have to Columbo this. What are our avenues of finding proof?
Laura: We say as we're walking back to the keep.
Sam: We have a prisoner we can question. Who knows if that will yield anything. And then, we might have to go gather evidence, which means leaving town against his word.
Laura: Well, we're allowed to leave town.
Liam: No!
Sam: No!
Laura: Yeah! No! He said we're allowed to leave. We just can't look like we're fleeing, so we tell them where we're going. They can even fucking follow us. I don't care.
Liam: So we tell them that we're going to their political-- the people that they're trying to create a political relationship with? We're just going off to invade your political allies.
Travis: Oh come on! You half-elves. I swear to god! Have you never heard of lying before? Yeah! We don't tell them where we're going. We're going on a field trip. We're going to pick berries. Fuck all, but we go there.
Orion: The only way we can go there is telling them.
Travis: What? And we're going there, what for?
Orion: When I talk to Asum and get that sigil to that damn Briarwood keep. That's how we get there.
Travis: Why don't we say we're taking a picnic-- oh, we took a wrong turn. Hey, it's the Briarwoods!
Orion: We don't have to lie to them. We tell them where we're going, and we can just go there.
Travis: We don't have to if we don't want to.
Liam: You're pretty.
Laura: Especially that beardy side, Grog.
Travis: It's a full beard right now.
Matt: What you do know is the sigil that a teleportation circle is attached to is known when you cast or create the circle. The circle does not necessarily indicate or maintain the sigil it's attached to.
Orion: It's just a piece of it?
Matt: Meaning, there are two parts to it. There is the sigil that it sends to, and there is the actual ritual circle that is created. The circle that attaches to it is not the same as the destination. There are elements of it that connect it, but you would not be able to ascertain a sigil to Whitestone immediately from looking at the initial circle.
Liam: Thanks for the cups, guys! The cup.
Travis: I just noticed that!
Liam: Well, let's go check on this poor little shit in the dungeon.
Sam: And then the next step will be to seek out Seeker Asum?
Orion: I'd like to stop by the temple real quick to pick up my decanter.
Sam: How many errands do you have to run?
Laura: Endless errands.
Sam: All right. Go run your errands! We've got a mystery to solve.
Travis: Yeah, I want to be there when we talk to the prisoner, too.
Matt: Okay. You guys make your way back to Greyskull Keep. Are you going with them or you're--
Orion: I'm doing all the shit.
Matt: What are you doing?
Sam: He's got a list.
Matt: I would like to know the list.
Orion: I'm going to stop at an armory because I want my crossbow reinforced. I don't know what that means. I want to learn a different sigil. The one that I researched for the waste fair, or for the way-- the Feywild! There's this big city next to it that I researched, that is near it, and in that city might be a sigil. So I'm going to go see if I can learn it. And then I want to come back and start enchanting my blades.
Sam: It's a busy day.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: I can give it to you. I wrote it down.
Sam: Coming soon on Friday nights  The Adventures of Tiberius's Errands! 7:00 to 10:00 every Friday night on Twitch.
Orion: And then I have to go to the dry cleaners for my robe.
Matt: All right. So as you begin that process, the rest of you continue back to the Keep. As you approach Greyskull Keep, there are two individuals waiting for you at the gate that you do not recognize from a distance.
Sam: Wait, what? Say that again.
Matt: There's two individuals waiting for you at the gate. You can see at a distance, but you don't recognize.
Sam: They're our handlers, probably.
Liam: Grog, come on. Let's go have a talk with someone.
Laura: I walk with you.
Sam: We're all going!
Liam: Let's go arm in arm in one big line!
Laura: Well, they're right at our fucking keep. It's not like we're all headed in the same direction, anyway.
Orion: Who doesn't have a ring?
Sam: A ring of what?
Orion: An earring.
Marisha: I have one right now.
Sam: I think I do?
Laura: I have one.
Liam: I have one.
Laura: Grog doesn't have one.
Travis: How far away from the keep are we?
Matt: You're probably a good 100 to 150 feet.
Travis: I whistle really loud and say, who are these fucks in front of the keep? to the guard that we have employed.
Matt: Okay. So. Let me try and see who's on duty right now.
Laura: He has notes on who is on duty.
Matt: This would still be Shayne and Cordell. Cordell shouts down from the top of the wall and says, "I don't think they're a threat."
Travis: Right. We'll be the judge of that. As you were.
Sam: Grog, keep in mind, these are our allies.
Laura: Hello!
Matt: As you walk up and you get close, you get a better view. You're expecting ominous, armored guards. Somebody possibly assigned to escort you. Instead, you're greeted by what looks to be an older couple waiting at the gate. A man and a woman, dressed in simple clothes, weathered skin. And as you go out to them, they both smile.
Sam: We hate old people. (laughter)
Laura: Who are you?
Travis: Favored enemy!
Matt: They begin walking up, and the man steps forward. You can see he's got small dirty glasses at the end of his nose and says, "Hello, hello! Good afternoon, everyone! I'm sorry to be a bother. But unless my eyes and tales do deceive me, might you all be the heroes known as Vox Machina?"
Laura: Can I insight check to see if these guys are legit?
Sam: Legit what? Old people?
Laura: It could be Lord and Lady Briarwood, for all I know!
Liam: Me too. I did well. I rolled 18 on them.
Matt: Okay. From what you can tell, they are both happy, simple folk that are here with a tension of purpose, but nothing that seems to set off any alarms.
Sam: We are Vox Machina. I'm sure word of us has spread far and wide. We're a pretty big deal. Why have you made this journey to us?
Matt: The woman, who's holding his side, lets go of his arm and says, "We come to you humbly as representatives of the farming community just north of Emon's walls."
Marisha: Oh, I love farmers!
Matt: "I am Riley Klaus and this is my husband, Ben." "Pleasure to meet y'all."
Laura: Hi.
Matt: "You see, many of us here, we make our living through livestock and small crops." Ben takes over at this point and says, "Word is that the Sovereign will be calling down troops from Fort Daxio for a while, so the need for meats and fresh produce has been elevated." The wife, Riley, then says, "Around this time, over the past two weeks, a number of our finest cows and sheep have gone missing. No struggle or mess or signs of dire wolves. Nothing! We suspected thieves, initially, but we sent up our neighbor's boy Kyle to watch over them until sunrise and he saw the culprit. From what he described, a giant bird, larger than anything he's ever seen or heard of." Ben then takes over the conversation, "Wings at least ten carts long, tip to tip. Just swooped down, he said, without sound and in one motion snatched up one of our most virile bulls. Mr. Simms, just gone like that!"
Marisha: Mr. Simms?
Matt: "That was the bull." Riley says, "Kyle said he saw it fly northwest."
Marisha: Northwest? Can I do a nature check to see if I can recognize the creature he's describing?
Liam: Are we certain he's not describing a dragon?
Marisha: 26.
Matt: 26. You've seen some big birds in your time. This is, from what they're describing, a lot bigger than any birds you've encountered in your experience. You've heard whispers of larger birds in the wild, but you've never seen anything like that. You haven't had any personal experience hearing or seeing anything of this size.
Marisha: But it is a bird?
Matt: That's what they described it as. At night.
Laura: When did these birds start showing up?
Matt: "About two weeks ago when the whole thing started to happen." And then Ben kicks in and says, "Should this keep up, most of us will lose everything before the year is out. Now, we've talked with the leaders of the farming community this side of Emon. We've scrounged up what we could." And he brings up a couple of coin purses and she goes, "512 gold pieces, 37 silver, and 103 copper. That's all we can spare."
Laura: Keep your money.
Marisha: Yes, keep your money.
Matt: "We can't possibly--"
Liam: What about this? What if you supplied us with a small stream of produce for our servants here at the keep? For cooking, for feeding them, for feeding us when we're here? It'll be a sight less than 500; it wouldn't be nothing. You could still give us something.
Matt: "Yes! We could, we'd be more than happy to!"
Sam: However, despite what my companion is saying, we are not agreeing to go after this winged beast quite yet. We hear your plight, and we sympathize, and we will do what we can, but we have very pressing matters right now. Is there a deadline of some sort? When is your next harvesting season?
Matt: "I mean, there's no deadline, but the longer that goes by, the more and more we lose by the night. Two weeks in and we've lost half of our livestock. If the creature is this big, I imagine it eats quite a bit."
Laura: And how long of a ride is it? Is it walking distance?
Matt: "To... where?"
Laura: To your farm.
Liam: To your farm.
Sam: To your farm.
Matt: "North side of Emon."
Laura: Oh, so real close!
Matt: "Yes."
Sam: We are friends of the elderly, obviously, and also of the farming community, so we are very interested in helping you. May we talk about it a bit before we decide how and when we would tackle this problem?
Matt: They look at each other and nod and he taps her hand and says, "Yes. By all means-- If you could, please help us stop this beast from ruining our livelihood."
Marisha: And can you please tell us how to get to your place. Do you normally stay there? Are you normally home?
Matt: "We wander about the community, but we do have a homestead. If you look, it's the large red wood and partially brick-based homestead closest to the city walls, on the north farm. Right outside of Emon. It's hard to miss, if you're headed that direction."
Liam: Quickly. Presently, we will find you. Guys, we were told to sit and spin basically. I mean, what's wrong with earning some brownie points in the eyes of Uriel?
Travis: Mr. and Mrs. Kraut, as friends of the elderly--
Matt: "Klaus."
Travis: Right, Kraut. Do they normally come at night, or have they ever abducted any of your sweet bulls during the day?
Matt: "We've not seen it during the day. It'd be easier for us to identify if we had. Seems to only hunt at night."
Sam: And have they ever messed with a human?
Matt: "Not that we've heard of. Not yet." He gives you this sudden look of realization and fear. And pats and comforts his wife who suddenly realizes, oh my. Are they going to take us now?
Marisha: We'll probably be by like tonight or tomorrow morning.
Liam: Yes. Tomorrow morning at the latest. We have a little bit of business. Yeah.
Marisha: So we're in the middle of doing something. We'll get to it.
Matt: "All right. Well, thank you."
Liam: I take him by the hand and say, we will see you presently.
Sam: Here. My business card.
Liam: And you can take that to the bank.
Laura: You can't actually; it's worth nothing.
Matt: "Well, thank you for listening to us ramble on, and we look forward to hearing from you in the next day."
Laura: You will.
Matt: "All right." He pats her on the arm.
Travis: Travel safe, Mr. Kraut!
Liam: Hide your bull; hide your wife.
Matt: They both wander off.
Laura: We are in danger of being ostracized. We should really be nice to everybody right now.
Sam: We were just having a conversation about how we should try to be nice from now on. But we do have very pressing matters.
Travis: Yeah, let's get fucking in there and talk to that little--
Marisha: It's funny how that type of thing can come back to bite you in the ass.
Sam: I call up to Cordell. Oi, Cordell!
Matt: "Yeah!"
Sam: Remember when I told you not to let anyone linger outside the keep?
Matt: "To be fair, the Klauses are well-known in the community."
Travis: The Krauts?
Laura: The Klauses.
Matt: "They came here for business. I figured it was probably something you'd want to hear. I apologize."
Sam: By all means, use your judgment over the orders of your master. That's fine.
Marisha: Scanlan!
Matt: Cordell bows his head sheepishly. "I apologize. I'm sorry."
Marisha: Ignore him!
Laura: We are here to help people! We're here to help.
Matt: He does his finger like this and the gates open in towards the inside of the keep wall.
Marisha: And what is wrong with you all today?!
Sam: We had a really bad dinner last night. That's all.
Laura: I head straight to the jail.
Marisha: I follow.
Matt: As you guys are doing that, Tiberius, what's the first thing you're trying to do?
Orion: Stop by and pick up the decanter from the temple.
Matt: Okay. He said it required two days. It's been less than a day since you dropped it off, just so you're aware.
Orion: Then the only thing I do is visit the keep with the sigils library or whatever.
Matt: Oh, the Lyceum? Okay.
Liam: I'm not going. I'm just going to go hang out up on the wall outside the keep.
Matt: All right. As you head to the Lyceum, the clerk lets you in. What are you specifically looking to find or research?
Orion: The sigil that's closest to the Feywild.
Matt: Okay. In researching what they have at their disposal, you understand that the Feywild itself, because it is a separate plane, the magics to traverse it are a little more difficult to do. If you notice-- and I'll confirm here just to be sure that we're on the same page-- before I go full on this here. Pardon me, just a moment while I scan through the book. The mighty book. The book of might. Yes. Sigils of teleportation require the same plane of existence, meaning you can teleport anywhere within the Prime Material Plane that you exist in. To traverse into the Feywild, you have to actually find a door into the Feywild, and then you would be able to use a sigil from the Feywild.
Orion: Then I only pick up my decanter.
Matt: Which is not ready yet.
Orion: I don't do that! Damn, I forgot! My short-term memory is just jacked!
Matt: It's all good. It's all good.
Travis: You know, somebody's been to the Feywild.
Matt: Yeah. The Feywild. What you do find is that the Feywild-- the boundaries between this realm and the Feywild tend to grow weaker at full moons. It's tied to the moon cycle. And at certain places where nature is set to run wild. A lot of druidic tribes tend to mark these locations, and in some cases actually guard them.
Laura: We know where a hole in one is. Grog went through it.
Matt: And if you recall-- good memory-- in the Frostweald, the partially frozen forest where you had that conversation with the nymph-- that portal that she existed through was specifically a door into the Feywild, which you recognized.
Orion: What city was that near?
Matt: That was south of Westruun.
Orion: Then I'll go to the thing and I'll find the Westruun sigil.
Matt: Okay. Through your research, you do find a sigil to Westruun. This is allowing you to go into this portion for this sigil because you've already used the favor that you had to get the sigil of Kraghammer.
Orion: No, I didn't. I used the amulet and we got permission to come there. I saved that favor for this.
Matt: Right, the favor for Gilmore. All I'm saying is, you've used one of two favors to get that sigil. You have to invoke Gilmore's favor to get this one. Okay. And since you're a part of the circumstance, you acquire the secondary sigil. You now know, in your memory permanently, a sigil to Westruun. You don't know where in Westruun, but you are connected there. If you choose to teleport there, you know how to. That favor has now been used by Gilmore, so you can mark that. And on that note, we're going to go ahead and take a five minute rest break. So yeah, restroom, snacks, drinks and we'll be back here in about five or so minutes. We'll see you guys and continue this tense adventure. [break]
Matt: Welcome back. We've had our break; we've returned to the table. A quick note, we are 50 subscribers away from our next giveaway.
Travis: 50? Come on!
Matt: If we can get there, that'd be awesome! We'll have our giveaway-- the signed cast Critical Role photo and the cast signed art poster by Kit Buss.
Sam: Kit Buss, ladies and gentlemen!
Matt: Yeah! So you have all returned to the keep. You have found yourselves down to the basement area. You hear the distant pinging of metal, an occasional squeaking metallic noise. Like something is being altered, turned, or quenched in a water trough. Like the process of blacksmithing.
Marisha: I go to the edge of the door and knock.
Matt: As you knock on the metal door, it's like a (boom). The pinging stops. Just hangs for a second.
Marisha: Percy? It's Keyleth.
Matt: "Not right now. Please. I'm sorry. I just need to clear my head."
Marisha: Okay. We'll be here.
Matt: A moment later, you see Percy's eyes appear at the edge of the door.
Marisha: Hi!
Matt: Just looking at them, you can see they look a little sunken, a little weary.
Marisha: Did you sleep?
Matt: "Not as much as I'd like."
Marisha: Do you need anything?
Matt: His eyes look away for a second, looks back at you. "I'm all right. Thank you."
Marisha: We went and saw Uriel. Everyone in the city hates us. They think we're all criminals.
Matt: "Great. I have to get back to my work."
Marisha: Okay, yeah.
Matt: The slit shuts.
Marisha: Oh, we'll see you later, then.
Matt: You guys, however, walk down to the other side of the cell. The cell door's been closed. The keys are hanging on the nail by it. You have not used the cell until this point. It's technically pristine and unused since the construction of the keep, but the keys still hang on the key ring. On the inside of it, there is no thatch. Nothing has been put in to really make a comfortable floor. And hanging from manacles--
Laura: He's hanging?!
Sam: We're the worst.
Matt: He was put in as a prisoner.
Laura: I go and get the keys, and I take him down from the manacles.
Matt: As she rushes into the cell, begins unlocking the manacles. He's unconscious at this time. Dirt streaked on his face and spatters of dried blood from the blast of the gun.
Marisha: I go ahead and I administer Cure Wounds.
Matt: The wound at this point has been cauterized. You cast Cure Wounds as he starts to come to consciousness, in a heap on the ground. (coughs) It appears he may be healed of any damage he may still be sustaining from that, but the fingers are gone. This is beyond the magic you're capable of. He comes to consciousness on the ground, dirtied, sore. Essentially broken before you.
Laura: Does he look like he's been bitten at all?
Matt: You want to inspect?
Laura: Can I look at his neck?
Matt: Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Laura: 20.
Matt: Okay. You don't have a whole lot of medicinal experience, but you take a moment and inspect both sides of his neck, tilting his head side-to-side, as he's groaning and coming to. "What's going on?" Looking at the sides of his neck, there does not appear to be any sign of any puncture wounds, anything that would be reminiscent of what your brother currently is healing from.
Marisha: Can I do an insight check to see if he is also under a mind-control spell?
Matt: At the moment, no. He is barely coming to consciousness. There isn't enough of a presence at the moment to really read past.
Laura: Hey, there. Welcome back.
Matt: "Where am I?"
Laura: You are being held, at the moment, for your own safety.
Matt: "For my own safety?"
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: "How?" He looks at his hand.
Laura: Well, you were captured. We're pretty sure the Briarwoods are going to be pissed as hell that you let the carriage get hit. We're just trying to protect you, really.
Marisha: Really?
Sam: I mean, his friends all died, so.
Marisha: Do we not feel like terrible people enough already?
Sam: Let's not have this conversation in front of the prisoner. What's your name, boy!
Matt: "My name is Desmond. Desmond Otham. I am the son of a messenger, a courier of the de Rolo family."
Marisha: He's the son of a messenger! That's even more ironic!
Laura: Keyleth, do you need to step outside?
Marisha: No, I'm good. Continue. Son of a messenger.
Laura: Right now, everyone is at risk. The Briarwoods are bad people, you can attest to this, yes?
Matt: "Yes."
Laura: Yes. Can you tell us everything you know about them?
Matt: "It's not going to matter. They're going to find me. No one's supposed to get away."
Laura: You did!
Travis: There's always a first time.
Matt: "I don't even know where to begin." He adjusts himself, sliding back, putting his back against the wall of the cell.
Travis: I reach into the Bag of Holding. I pull out the little goblet, and I pour some ale into a cup, and I hand him a little bit of ale. No, it's fine. I take a little sip.
Matt: "Please don't take offense if I don't trust a drink from strangers who've, well, to be honest, put me in this position."
Travis: All right. I put it beside him.
Matt: "What do you want to know?"
Laura: We want to know if the Briarwoods--
Sam: Are vampires.
Laura: Pretty much. They're vampires, right? I mean, they're vampires.
Matt: "All I know from the stories I've heard. Mothers would tell their kids not to wander out at night because dark things crawl in the shadows. From what I know of vampires, they're not supposed to go out during the day, right? But I'm sure I've seen Lady Briarwood walk in the sun many a time."
Marisha: Only Lady Briarwood?
Matt: "As I recall, yes. Lord Briarwood doesn't make too many public appearances."
Sam: Have there been any strange goings-on in their residence? Sounds you've heard? People disappearing? Boxes coming in or out?
Laura: I cast Cure Wounds on him. I know Cure Wounds, bitches! Level up!
Orion: Have I reached the keep yet?
Matt: No, not yet. You're probably about an hour away, at this point. From the time you've taken to research, find this, learn the sigil to Westruun, and begin your trek back. Fortunately, you got what you wanted, but you're out of the picture for a little bit. He flinches as you put your hand up, and as you touch him, he exhales. You get to him just as he can react, briefly.
Laura: 11. Do I add anything to that?
Matt: I believe you add your Wisdom modifier to that.
Laura: 14.
Matt: He goes, "Look, my father worked for the de Rolo family before the Briarwoods came. My father vanished the night of their fall. My mother was taken in madness and lost to the night this past year. I was left alone. However, I knew the roads well between here and Whitestone and places between, growing up, traveling with my father. So I was made to be a coachman for the new nobles. I was paid, albeit little, and I was left alone. Now, when I say the new nobles, there were nobles that lived in Whitestone and worked along with the de Rolos, and they helped oversee parts of the town, the business, and the people. They had been there for many generations of their respective families, all under the de Rolos' guidance. But the night the castle fell, those nobles were dragged out. It's strange. I mean, after the brutality of that first night, it took days before the people of Whitestone knew what had happened. We saw the fires, we heard the battles, but no word of the victors until three days had passed. We were too scared to approach. By then, the Briarwoods called a town meeting. They explained their new rule over the town. A number objected, which is expected. Many strong-willed folk in Whitestone, those days. They were subsequently shot down at arrow-point. The rest were quiet. They then dragged out the noble families and executed them, gifting their property and titles to the various cut-throats and mercenaries they had hired, brought across the channel to help them take the town. They're not just two people; they've used a lot of money and influence from wherever they came from and brought a whole slew of very dastardly folk, who have since been given the titles once held by the other nobles of Whitestone, living in their homes, taking their tithes and most of the profits made from the businesses they've forced us to continue to run from within the city. A number of families fled into the woods the night after the executions, using the shadows of a moonless evening to keep safe. They were all found hanging from the Sun Tree the next morning. They kept things going as they were, mostly: farming, logging, manning the white marble mines. Business went as usual, all filling the pockets of the new nobles and the Briarwoods. We were given food, kept our immediate property. As long as we didn't attempt to leave, we were promised safety. That lasted for a few years, until the nobles grew bored. Twitchy. They began to abuse the people of Whitestone: scare us for fun, brand, cut, steal the children, leave them back, destroyed. They treat us like animals. Folks went missing. I was beaten so bad by my employer, Count Tylieri. But Lord Briarwood noticed, one night he was passing through the city. He saw wounds on my back when he was meeting with Count Tylieri. When he asked me in private how I got them, I couldn't lie. Couldn't resist him. He has a way of drawing the truth out of you. Now, he told me this unrefined violence was boorish to him and his wife. That was the last I ever saw of Lord Tylieri. Lord and Lady Briarwood took me in as their own driver and showed me Tylieri hanging from that same Sun Tree the next morning. I was thankful, then. In a strange way, life had been so terrible for so long, it was the first time I saw someone reach out and save me. They took me in as their driver after that. It was a better thing to be away from the anger and the fists of the thugs. But the more I got to know the Briarwoods, the more nightmarish I realized they were. Behind the walls of that castle was no longer a grand fortress that we heard it was. Seeing it, keeping watch and guard over our people. No, that was a domain of perverse magics and sacrilege, it was. The green fog drifting out from the ground where it stood. The same servants still run the halls, but they aren't living. They're walking vessels of undeath, their flesh slowly tearing away. The garden in back lies shriveled, a foul green mist forever pouring out. They're excavating something in the dungeon, plundering pieces. A lot of their attention seems to be down there; I don't know why. I dare not wander too far down. They bring up old things. Ancient things. Relics, books, bones. You live in that world long enough, you believe there is no way out. Death would be easy, though I've seen that death is no real end there. It's just the beginning of a whole new terrible existence. A far worse fate."
Laura: If we keep you here, protected, would you be willing to tell your story to someone else?
Matt: "Who would you want me to tell it to?"
Laura: The emperor. The guards here. An army that could go and fight the Briarwoods.
Matt: "Maybe."
Marisha: This could be an option to save Whitestone, and you would have your freedom.
Matt: "I don't know. You don't know what it's like. You don't know what they've done. They're going to find me."
Sam: We can protect you. We are safe here in this keep, and you're surrounded by very powerful allies now.
Travis: We've stood before them, and we did not fall.
Laura: It's true.
Matt: "I'll think about it."
Marisha: Would you like to stay in the guest room upstairs? You'd be more comfortable. You could get a good night's rest.
Laura: Far more comfortable. A little less safe. I'm going to put it out there.
Matt: That resonates with him immediately, and his eyes flash open. "I mean no disrespect, but if this is safe, then I'd rather stay here."
Laura: I think it is. And we will bring a bed down to you, make sure you're comfortable. I don't want you sleeping on the floor. That's terrible.
Matt: "You're all being very accommodating."
Travis: You'll get every consideration for protection. We value your info very much.
Marisha: You're also the key to our own freedom, so it's important.
Sam: You also caught us on a day where we're trying to be nicer to people. (laughter)
Sam: Lucky for you.
Liam: Just be glad you're not an old woman.
Matt: "I'll stay here for now."
Laura: All right.
Matt: "I need to think on it. I've been promised such protection before."
Sam: From the Briarwoods?
Matt: "From a few. And they're dead. An enemy of an enemy doesn't necessarily make them a friend, I've discovered."
Marisha: No, but it can make them allies if they have mutual enemies. Of their enemies. It's a little complicated.
Matt: This whole conversation, the emotional recalling of everything, you can see has been very taxing on him and his still mostly conscious state. He looks exhausted, scared, and still trying to suss out all the information coming at him right now.
Marisha: Grog, why don't you carry the bed down from upstairs?
Travis: Not a problem. Keep the goblet nearby. It is very nice ale.
Marisha: Would you like something to eat?
Matt: "Yes, please."
Marisha: We'll have our staff bring down some food.
Matt: He takes the goblet. He looks at it, smells it, but still holds it at bay as you walk off. You eventually go-- easy enough for you-- take the bed. You have to turn it to the side to take it out, which causes all of the cushions to fall out.
Travis: Aw, shit. (laughter)
Travis: I grab a little pillow with my toes, and I hobble down.
Matt: It takes about 20 minutes and three trips, but you manage to get the bed down there from the guest room.
Travis: Not a problem.
Matt: When you fit it in the cell-- and it's not a large cell; it's maybe ten by ten feet maximum. You place it there. As you guys walk back, you notice as you see Grog walking back down the stairway-- right around the corner as you go down the steps, the hallway goes to the cell, and it turns to the right and to the left to the workshop. You see around the corner a shoulder, listening in. There's a person. And you recognize that it is Percy. Percy has stepped out of the workshop and apparently has been hearing everything this entire time.
Laura: Are you all right?
Matt: "I'm fine." And Percy immediately steps away and you hear the door close with a slam.
Laura: Give him time.
Sam: So moody!
Laura: So yeah, I'm going to lock it. I'm just going to lock your door. To make sure you're safe, make sure nobody can get in.
Matt: "Keep him away from me. Who is that?"
Sam: He's a friend. I know it doesn't seem like it from the condition of your paw, but he's a friend. He's in the same boat as you, trying to stay safe from danger.
Laura: The Briarwoods destroyed his family, as well.
Matt: And you see now, there's like this look of tension on his face that's mixed with tired. And eventually finding the bed and takes the goblet-- still filled, has not drunk from it-- just slips it next to the side of the bed. Eventually food is brought down.
Laura: And a chamber pot, because come on!
Matt: All the basic pleasantries are brought within the cell. He lies on the bed and takes the plate up with him and starts just scarfing some of the bread rolls down. And immediately starts going for the mashed potatoes. You can see a decent meal hasn't been had in quite a while. Especially the journey, what is essentially a seven to eight day journey from Whitestone, probably has not been very kind to him. Eats and then promptly passes out on the bed. Food still mashed on the side of the face. Just goes straight into a slumber.
Travis: Is there any other entrance to the cell area besides the door? No barred windows or anything like that?
Matt: No. It's underground. It's all solid, solid stone walls. And there is the barred front door, and then just goes right into the hallway that goes up the stairs to your left and across the way and around the corner to the workshop.
Travis: You can't cast any kind of alarm system? A trigger?
Laura: So that Percy can't get anything through there?
Marisha: Let me reference my spell tome. It's not a common one. It's situational. But let me check real quick. I haven't read that chapter from my book in a while.
Orion: Is Allura on the way back from the Lyceum?
Matt: No, the Lyceum is in the Erudite District. Allura's tower is in the Cloudtop, which is the central part of Emon.
Laura: I do want to go check out that bird creature at the farmhouse tonight.
Sam: Yes. Well, have we stationed a guard down there?
Travis: We should. We have five or six.
Sam: All right. I'll go talk to Cordell. That's his name, right?
Travis: No, not Cordell. Let's get somebody else.
Laura: Get the crossbow guy that we like so much. The guy that's the captain of the guards.
Sam: Is that Kendrick? Or Shayne? Oh, the girl?
Laura: No, the guy. He's awesome and he's an archer, as well.
Sam: Jarett?
Laura: Jarett. That's it!
Sam: All right, we'll get Jarett. Oh, Jarett?
Matt: You make your way to the back part of the wall, and there is a small tower that's constructed as part of the back wall. That's where Jarett usually keeps watch. Jarett has the in-between shift between the guards, so he can be present for both sides and keep a watch during the afternoon until the nighttime. Probably till about midnight or so. So as you make your way out of the keep, Tiberius, are you heading back to the keep or are you heading toward the Cloudtop District? This will dictate whether or not you show up around this time.
Orion: I'm going to Allura's.
Laura: I'm staying down in the prison, just for the time being. I don't want to leave him alone with Percy.
Matt: You go to find Jarett, who's up at the top of the tower. And as you call to him, Jarett leans over. And you see him, you know, short jet-black hair, darker complexion. Very handsome, younger, early-twenties guy. Well-dressed over his studded leather armor that he wears underneath and has the crossbow on the side. He leans over. "Scanlan, it has been some time. It is so good to hear from you. What can I be of service for?"
Sam: We need you to watch a prisoner for us, downstairs in our jail cell, which we had built and are now using. You'll be guarding the prisoner to make sure he doesn't escape, but also making sure he stays safe. He possesses information that's very valuable to us. And one of the people who hires you might try to kill him, so if Percy tries to go in there, can you stop him without hurting either party?
Matt: "I imagine this would be very well-suited for my skill set. It will be strange to keep watch against one of my employers, but he's been a bit sheepish around me anyway."
Sam: You think you could take Percy?
Matt: "Well, I think I can at least talk some sense into him!"
Travis: I like him!
Sam: Wow! Jarett, you're ballsy! Just out of curiosity, if he was running at you, what would you do? (laughter)
Matt: "Well, first and foremost, I would dive in the forward motion, leg out, to put him off balance. This would be from a frontal melee-- you're messing with me, aren't you?"
Sam: A little bit!
Matt: "Ah, gnomes! Very well."
Sam: Do you need anything to help?
Matt: "I have access to my own private armory, and I have utmost faith."
Sam: All right. Well, keep him safe and there's an extra five gold in it for you?
Laura: Oh! Pathetic!
Sam: I don't know! Ten! Ten gold!
Matt: "Gnomes."
Sam: I don't know how money works. We'll talk to Vex about it.
Matt: "Certainly. All right. I will do this." And he stands up, and goes and starts gathering his general setup supplies inside the guard tower. As you walk back to the keep, you hear him whistle and start calling out to Shayne to go ahead and take over, up in the tower.
Liam: I wasn't there for any of that. I was upstairs on the roof, just thinking.
Matt: Tiberius, you make your way into the Cloudtop District. As you come to the front gates of the district, the guards that normally recognize you and welcome you in, recognize you and stand firm, weapons at the ready.
Orion: At Allura's tower?
Matt: At the Cloudtop District entirely. You guys had to get written permission to enter there when you first came to Emon, anyway, since that's where the nobility and many of the important figures of Emon reside. It appears that since you've been taken out of the Council and you're under investigation, your access to such a sensitive location within Emon has been temporarily revoked, and the guards are not letting you through.
Orion: Is that it? So I just turn around? Go back?
Matt: It's up to you. The guards are just there, standing.
Orion: Greeting and salutations. I'm Tiberius Stormwind from Draconia. Moreover, a member of Vox Machina, over at Greyskull Keep. It seems that you all are posturing and whatnot. (chuckles) It's adorable. But I'm here to see Lady Allura. Could you let her know that I would like to speak to her, or get out of my way so I can just go over there and tell her myself?
Matt: "We have direct orders to not let you or any other member of Vox Machina into the Cloudtop District until your investigation is complete. So no, and no."
Orion: Well, do the second thing. If you don't do one thing, do one of the other things.
Matt: "Your information and wish has been processed, taken into consideration. Thank you very much. Please be on your way."
Orion: Oh, it has been, it has been processed! Oh, that's good to know! I appreciate that. Very well. I cast Fly on myself and I go back to the keep.
Matt: Okay. (whoosh) They both did not expect that exit. You essentially Superman-ed. You're just like (thud). Little cloud of smoke in the shape of a dragonborn left behind. All right. So as you cruise over, you see in the distance, from where you're standing at the top of the keep, you see a distant bead of dark shadow that approaches and grows larger, and it is an air-cruising Tiberius making his way towards the keep.
Liam: I hide behind-- I don't want to get hit, so I'm going to crouch down a little bit, carefully behind one of the pieces of wall. Yeah. Rough landings, sometimes.
Orion: I fly in. Vox Machina!
Liam: Easy. Be careful.
Orion: Sorry. Hi. What are you doing? Are you up here thinking?
Liam: Why, I suppose I was. The others are downstairs interrogating that boy. Where have you been?
Orion: Off doing things that wasn't really that productive, overall, but they don't like me anywhere, especially now.
Liam: Do you want to have a drink?
Orion: Yes, actually, I do.
Liam: I've got a flask. You normally drink water. You want a shot, though?
Orion: Yes, I would love some alcohol. This calls for alcohol.
Liam: I pull out my flask, and I'm amazed, because I've never seen this and I hand it over to him.
Orion: Oh yes. (whoosh)
Sam: Did you eat the flask?
Orion: No, fire breath.
Liam: Do you want to pass that bad boy back? Is it hot?
Matt: It's empty.
Liam: Oh, it's empty! Well, I guess that was worth it.
Orion: (slurred) What? What are you talking about? Don't you tell me how to drink. Oh, you!
Travis: I come out from the castle into the courtyard, and I go, hey! I feel like chicken tonight! Can we go hunt this big bird?
Liam: Tiberius-- I just got him drunk!
Travis: Really?
Orion: (slurred) He gave me a shot of his flask water, and it's so good.
Travis: Are you sure you didn't hit him with the blunt side of your knife again?
Liam: No, no, he took a shot of the old firewater, and I don't know. We might want to slap him a bit--
Orion: (slurred) Allura doesn't like me anymore because I killed that bitch who tried to kill us, and now she's fucking-- nobody likes us!
Liam: Let's find Keyleth.
Travis: Yeah. Smart. Keyleth!
Marisha: What? I was reading. What?
Travis: Tibs got turnt up. Will you fix it?
Marisha: How?
Orion: Vax gave me--
Marisha: What did you do? Why are you touching me?
Orion: Oh, I love protecting you, it is-- and Lockheed is, he loves you, too--
Marisha: Don't touch me right now!
Orion: See, I'm telling you, nobody likes me.
Liam: I gave him his first drinky. I'm sorry. Do you think you could pull him out of it?
Marisha: What?
Liam: I thought he was going to say no! He didn't leave me any.
Orion: It's good. Hi. How are you? I'm Tiberius-- Draconia. You are princess pretty face. He likes you, too.
Liam: Vax walks away, off the roof. Out of here. I'm gone!
Travis: Grog is riveted.
Orion: Human kissy mouth, with you is-- (vomits) (laughter)
Orion: I'm good.
Marisha: If you touch me one more time!
Orion: Oh! Sorry. Did you need to go somewhere?
Marisha: I am doing something else, a request that was already made previously, before "can we fix drunk Tiberius," so I'm a little busy! Why don't you go sleep it off, take a nap, and I will deal with you in a second.
Orion: Is it sleepy time?
Marisha: For you.
Orion: Should I cast Fireball?
Marisha: Oh my god. And I shove him into the cell and put him in bed--
Travis: No, we're not in the prison. We're out in the courtyard.
Marisha: Oh, I thought that you said-- everyone was like, Keyleth!
Laura: I'm still in the prison. Everybody else is out of the prison.
Matt: So where do you push him?
Orion: She pushed me off the roof.
Marisha: No! I thought we were downstairs.
Orion: I fall off the roof. I still have Fly on myself, don't I?
Marisha: You don't fall off the roof. I don't know what I do with him. I let him pass out.
Orion: I'm going to get a sandwich.
Marisha: I let him go get a sandwich.
Sam: I encourage sandwich! (laughter)
Matt: That's the quote of the night. Encouraged to get a sandwich, Tiberius wanders off. What are you doing to prepare what you were doing?
Marisha: I don't know! I got distracted!
Orion: I'm not there.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Well, as the day progresses, what would you guys like to do?
Marisha: Wait. My idea. Okay. We were wanting extra fortification? We were wanting extra protection. Okay? I can't necessarily cast a big spell. I could cast Hallucinatory Terrain. We have a few options; I'm giving them to you all. I can cast Hallucinatory Terrain to make this look like something else. I don't think-- I don't know. I don't know if that's a good idea. I don't know. I could conjure a few woodland beings for, like, extra bears. We could have some bears guarding the palace. I could also throw up a Wall of Thorns, to barrier the cell with the wall of thorns. You're not here?
Sam: I think everyone left. I think it's just you and me up here, and drunk Tiberius.
Marisha: I went downstairs, and I'm saying this to the group so I don't have to repeat myself!
Orion: Oh, so then I turn around with my sandwich and am like, we have to just make Allura talk to us. She can fix everything.
Travis: I grab Tiberius's mouth and I cover it. Please continue.
Sam: Wall of Thorns could be good.
Laura: I like Wall of Thorns.
Marisha: The thing with Wall of Thorns is it's not super big. It's 60 feet.
Sam: That's pretty big!
Laura: Oh. That's not the whole place, though.
Sam: Oh, 60 feet long. I thought you meant high.
Marisha: No, it's 100 feet high. It's really high. Actually, I don't know how high it is. Don't quote me on that. But it's not that long, but we could fortify the doors more. Have bears. We could do multiple things, too.
Liam: I think that the Hallucinatory Terrain wouldn't work. I felt like they could see right through me.
Travis: I think so, too.
Marisha: On the Briarwoods?
Laura: Yeah, they can see through illusions pretty darn well.
Sam: Listen, Percy's here. He can defend for us.
Orion: No, you need a warding spell.
Sam: Why don't we just leave someone behind?
Marisha: Percy's behind.
Travis: Percy's here and so are five? Six? How many employees do we have?
Laura: Our very capable guards.
Travis: Why don't you make some extra bears that don't hate us?
Marisha: Huh?
Travis: Why don't you make some extra bears that don't hate us?
Marisha: All right, I'll make some extra bears.
Orion: Put some little hats on them and make them cute.
Liam: Do you think you could fix him? Because he's a lot of firepower if we're going to go--
Marisha: What gets rid of drunkenness? (laughs)
Laura: Maybe Restoration?
Matt: Restoration would probably take care of it.
Marisha: I don't want to burn a Restoration spell on your drunkenness.
Laura: Can you cast little Restoration?
Matt: You could also just give it a couple of hours. Drink a lot of water.
Travis: What time is it?
Matt: At this point, it's probably close to 3 00 in the afternoon.
Travis: So it's 3 00 in the afternoon. The bird doesn't even come until night. We could let him wear it off.
Marisha: What time is it?
Sam: 3 00. We just established this. We're going to wait until night and go.
Laura: She said she hated you. How did that feel?
Liam: Fine. That was fine. That was the heat of the moment. She was angry. We're a team.
Matt: All right. What's the plan, guys?
Sam: The plan is we're going to let him sober up. We're going to give him some coffee. And then we're going to set off for the north farmlands at dusk.
Orion: Oh, we should get some corn and other harvestments at the farms.
Marisha: I make an army of bears.
Matt: Okay. This concentration will last an hour.
Laura: Oh! That's it.
Matt: The Conjure Woodland Beings?
Marisha: Wait! No! Hang on. What if I conjure a bear, and then-- let me make sure, while they figure their stuff out. See, we're all figuring stuff out?
Laura: What if I leave Trinket in the prison with Jarett?
Travis: Yeah! That won't freak him out at all.
Sam: Well, with Cordell. Jarett's down in the cell. This is defense against invading vampires.
Marisha: Okay! I have a better idea!
Travis: Yep?
Sam: Oh my god.
Marisha: Why don't I conjure an elemental, and then I can cast Planar Binding on him and he'll hang out for 24 hours.
Sam: Great! Do it. Make it done. Let's go kill a bird.
Travis: Lead with that next time.
Marisha: I was figuring it out. It's new.
Sam: You've got to talk it through.
Marisha: Figuring it out.
Travis: That's awesome!
Matt: Yep! That'll do.
Travis: Don't vampires hate fire? Can you do fire?
Laura: Yeah, fire! Fire elemental!
Liam: Running water.
Laura: Ooh, water elemental! (gasps) Tiberius, remember that you--
Travis: He's drunk!
Laura: I know.
Sam: Don't talk to him.
Travis: He won't remember anything.
Orion: (slurred) I love how you shoot arrows at things' eyeballs.
Sam: I use Minor Illusion to create Lockheed, and I have him scamper away.
Orion: Oh, that's you. But where are you going? You go play up there. Tell your brother to be good. Anyway, you're so pretty.
Matt: So are you doing that, Marisha? Keyleth, are you summoning an elemental?
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: Okay. Which kind?
Marisha: Water elemental.
Matt: Okay. And you cast Planar Binding. Part of the material component cost is a gem that's worth at least 1,000 gold pieces.
Travis: I have one of those.
Laura: You do?
Travis: Yeah. It's a jewel that's red and palm-sized.
Laura: I have a diamond of awesome. And a regular diamond, as well.
Liam: If I create a trap here, can you bind some magic to it?
Orion: You can do anything with magic. You can make things go. You can make things stop.
Travis: I cover Tiberius's mouth again.
Laura: I give her a diamond.
Matt: All right. Is this the awesome diamond or the regular diamond?
Laura: This is a regular diamond. The awesome diamond is special.
Matt: All right.
Laura: No! Don't do that!
Marisha: I know! Why do you do that?
Laura: Diamonds are really expensive! Any diamonds!
Marisha: I know! And an awesome diamond has got to be more than 1,000, so this time there's got to be at least 1,000. Grog, what kind of jewel do you have?
Travis: It's a palm-sized ruby.
Marisha: A palm-sized ruby?
Travis: Yeah, I got a big palm!
Marisha: Tiberius.
Sam: No, just don't.
Matt: Vex. Your keen eye is able to ascertain that the palm-sized ruby is worth roughly 1,200 gold pieces and would be suitable for this ritual.
Laura: I think we should use the ruby. Because I have an eye for these things.
Travis: Do we think they're going to come while we do this? Do we want to waste it? Because that's an awesome outside defense. Do we want to waste it for this? What if they're coming? Does it cost one jewel per--
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Maybe we should save that, because that's awesome!
Liam: Is there a possibility, DM, that I could-- if he's sobered up-- if I set a trap, that a spell of his could be bound to it, somehow, and go off? I have no idea.
Matt: It's hard to say. There are certain spells that can enable that. That can take certain spells that trigger at a certain time. Nothing that's particularly in your guys' realm of experience or understanding though, unfortunately.
Liam: All right. So I can look into it for the future, but not today.
Travis: Keyleth, I like that. I think we should keep it in case there is an actual attack coming. Because it might just, 24 hours and then we waste it. Nobody came.
Marisha: That's true. To be fair, the castle's being heavily watched by outsiders, as well.
Sam: Okay! Listen. Let's just go.
Orion: Grog is big. Scanlan's small. Everything is great. Hi.
Liam: Can we leave Trinket? To watch.
Laura: What? He's going to go down in the prison with Jarett.
Matt: Okay. You bring Trinket down. Trinket stands watch right in the center, plops down right up against the bars.
Laura: I knock on Percy's door and say, Percy?
Matt: "Yes?"
Laura: Trinket's out here. If you need anything, you just come out and you pet him.
Matt: "Thank you."
Laura: Welcome.
Orion: I also go up to the door and go, Trinket. (mumbling) Percy.
Laura: Aren't you sober yet?
Orion: No, it's been like five minutes, hasn't it?
Matt: Yeah. Over time, over the next two to three hours or so, you guys have set up a place to go. They have given you some water, and you've managed to sober up a bit.
Liam: I actually picked his pocket and took his bottle of endless water. Don't you have a bottle of water like that?
Matt: No. That is currently left to be blessed for holy water.
Liam: Oh. Oh, well.
Travis: And we take the scenic route to let him walk it off as we head up towards Big Bird's house.
Sam: Great!
Matt: All right. So. You guys make your way around the outskirts of Emon under moonlight. It's a three-quarter waxing moon. You make your way to the farm vicinity on the north side of the city. It doesn't take long for you to eventually suss out the house that matches the description that you were given by the Klauses. You knock on the door, and they eagerly greet your arrival and invite you in. "So glad you all could make it. Have you decided? Have you given our community's request some thought?"
Sam: We're here to help. We're the heroes that you asked for.
Travis: We love old people.
Matt: "Thank you. That's really good of you. We will happily provide you with fresh produce, going forward. We've talked to a few of the members of the community and we're going to make sure that's taken care of."
Sam: Where do you think we should stake out this bird? Where are your livestock kept?
Matt: "The livestock are kept on the eastern side of this community. If you look about, say about half a mile out to where the actual residences stop being clustered together, you'll see there are a number of large livestock containment areas. Hard to miss out there. We have pens for sheep; we have pens for cows; we have pens for horses, other beasts of burden. That whole vicinity is where most of these attacks seem to be coming. So that's probably your best bet there."
Liam: And the biggest you have are the bulls, you said?
Matt: "Bulls. We have a few big cows, as well. We've lost a few of them, unfortunately."
Travis: That'll be all we need.
Laura: Can one of us polymorph into a giant cow?
Sam: Sure.
Marisha: I could also talk to cows again. Maybe these cows will know something.
Travis: We head out to the pasture.
Marisha: First can I ask her, you said your neighbor boy, Kyle?
Sam: Kyle. The neighbor boy. The neighbor boy's son. Yes.
Matt: "That's true. Kyle's the one who originally spotted it, yeah."
Marisha: Where does he live?
Matt: "He's actually the son of the man who runs most of the livestock areas over there. You can go and head over there. He's probably still up, keeping his eye out in case it comes back."
Marisha: Thank you. I go to Kyle.
Matt: Okay. You guys make your way over there. It's easy to find. There's large pens. You can see that for as big as the pens are built and their structure, they are noticeably dwindled. You can see why there's been some worry in the community here. The fact that it's only been two weeks and this many creatures are gone is a little disconcerting. As you get there, you can see the house has its light on. There are glowing windows. And sitting in a chair, holding a crossbow across his lap, you see a 19-year-old boy, rugged chin growth, dirty red hair that's disheveled. And he's sitting there looking around in the sky. Rocking back and forth in his chair as you approach. "Who goes there?"
Sam: Don't worry, we're friends. We're friends of the Klauses. Mr. and Mrs. Klaus.
Matt: "Okay. Okay. So you the ones they say was coming to help?"
Marisha: Yes.
Travis: Aye.
Laura: We hear you have a keen eye, Kyle.
Matt: "I've seen some things, yeah."
Sam: Where have they been attacking lately?
Matt: Points to the whole area in front of him and says, "Are you keeping watch now? Great. Thank you."
Marisha: No! Wait! Don't leave yet. We need you.
Orion: Yes, yes. Keyleth. We are Vox Machina. Over from Greyskull Keep. I'm Tiberius Stormwind.
Marisha: That's irrelevant. The point is, I was wondering if you had any more information about the creature.
Matt: "I mean, other than the fact that it was just a really big bird. Really big. Huge."
Marisha: Do you remember any other details? Any other defining details other than "bird?"
Matt: "It's hard to see in the moonlight."
Sam: When it picks up a cow or whatever it's been picking up, does it strike with the beak or the claws? The talons.
Matt: "Claws, and sometimes it takes two at a time, one in each claw, and just carries them away. "
Orion: Have you seen any of its droppings anywhere?
Matt: "No. "
Travis: Have you managed to hit it with your crossbow?
Matt: "I've missed."
Liam: And you're certain this is a feathered beast, or no?
Matt: "Best I can see. It's dark out here at that time of night and it looks like a bird. It doesn't make any noise and swoops on down and takes them away and flies off in that direction."
Travis: I've heard that those giant birds are attracted to red-headed, 19-year-old, scruffy-chin folk with crossbows.
Matt: Make an intimidation check.
Travis: Awesome.
Matt: This would be with your charisma.
Travis: 22.
Matt: Nice. He goes, "Well, I don't want to be here, then. You guys can keep an eye out. I've got to go." And unloads the bolt in the crossbow, slings it up under his arm--
Sam: Wait! Before you leave. I'm sorry. I have an itch. And it can only be scratched with a cowbell. Do you have a cowbell anywhere around here? I just need a cowbell. Can I borrow a cowbell from you?
Matt: "Your kid's weird." And he keeps walking.
Marisha: Your kid is weird!
Sam: I'm not a child!
Laura: Do I see any cowbells on the ground?
Matt: You can take a glance about. You eventually can see that there is set up on one of the fences that fences in the cows, there is a cowbell, yes.
Laura: Hey, there's a cowbell, Scanlan.
Sam: Great. It will help the ruse. Here's my plan we're all cows. Is that an okay plan?
Laura: I like it!
Marisha: I'm into this plan. But doesn't that essentially make us the bait?
Sam: Yes, we're our own bait. Are you cool with that?
Laura: Should one of us maybe not be a cow?
Marisha: Well, here's the thing, maybe a few of us should not be cows because only a few people are going to have the ability to turn out of being a cow once they are a cow, unless they take damage.
Travis: We went from all cows to pretty much no one is a cow.
Laura: No, Keyleth is definitely a cow. No, I mean-- I didn't-- we didn't mean like that. You're very lovely.
Marisha: It's okay. What Vax said was way worse, earlier.
Travis: How do you come out of being a cow, if you are one?
Sam: I can get rid of it.
Travis: You would do it? Let's do it! When else are we all going to be cows? Come on! Unless it kills them instantly, we'll be fine.
Orion: I'm fine. I go invisible.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I'm going to lay in wait with an arrow. All the rest of you can be cows.
Liam: I think I'm better served waiting to strike.
Sam: You and me, Grog. We're cows!
Liam: If it grabs one of them, I'll deal more damage. If it grabs me, I'll deal no damage. But if it grabs Scanlan cow, I can--
Marisha: Another thing is, I can turn into a cow. I can turn someone else into a cow. Well, Polymorph is a concentration spell.
Sam: I can turn us all into cows.
Marisha: Oh. Because you got that thing.
Travis: Cow or no, Keyleth? Give us your answer.
Marisha: Oh, I'm a cow.
Sam: Seeming.
Orion: Oh, we are not actually cows?
Sam: We'll just seem like cows.
Marisha: Except for me who is going to be an actual cow.
Orion: If it's Polymorph, I couldn't cast stuff. I redact my Invisibility and I'll be a cow. I'm also going to be a cow. I want to be a brown cow.
Marisha: We're all cows! Just embrace it.
Matt: You can't change a target's body type.
Sam: What? No.
Matt: So the same form of your limbs-- you're right.
Sam: You can't change size, but we can all be Grog-sized cows or Scanlan-sized cows.
Matt: It's going to be an array of very strangely sized cows.
Marisha: Scanlan would be like a calf. Big calf.
Sam: What do you think?
Matt: I'll allow it! (cheering and laughter)
Sam: I'll allow it! (cheering and laughter)
Sam: Gather close to me!
Travis: We want to get in the pen first, right?
Sam: Yes, let's go into the pen, and if I may, I'm going to wear the cow bell.
Travis: Sure! You've earned it. (laughter)
Laura: How you going to put it? I'm just going to put it around your neck right now.
Travis: Super loose.
Matt: You guys make your way into the cow pen. The little bit of moonlight that's coming down from the sky illuminates. You see the cows are clustered underneath this overhang that is used for temporary shelter. You hear this distant (mooing) as you approach and make noise. No one's not too upset yet. It's more low muttering.
Travis: What if that was attraction?
Matt: Not yet.
Marisha: If we use Seeming, we just appear to be cows, but we can still speak, right?
Matt: Yeah. Anything sees you as cows--
Marisha: Would be like, holy shit, those are talking cows!
Sam: It's "cow-moo-flage." (groaning)
Sam: Thank you.
Orion: That's good.
Matt: I have to give you experience for that. (laughter)
Liam: Wait. What's going on? Are we turning into cows?
Sam: We just will seem like cows.
Liam: I don't understand magic.
Travis: Just go along. Go along.
Laura: That way we can ambush the bird.
Marisha: We are going to look like cows. Are we going to look like cows to each other, too?
Matt: You'll find out.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: As you all gather around the small gnome, currently adorned with the cowbell around his neck.
Liam: Just like the brothels, eh?
Matt: You complete the spell and with a sudden (whoosh) of cold night air, your vision blurs and you blink for a second. You look around and Vox Machina is now, instead, an array of slightly smaller than average cows. (mooing)
Sam: (barks) Oh, wait. No.
Matt: You're, by the way, more of a calf.
Laura: You are so cute, Scanlan.
Marisha: Okay, shall we go interview some cows?
Laura: Let's go talk to some cows. I want to walk over to the cows with you.
Matt: You guys step up, awkwardly, towards the cows, some of which are sleeping, some of which are noticing and sitting there just chewing.
Marisha: Which one looks like the alpha male?
Laura: The one that's got horns.
Matt: There are no males in this pen, because they are cows.
Orion: I try to speak to the cow.
Matt: Okay. What do you say?
Orion: Hello, I'm Tiberius Stormwind from Draconia.
Matt: You speak Common. You don't know Cow.
Marisha: Tiberius, just because you look like a cow doesn't mean you can talk to the cows. The cows don't understand English. No matter if you look like a cow, they still don't understand Common.
Liam: Boy, if Uriel could see us now. (laughter)
Travis: We are "cow-nsel" worthy.
Marisha: I cast Speak With Animals.
Matt: This is the best Vox Machina adventure ever! All right, you cast Speak With Animals.
Marisha: Yes. Actually, how many animals can I hit with Speak with Animals? It is called Animals, right? Or is it just Speak with Animal?
Matt: I think it affects you. I think it gives you the ability to speak with.
Marisha: Oh, just me the ability?
Orion: You're Dr. Doolittle.
Marisha: Oh, yeah. I think you're right. Okay, so I cast Speak With Animals on myself.
Matt: All right. Yep! On self for ten minutes.
Orion: Make sure the cow-- What? She may know a cow that is over there.
Marisha: Okay, so I go up. Is there a cluster of nice-looking ladies, sitting around?
Matt: All the cows are clustered in this one corner, up against each other for body warmth. And there are few that are just like (moo).
Marisha: Hello, ladies. Good evening.
Matt: (moo) Which is what you guys hear. You hear as a response: "What are you doing? We're trying to sleep."
Marisha: I do apologize to awaken you. I was just curious if you could tell me a little bit about some of the events that have been transpiring around here lately? Mainly, the results of your kind getting killed?
Matt: "My kind?"
Orion: Just ask about the bird!
Marisha: Have you seen a giant bird flying around? Anyone?
Matt: At which point, all the cows start shuddering and say, "Yes. Haven't you? It keeps taking us. Why do you think we're hiding under this?"
Marisha: Oh, sure.
Matt: "Be careful. If you stay out there, it'll see you."
Marisha: Right. Where, exactly? Where have they been-- okay. Damn, cows! It's never--
Sam: Keyleth, what vital information have you learned?
Marisha: I'll get back to you in one second. Can you tell me anything about what it looks like?
Matt: "It's big and has wings. It's fast, and it keeps taking us."
Orion: Ask her where the moon is at night--
Marisha: Does it seem to come at a certain time of the night?
Matt: "The dark time."
Orion: It's a cow. This is the same as before.
Travis: Because nothing is happening I am now trying to eat grass.
Matt: You bend down, and take clusters with your hand, and start eating grass.
Orion: Oh, we are ourselves, still?
Matt: Yeah, you are not actually physically cows. You are still yourselves. You just look like cows.
Sam: I, for once, and it's not weird, I just shit on the floor. (laughter)
Sam: Seems totally normal.
Travis: We are in it, baby!
Laura: I'm just going to notch a bow to my bow, just to keep a lookout to the sky.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: Can I Prestidigitate smells?
Matt: You could.
Orion: Sweet. Go ahead. (laughter)
Sam: All right, so we go out into the field.
Marisha: They're cows. I forgot that talking to cows never goes well.
Laura: Yeah, remember Dork?
Marisha: Didn't seem to know a lot. They're simple-minded beasts.
Laura: Dork the ox.
Marisha: Yeah, poor Dork. Dork the ox.
Matt: Rest in peace, Dork.
Travis: Pour a little out.
Matt: You guys make your way. You wait a while, a good two-hour period, as cows, before eventually you, keeping your eye to the sky with your arrow nocked, see a whisk of shadow across the moonlight.
Laura: (whistles)
Travis: What was that?
Laura: I'm letting you guys fucking know there's a thing in the sky.
Orion: Is it Jumanji time?
Sam: Not quite.
Matt: At this point, you guys look up, and you see something circle once. It looks like a bird. It's just not as big as you were expecting. Looks like a bigger hawk.
Orion: I cast Stoneskin on myself.
Matt: Okay. Bigger and bigger
Liam: My cow is going stealth.
Matt: Roll for cow stealth! (laughter)
Liam: 23.
Matt: Okay. You're still a cow.
Marisha: I make myself look available. I step away from the rest of the herd a little bit.
Travis: I go into a cow rage and start chewing faster.
Matt: You would like to chew! All right.
Laura: I Hunter's Mark it.
Matt: Okay. Well, it has to come within range first.
Laura: As soon as it is.
Matt: As it swoops down, you see this bird just gets larger and larger and you realize it was quite a distance away. And now that it's getting closer, the tales you've heard are true. This is at least a 100-foot wing span, if not more.
Orion: I'm going to fix my ring on it.
Marisha: 100-foot wing span?
Orion: As it gets close I'm going to brace my ring as it's coming towards us.
Matt: Okay. It comes. It dives down with extreme speed and goes into a dive. It comes into range. You cast Hunter's Mark on it. You have your ring ready. What you doing?
Orion: Cast Slow on it!
Matt: Cast Slow? All righty. What is the DC on that?
Orion: 17.
Matt: And what is the save?
Sam: Is it wisdom or charisma or something?
Orion: It's concentration! No, wait, it is a concentration.
Matt: Yes it is. That's okay. I'm finding it. All right, it is wisdom. All right. Oh! What was the DC?
Orion: 17.
Matt: 17. That is an 18. Rolled a natural 18 on that one. As it swoops down, you release the spell, you are immediately attempting to be grasped in its talons. That is a 23 to hit.
Marisha: That hits.
Matt: All right. So you then take 23 points of slashing damage to your cow form.
Laura: I thought we were just--
Matt: Oh. Okay. Sorry. You're not in cow form, are you? You're illusioned. You're staying normal?
Marisha: No, I'm normal.
Matt: You're normal. Right. Okay. I thought you were saying you were doing an actual cow form, but no. All right. You take 23 points of slashing damage, and you are currently grappled as it takes right back up into the air, clutching Keyleth within its talons.
Liam: How fast can the rest of us do anything? It's gone?
Matt: Now you guys can react. It is currently 60 feet away from you.
Laura: I immediately-- oh god! I shoot it.
Sam: Do we have to roll for initiative?
Matt: You do.
Laura: But I was notched already.
Matt: Right. I'll give you advantage on your initiative. Because you're notched but you used your last turn to cast Hunter's Mark on it. Everyone roll initiative. You have advantage on it because you were nocked, and because you were ready to react, you have advantage on your initiative check, but everyone else just roll normally. All right. So that is 25 to 20?
Laura: 21.
Matt: 21.
Matt: 20 to 15?
Liam: 17.
Travis: 18.
Marisha: 16.
Matt: Vax. Keyleth. Scanlan? Tiberius? What you guys got?
Sam: Six.
Orion: Five.
Matt: Okay. All right. So Vex, you're up first.
Laura: I'm going to shoot it through the Blazing Bowstring.
Matt: Okay. Go for it. Roll for the attack.
Laura: 16.
Matt: 16 hits.
Laura: (counts quietly) 26.
Matt: 26 points of damage. All righty.
Laura: And then I'm going to shoot it again.
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: That one definitely hits  26.
Matt: Yeah! That hits.
Laura: 26 again.
Matt: Nice! All right, that brings us to Grog.
Travis: I take the Firebrand Warhammer, activate it, turn on the fire. And I put the Chain of Returning on it and throw it at the winged beast.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll with disadvantage because it's already roughly 40 to 60 feet away from you. It's tough to get there. But you can try.
Travis: 15. Nope. 16.
Matt: Okay. Due to its distance and the dark cover of night, it's harder to hit and you actually swing and throw it and the hammer-- The chain goes taut and it just drops to the ground and it's just out of range of the hammer, as it escapes the range it would have hit it with.
Travis: Can I pull it back?
Matt: Yeah, go for it. That's easy enough, it's not wedged in anything. You don't have to roll for it. All right, so that's your turn. Vax.
Liam: I'd like to use a bonus action to click Boots of Haste together, and I think if I do that, I have two actions at that point, right?
Matt: No. Well you do have an additional action that can be used only to attack.
Liam: Just attack. So what I want to do is click the Boots of Haste together, use the original action to run as far as I can towards the bird, and then use my final action to sneak attack the thing since it's got Keyleth in its talons. That's up to you.
Matt: Okay. The sneak attack will not kick in because Keyleth is not threatening the creature. But you go for the attacks. You rush up, you dash, you get underneath it-- for a moment, because of the Boots of Haste, you keep speed with this giant, darting creature. You, underneath, throw your daggers upward.
Liam: All right. It would just be one-- I mean if I use the dash to run as far as I can, that would leave me with one attack probably?
Matt: One attack and your bonus without the damage bonus.
Liam: I'm trying to be a Boy Scout here. Wouldn't the Boots of Haste clicking be the bonus action? Yeah. That is 22 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: All right. And that's not a whole lot.
Matt: What's the range increment on a dagger?
Liam: That's ten. Ten.
Matt: Ten?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Dagger. Roll again for disadvantage because it's just within your secondary throwing range.
Liam: Oh yeah. Then I missed.
Matt: Okay. It vanishes into the dark night ahead of you. So yeah. That is gone. You still have your Belt of Returning, you just don't have your snake belt. Yeah, don't worry guys. I saw the look on your face and I'm like, no, it's fine. It comes back. Okay. Keyleth, you're up. You're currently grappled and held within the talons of this giant bird. You see the entire ground below you.
Marisha: Judging by the fairly close up appearance I have of him at this point, can I tell it is probably a "beast" nature?
Matt: At the sheer size, it's hard to tell. You've never encountered a beast of this size, but you do look up and you can see the talons that are currently holding you in place and piercing the sides of your armor are bird-like talons. And you do see a series of dark feathers coating the entire underbelly of this entity.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to attempt to cast Dominate Beast.
Matt: Okay. All right.
Marisha: It has to make a wisdom saving throw.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Is your Enhance Ability still active? From before?
Matt: That's for ability checks. So you finish casting the spell. Apparently, this entity is not affected by the spell.
Liam: Fuck-sticks.
Sam: It's not a beast?
Matt: It is not a beast. There's a fine line when certain creatures of nature are altered by some sort of magical essence or their nature perhaps is not natural at the get-go. Either they were created or over time they became something beyond beast. This seems to fall under that category.
Marisha: That's my turn, right?
Matt: That's your turn. That brings us to its turn.
Marisha: Can I try and break the grapple as a bonus action?
Matt: That would be your action to try and break the grapple. For this creature's turn, it does a full double dash of its full flight speed and is about 250 feet away from you and completely out of your guys' reach. You see it (whoosh) up into the sky, disappearing to the north, north-northwest area beyond Emon, carrying Keyleth in its claws.
Liam: Keyleth, just get out of its fucking hands and fall. You can change. We'll catch you; we'll do something! Just fall.
Matt: You're close enough where you can still hear this, as the desperation kicks in and you realize-- seeing your whole party not even visible at this point except a couple of dark dots in the low light of the night.
Sam: Is it our turn yet?
Matt: It now comes to Scanlan's turn.
Sam: Okay. I Dimension Door.
Matt: What's the range on Dimension Door?
Sam: 500 feet.
Matt: You-- and appear where? Where do you want to appear?
Sam: On it. On its back.
Matt: Okay. You appear right on its back. You immediately land and start sliding back as the wind is pushing on you. The feathers themselves, due to the aerodynamic nature of its flight path; it's a lot of wind resistance against you.
Liam: Oh, make an acrobatics check.
Orion: Shush! What the hell?!
Matt: No, I was going there. Don't worry. That's what it is. You need to go ahead and make an acrobatics check to see if you can maintain balance on the back of this beast.
Liam: My intelligence is not six!
Sam: 20!
Matt: You manage to just, you tumble backward a little bit. You grab a couple of feathers and get yourself just on the side underneath where the wing meets part of the upper torso, where the wind resistance is the least amount, and you manage to hold on. You are now clutching the back of this giant bird. That's your turn.
Sam: Okay. As my bonus action, I will inspire Keyleth. Right? She's right next to me?
Marisha: Scanlan? What the shit?
Sam: (singing) The way you kick so much ass like nobody else. The way you do animal things gets me overwhelmed. You don't know. You don't know you're powerful. Oh. That's what makes you powerful.
Matt: Due to the wind, you don't hear the last line. It's too loud around it. However, you can take a d10 inspiration dice.
Laura: Yay!
Marisha: Yay!
Liam: What a heroic move! Amazing!
Matt: Which for the record, this currently right now looks like-- you see the cow clutched below, and currently there is a cow holding onto this giant bird.
Sam: It lasts eight hours.
Matt: This singing tiny cow. You artists out there, have fun with this scene. (laughter)
Matt: All right. That ends your turn. Tiberius.
Orion: Good. I drop Stoneskin. At 5th-level, I go myself, one, two, three-- I cast Fly on all of us. Fly, you fools! And go right after them.
Matt: All right. All of you guys, at that point you see Tiberius and you all take off after him.
Liam: The cows take off into the night sky.
Orion: (shouting) Fly, Vox Machina! Moo!
Marisha: Vox "Moo-china!" (booing)
Matt: A squadron of weirdly-sized, flying cows lit by moonlight, chasing after a giant bird. I love Dungeons and Dragons. (laughter)
Travis: What is this?
Matt: What's the flying speed on Fly?
Orion: 60 feet.
Matt: 60 feet. Cool.
Orion: I'm going to dash. On that.
Matt: Yep. You guys can go 120 feet every turn. It can go 240. Two rounds pass before you guys realize there is no way you're going to catch up with this thing or get even close to it.
Liam: I've got Haste!
Laura: I've got Hunter's Mark on it, so I can track it.
Liam: Double me, yo! I got Haste.
Matt: Your Haste speed-- your physical body doesn't affect the Fly spell, unfortunately. You're only at the speed that the arcane nature of the spell can take you. I'm just saying. Your metabolism's real fast. Your heartbeat's hummingbirding it. But you're still only going 120 feet. So as you guys follow behind, you can see now, after a while on the edge of the shoreline, not too far from Emon-- maybe what would normally be from horseback or a brisk walk, a half day's travel-- you eventually come upon the-- There it is! You come upon the coastal mountains known as the Shoreline Summit. It's a series of unusually steep mountain bluffs that hug the coastline, northwest of Emon. As you get closer, and at this point you've lost sight of the bird. Scanlan, I want you to go ahead and roll an athletics check.
Sam: Athletics? Well, that doesn't count. That's not good. Athletics? 16.
Matt: 16? Okay. You still manage to keep hold for the portion of the length of the journey. As it moves and shifts and the wind itself is still blowing in your face, though minimized by your current positioning. It's a trial to hold onto this large creature as it makes its wings beat and just the sheer force of its movement. All right. So as you get closer to these mountaintops--
Marisha: Do I have a turn yet?
Matt: You can go ahead and take your turn now too, yes.
Marisha: Yeah? I cast Polymorph on it. You're on it.
Sam: Don't worry about me!
Marisha: Really?
Sam: I'm fine! You never need to worry about me. Haven't you guys learned that by now? I'm fine!
Marisha: Out of thematic reasons, I also turn him into a cow. (laughter)
Sam: That's amazing!
Liam: Is what she cries out heroically.
Matt: Okay. What's the DC on this?
Marisha: My spell DC? 18.
Matt: Rolled a one. (laughter)
Sam: I'm a cow on a cow with a cow!
Matt: So this giant flying bird-- Moo! And just begins to plummet at an extremely fast speed. You both immediately are released from its grasp. Scanlan and Keyleth both are just falling. You guys don't see this. It's too far away from you now. At this point, you're probably close to about 500 feet in the air.
Liam: Yo, I heard you liked cows, so I gave you some cows with your cow.
Matt: I hope this inspires the next Diablo Cow level, guys. You really need to look into this. All right. So you guys are now both plummeting and falling at a really, really rapid speed.
Marisha: I go eagle form.
Matt: Flailing cows. You go eagle form. You're fine. So you go into eagle form. That's your action this turn. That's your bonus action, because you can do that as a--
Marisha: As a bonus action!
Matt: Eagle form. Scanlan, you plummet full speed on this one. You probably have another two rounds before you impact with something very painful.
Liam: But he's as heavy as a dust mote, so he just goes like this all the way down. Right?
Marisha: I don't think that's how it works.
Orion: No, he's a little pebble.
Marisha: I can catch him, if you need catched.
Matt: You guys still continue to give chase. Eventually, you see this giant thing just go and vanish from sight. It's just gone. It just disappeared.
Orion: I go full Gandalf.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Never go full Gandalf.
Matt: You guys are pushing forward. So it's now the next round for you guys to react. What are you doing?
Sam: I will become a pterodactyl.
Matt: So you're casting?
Sam: Polymorph on myself?
Matt: Okay. Because you are falling and this is a lot of wind, I'm going to have to ask you to make a concentration check to complete the spell.
Laura: Come on, Scanlan!
Matt: So go ahead and roll a d20.
Sam: This is a concentration not on holding a spell, but on casting it?
Matt: Correct. Because as part of the components of it and maintaining your attention to the spell--
Marisha: What does he add? His spell attack bonus?
Matt: This? No, this is a d20 and-- let me make sure, yeah-- it's a d20 and then you add your plus five from your charisma.
Sam: Charisma? That's a natural 20. (cheering)
Matt: With that-- (screeches) pterodactyl.
Liam: Tables have turned, motherfucker! Tables have turned!
Orion: You're both flying cows!
Laura: Wait! Was Seeming a concentration?
Orion: I think it lasts for like eight hours.
Laura: Did it drop? Are we no longer cows?
Sam: I think so. I'll check.
Liam: Hey! You're not a cow anymore!
Laura: Oh my god, you're not a cow anymore!
Liam: Oh! Awesome!
Matt: You guys keep flying. You guys catch yourselves.
Sam: Nope, not concentration. It just lasts for eight hours.
Matt: You guys are all still flying cows. You're all still just a squadron of flying, illusory cows, which you guys are both now transformed into an eagle and a pterodactyl, but you still look like cows. (laughter)
Liam: As the twins are flying, I say, hey, did you notice we have the same pattern? Twins!
Matt: About this time, you hear a loud, impactful boom. And there's a cloud of dust partway into the side of this first bit of mountain range that you come upon, a little bit distant from you guys.
Laura: Can I fly down towards it?
Matt: You start heading in that direction. Because of the speed it was traveling at and the way it was carrying at the speed it was going, it's still ahead of you guys. And you see the impact. You hear this loud screeching sound and you see now where there was a little poof of cloud, these wings unfold and (flapping) make its way back up.
Orion: How far away from it are we?
Matt: You guys right now at the close to six minutes you've been traveling--
Marisha: Did it not drop the cow to 0 hit points?
Matt: All the damage carries over.
Liam: The remainder of that damage went into its hit points.
Matt: You don't know. It looks hurt. It looks like it wasn't happy about it. It continues back up. From you Tiberius, it's probably close to 700 to 800 feet away from you. It's because of the speed it was traveling and the speed you guys were following. It was gaining on you every single turn.
Laura: Is it flying away from us now?
Matt: It's heading up into the mountain range.
Liam: Fly after that motherfucker!
Laura: Should we still track it? It's still nighttime, right?
Matt: It's still nighttime, yeah.
Orion: It's only 500 feet away from me right now?
Matt: 600 to 500 feet.
Orion: Okay, cool. Well I'm going for it, still.
Matt: What are you doing?
Laura: We're all following it.
Orion: Where am I? It's taking off right now and I'm over here?
Matt: You're back here. It's now starting to take off and head up towards the top of this mountain range that you're just starting to come upon.
Orion: Okay. If it's doing that, then I'll fucking go higher and try to meet it where it's going.
Matt: Okay. Cool. The rest of you guys continue to give chase. Now that it's returned to its form, it travels an additional double dash: 240 feet. As this progresses, it's far beyond any of you guys in a matter of seconds.
Laura: Is the mountain range really far away?
Matt: No, you've just hit the outskirts of the mountain range. It got there first. You guys just catch up to where it starts and you see it's like now it's dodging through the mountains and is currently no longer in sight. There is a little bit of low cloud cover in this area. A couple drift by and cover a couple of the mountains. But this little cluster of seaside cliffs and mountains, as you get closer, you can see it's dotted with high altitude trees. There's precariously perched goats that are sleeping on elements of the sides of this mountain.
Liam: Can you track it?
Laura: I can track it! Of course.
Matt: So you're keeping your attention on it?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: The winds also are pretty strong as you get close to the mountains. As you coast around each, you start actually diving into this middle valley area.
Laura: I'm going to cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Does that affect any spells?
Laura: No, it just makes us stealth easier.
Sam: It doesn't drop Hunter's Mark?
Matt: Is it concentration?
Laura: No, it's not concentration; it's an action. Oh wait. (laughs) I don't know if I can tell.
Matt: Is Pass Without a Trace concentration?
Laura: Where does it say it?
Sam: There's a C next to it somewhere.
Laura: Oh, never mind! It's a concentration. Forget it! I don't know how these things work yet.
Sam: Yeah, stick to the bows and arrows.
Matt: Traveling through this area, you can see the mountains. The way that they're constructed in this area, it's not a gradual crag. A lot of these are just punched up in the air, like whatever heavy seismic force that created these initially was very localized and very powerful. A lot of the mountains are spire-like. They come up with very sheer sides and you can see why this mountain range is largely not utilized or traversed or generally spoken of often because it's too dangerous for most average folk to even attempt to climb or use for any good reason. The winds are high and powerful here at the tops, as well. And as you're flying around, the winds blowing across, and you get pushed off your course a little bit here and there, but you still keep up, best as possible. You leading the charge. Over about five minutes of searching through this mountain range, you sense that its movement eventually comes to stop.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: There's a nest.
Sam: Wait, you sense that he came to a stop?
Laura: He came to a stop a little bit ahead of us.
Sam: Let's go get him.
Laura: Can we all try to stealth in?
Sam: I'm a pterodactyl, so--
Marisha: Yeah, let's go for the element of surprise. Well, technically, we're all still cows.
Matt: Yes. And you guys cannot talk because you're actually in creature forms.
Laura: All right. Well, I'm going to try to stealth. Mountains are my favored terrain!
Matt: They are! Do you want to go onto the mountain itself, or are you still flying amongst them?
Laura: Oh, I'll still fly.
Matt: So you would not get the advantage because air is not your favored terrain. So everyone who wishes to, go ahead and roll stealth checks
Marisha: All of us?
Matt: All of you who wish to try and come at it from a quiet--
Sam: (pterodactyl screech)
Matt: What did you roll?
Liam: With advantage, I rolled a two.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I'm not used to being flying, really.
Sam: Five.
Orion: Are we flying anymore?
Matt: You guys are all still flying, yeah.
Orion: Oh, shit. Okay. Oh, no.
Marisha: 21.
Travis: 14.
Laura: 28.
Matt: Yeah, so. You guys following behind Vex, many of you clumsily and some of you shouting out to each other, "I think she sees it this way." And you're like, "oh my god." You come around this one bend and you can see one of the larger mountainous spires that has a lot of trees and green growth towards the top at certain places where the rock juts out and gives a shelf for such greenery to grow, outside of its sheer outside surface. You do see a couple of wings fold in against the moonlight in what looks to be an outcropping. And there are multiple layers of rock shelves on the side of this mountain. And on one of these outcroppings, there appears to be some sort of a nest: a cluster of almost like actual trees and pieces of wood that are all jammed into this giant nest that's nestled against where the shadow and the moonlight are fighting for some sort of visual on it.
Travis: Big-ass tree fortress.
Laura: Did we just find like a mama bird and baby birds?
Marisha: Yeah, we did.
Laura: What are we going to do?
Liam: We're going to take out the mom and train the babies.
Sam: What are we going to do?
Liam: Yeah. We're going to capture those babies and we're going to train them.
Orion: That's a good idea. I like that idea.
Sam: Like Avatar?
Orion: Yes.
Travis: You could go in.
Laura: Me go in? There's a giant fucking nest here! I get close to it. As close as I feel safe getting to it.
Matt: You guys all stay back or do you go with her?
Orion: I'm going to cast Greater Invisibility on myself and then follow.
Matt: Okay. You guys have 12 seconds before you all plummet.
Orion: Oh wait! No! I don't do that. Damn it! I forget we're still flying.
Travis: What part of the flying part did you forget?
Orion: I thought we'd landed already.
Matt: Are you guys all going with Vex, or are you all staying back and she's going on her own?
Travis: Are we going to lose Fly, or do we keep it?
Matt: Are you casting Greater Invisibility?
Orion: No.
Matt: Then no, you're fine.
Liam: Is it the same stealth roll or an additional stealth roll to go forward at this point?
Matt: No this was your stealth roll on approaching.
Liam: Oh. Well, I mean, I knew I rolled shitty.
Matt: You don't know you rolled shitty.
Travis: I'm going in.
Matt: All right. So Vex and Grog, you approach. Gliding cows, drifting through the night sky.
Laura: This is so stupid.
Travis: Hoof in hoof.
Matt: Okay, yeah. So you guys all realize you must keep close together to Tiberius as you come in. Keeping too much of a distance would be a bad thing. You come upon the underneath portion of this outcropping, and you can see within a quick glance-- go ahead and make a perception check, all of you guys.
Marisha: All of us?
Matt: All of you who are coming up in this cluster.
Travis: Three.
Laura: Do I get an advantage because we're in a mountain environment at all?
Matt: Nope. Actually no. Because you're seeing things on a mountain, I will give you advantage on this.
Laura: Yes!
Marisha: 12.
Matt: 12?
Orion: 16.
Sam: Nothing.
Liam: 13.
Laura: 12.
Matt: So the highest was?
Orion: 16.
Matt: 16. You got?
Travis: Three.
Matt: As you guys all look up, it's very shadowy over here. It's hard to see. The moonlight's in your eye a little bit and the darkness is so pitch. The umbra of this particular shadow is very dark and crushed. You make out, in the nest, the large bird creature has folded its wings and is currently leaning down. And you see something in the nest that's much smaller moving up next to it.
Marisha: I don't want to kill a mama.
Laura: But she's killing the farmers' stuff.
Marisha: Maybe we can transplant her.
Sam: To a wildlife preserve?
Laura: Maybe. And her babies?
Marisha: Capture her and move her away from town?
Liam: That seems complicated.
Sam: Are they on the highest peak?
Matt: No. There's two other levels up above this. This one just is one of the largest outcroppings.
Sam: I'm going to swoop up over them. See if there's any boulders to drop.
Matt: Okay. Looking over it, there are no loose rocks or boulders. In fact, because of the construction of these mountains, they're solid spires that jut up and then abruptly end. All the erosion that happens here appears to be gradual enough-- that's why the sides of the mountains are so smooth and unclimbable.
Marisha: So there's a sheer peak and they're nested on the side of it?
Matt: Yeah. It's a sheer peak that rounds off at the very top and there are little outcroppings that jut out in places as it goes down. But those are more towards the top, and as you go down further-- as most of the erosion hits the mountain lower and lower, it has carved off or destroyed most of what would have been previous outcroppings, or smoothed them over.
Travis: How far away are we now?
Matt: You guys are probably a good 60 or 50 feet if you're trying to get up within range of your Fly. Right? What's the range of on that? Fly?
Sam: Fly? Oh, here.
Matt: I got it. No! There is no range on it. You just touch them. So you're fine. Yeah. As long as you're concentrating on it, you're fine.
Travis: So we're within 60 feet?
Matt: Well, you guys have been keeping a little more of a distance down here. However, at this point, as you guys are all encroaching and Scanlan's gone overhead, a voice rings out against the darkness, "Flying cows? Really? I care not for this insolence. If you've come to mock me or fight me, do it now! Or leave this creature alone!"
Laura: What? Where are you? Who are you? Who said that?
Orion: I rolled an arcana check of 17 of my surroundings-- where it's coming from.
Laura: Ditto. I try to perceive where it's coming from.
Matt: Okay. Arcana check-- there's nothing arcane in nature. It's not omnipresent or coming from any certain place. There is a direction it's coming from, which is from the outcropping or nest area. There's nothing arcane in nature to it. It's in the shadow. You can't really see it from this distance.
Laura: Is it in front of us? To the side of us? Is it coming from where the bird seems to be?
Matt: It's coming from where the bird is.
Liam: He's controlling it.
Marisha: I fly over as an eagle.
Laura: You still look like a cow eagle.
Marisha: Can we drop Seeming?
Matt: It's not under your control, and you can't talk, too.
Travis: Okay. I yell out, you've been stealing the farmers' livestock. Give us a reason not to kill you.
Sam: That's good. That's good. Diplomacy.
Orion: Or, I mean, moo!
Matt: Okay. You guys are all keeping distance from it? The voice comes out again, "Your nature confuses me and your words seem ill-informed. If you're not going to come to speak of discourse, I'm going to assume that that you're my enemy."
Orion: Then, as he's saying that, I'll approach.
Matt: So Tiberius cow goes.
Orion: And as I approach the thing, I'm going to Dispel Magic on myself.
Matt: Okay. Cool. For Dispel Magic, I need you to go ahead, just for the sake of this-- I won't consider it contested because you're allies in this thing. So you land. Tiberius' form shimmers and returns back to that of a dragonborn, and you're standing there on the precipice. Go ahead and roll a perception check.
Orion: What is that? 11.
Matt: Okay. It's hard to make out the details, but the voice is definitely coming from the nest. You see there is something vaguely humanoid, but it's hard to make out the shape at this distance with this low light, especially since you aren't a darkvision-gifted entity. However, it's close to this bird creature.
Orion: I'm going to say, is this big bird thing asleep?
Matt: "You will not harm this creature, poachers!"
Orion: I'm not trying to harm it at all. I'm just seeing if it's fine. If we could talk. I can't see anything, and I wanted to cast Light so I could see something, but I don't want to hurt your bird's eyes.
Matt: You can see the bird's moving and it's looking towards your direction. And it has this like (soft snarl).
Orion: So it's awake?
Matt: It's awake, and it looks hurt. The voice is like, "You come here masqueraded as whatever manner of beasts that you are--"
Orion: Cows. We were cows.
Matt: "After tormenting and severely wounding this beautiful creature."
Orion: We didn't do anything to the creature. No, we were-- This creature was stealing the farmer's cows, and the farmers were saying, "You've taken our livestock," which is hurting the farm. We came to help them and we posed as cows, and then your bird took our--
Liam: While he's blithering, can I make an additional cow stealth check?
Matt: To?
Liam: To come up behind the guy. Near him. Not even near him. Just to get a better vantage point.
Matt: Go for it. Make it with a disadvantage.
Liam: Does that cancel out with my advantage from my cloak?
Laura: A cow in a cloak.
Matt: You are a flying cow in the moonlight against an individual that is very aware of your presence.
Liam: Shut up, baby, I know it. (laughter)
Liam: That is good.
Laura: That's 31.
Liam: Yeah. 31.
Matt: (chuckles) You stealthily cow your way up to the side of this precipice. Seemingly unnoticed. Getting a view of this creature now, you can see this nest is a cluster of driftwood and chunks of shipwreck and carts and wagon wheels and whatever pieces of wood have been scavenged from different time periods. Some are weathered, some are more fresh. And trees, whole trees that are broken and shredded have all been cobbled together to make this nest. In the center of this-- I'm going to take the intensity down on this a little bit-- you see, there up against this bird-- and the bird itself is twitching and looks like it's hurt. Not deeply hurt, but hurt. You see a small humanoid. Pretty small. Scanlan small. Hard to make out details, but it is currently in the process of doing a repeated hand motion and then touching. A hand motion and then touching. And you've seen this motion before.
Liam: Touching what?
Matt: Touching the bird. There is a perpetual string of Cure Wounds being applied to this bird.
Marisha: I also approach and come out of my eagle form.
Orion: Light.
Sam: Are you landing somewhere?
Marisha: Next to Tiberius.
Orion: But I'm going to block it with my hand so it's not going to blind the bird.
Matt: Okay.  As the light picks up, you can see the bird turns away for a second and starts to like flap its wings instinctually. And once again, seeing it up close, this bird is really big. The humanoid entity becomes immediately visible. And it is a gnome. You can see, he's dressed in hides and roughly crafted leather and furs. He has tousled, greasy black hair that hangs past his shoulders, covering a bedraggled and bearded face. Holding up his arm-- and looks thin. It's covering the light and he's like, "You!"
Orion: Sorry. I tried to not blind you. It was very dark. I'm sorry. Hello. We mean you no harm.
Matt: The gnome slams this small wooden, for lack of a better term, a small staff or cane. Slams it into the ground with a foot stomp and you can see the gnome's entire body suddenly begin to shift and change into this dark, gnarled-looking, hard surface.
Liam: I whack him in the back of the head.
Laura: No! It's just Barkskin! It's just defense!
Matt: He doesn't know. All right. So you cow stealth up to the side of this guy.
Liam: Let's get ready to rumble.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and make an attack.
Liam: I pause.
Matt: You pause? You are currently now crouched right behind the edge of this nest, and you can't even actually see the guy anymore because in order to get up there, you've come underneath to stay hidden and you're just there behind.
Marisha: Can I see Vax?
Matt: No. Well, actually go ahead and roll a perception check. Is it higher than a 31?
Marisha: Is it higher than a 31? No.
Matt: You have no idea where Vax is.
Sam: I'm way up above them still, right? Do I see anything?
Matt: No, actually. You see, there's another section above there. It looks like there's nothing else of interest, other than some growth, a few bushes, and some vines that hang down the side.
Travis: Somebody talk to him before I kill this fucking bird.
Orion: I am talking to him.
Marisha: I land beside Tiberius and come out of eagle form. Tiberius, would you please Dispel this cow form from me. Please? Thank you.
Matt: Okay. And with that, you cast Dispel Magic and Keyleth's form reverts that to Keyleth. Normal Keyleth. Non-cow Keyleth. The gnome character now has the staff at the back and has a hand in front and is like, (panting).
Marisha: Are you a druid? I'm also a druid. I think our goals might be aligned.
Matt: "Really?"
Marisha: It's okay. What's her name?
Matt: "This creature has no name to it yet. I, myself, am a protector of the wild, as you claim to be, as well. I have no tribe but the trees around me. I hear the whisper of the wind, and it calls for justice."
Marisha: I can relate to that.
Matt: "Then why do you follow? Why do you insist on harming this creature?"
Marisha: Because we were seeking justice for other people.
Matt: "Why? For the civilized folk of the city? You should know more than most. They sit there, taking beautiful creatures of nature, making them fat and formless and worth nothing. To slaughter them without life and purpose to their existence."
Orion: The life and purpose of their existence is to keep those other people alive.
Matt: "And why is it not the same with this creature? If they cannot guard their livestock, why is it not food for this thing, as well? It is the natural life cycle that they've removed themselves from."
Orion: When one has an establishment, when one grows its own crop, and one steals something, it is considered a crime.
Matt: "Well, when one is not part of that civilization, but the civilization of the world as a whole, which requires hunting for what keeps you alive, perhaps that does not sink or hang on my conscience."
Orion: Fair point.
Marisha: Let's not let this escalate. Okay? What is your name?
Matt: "I was once called Byron."
Marisha: Vyron?
Matt: "Byron."
Marisha: Byron.
Matt: "I have not heard my name nor spoken words for many years."
Orion: Would you not like to be called Byron, or would you like something else, like B-roy or B-man? My name's Tiberius Stormwind from Draconia. And this is my friend Keyleth, who is also a druid. And we also have a friend who is a gnome who sings songs and whatnot.
Matt: The bird, now looking of much better health than it was when it arrived, now flutters its wings out in a stretching motion. And as it does, its head glides down and looks right towards you. This giant beak that looks like it could snap you in two with a single bite.
Marisha: I reach up to it and reach out to pet its beak.
Matt: I'm going to ask you to make an animal handling check on this. Just to see where this goes.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: I gently start swooping down to check on my friends.
Marisha: 19.
Matt: All right. The large bird-type creature retracts from your attempted touch and begins to rear back into the nest in a defensive position. Doesn't bite your hand off.
Marisha: I kneel down a bit. Produce a few Goodberries. Reach out.
Sam: Bye, Keyleth. This is how we lose one of our members. Feeding a bird.
Matt: The creature leans forward and the giant bird, you can see its dark, black eyes staring at you. Each eye probably about the size of your torso. As the giant beak comes down, you can see the moonlight gliding off the smooth exterior of the dark black beak. It smells. And you take 27 points of piercing damage as the animal takes the Goodberries and almost your entire hand with it, as well. At that size, it's hard to be gentle.
Marisha: It's okay. It's all right.
Matt: So you retract your hand, which is now essentially in many ways, bones are broken, feels like. There's blood streaming down the side of your hand, and (dripping).
Marisha: That's a good girl.
Sam: Is it?
Matt: Swallows.
Sam: Is it a good girl?
Orion: I'm feeding a tiny snack to Lockheed.
Marisha: I turn back to Byron--
Sam: And say, ow.
Marisha: Yeah, and go, that hurt. Now. Please listen to me. Please, please listen to me. We did come here to kill the giant creature.
Matt: "I had assumed."
Marisha: But upon seeing the situation, upon approach, realized the situation and decided amongst all of us that we did not want to bring such a great creature to its death.
Matt: Scanlan, you've landed by now. A pterodactyl. A cow-looking pterodactyl.
Orion: As he swoops, I've never seen anything quite like it.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Orion: I'm going to aid her, too.
Sam: All I've seen so far is Keyleth's bloody hand.
Marisha: 20 total.
Matt: You have advantage on this because Tiberius is aiding you on this conversation.
Marisha: I'll take that 20 total.
Matt: All right. He looks at you. "Well, shall you leave us, then?"
Marisha: Under one condition.
Matt: "There's always a condition. You call yourself a druid, yet you speak like the civilized folk. I get the feeling that perhaps your connection to nature has not been tended to for some time."
Orion: No, she really knows her stuff. I mean, we just fought this fire guy--
Marisha: Just because one can appreciate nature, does not mean that one cannot also appreciate humanity.
Matt: "Well, this beautiful creature is the only surviving young of a clutch, bred by a majestic roc high in the Cliffkeep Mountains. Its mother now lies dead, slain by the brutal giants that wander those peaks. This young'un is all that remains of that clutch and the memory of that blessed entity."
Travis: That's a young'un?
Matt: This is a young one. "This new home serves us well. Abundance of feed. Lack of large, predatory creatures. I believe this is where we'll stay."
Marisha: Question. If this is a young, adolescent creature, what do you think of the destruction it could cause once it reaches full adulthood? Are you okay with having that on your conscience? This creature could result in the lives of many. If you relocate out of town, just a few miles. Say like 50 or 100 or so because this thing's really damn big. So I'm sure it's got a pretty big-- you know what I mean.
Orion: Or just the other way.
Marisha: I will help you. I will personally come with you and tend to their safety. And make sure that their location is proper and safe, and handled with respect. Then you will be out of the harms of poachers. You can live off the land, and you can be free and alone.
Matt: "Do you think we came straight to this mountain range? Do you think this is the first nest we've constructed? Me and this lone survivor have scoured the length of this side of Tal'Dorei. This, as far as I can see, is the safest. It's the most ignored by nearby civilization."
Marisha: Listen--
Sam: I'm going to drop Seeming and also drop my form of pterodactyl.
Matt: All of you now, your forms change. As this happens mid-sentence, it's noticed immediately by the gnome druid, who's like (gasps).
Marisha: Yes! That is correct. Listen. We are being nice. Don't think that we will be the first. You will have more people come and hunt you and kill this, as this beast continues. How long do you think you can survive waves of mercenaries coming to try and kill this? We are the nice ones. I suggest you heed our warning, take our help, and save the life of you and your creature in the long run.
Matt: "You have yet to provide a suitable alternative."
Orion: Oh! I might have an idea.
Marisha: There is an alternative. Tiberius can tell you of that alternative.
Orion: Yes! See, your creature is rather large and powerful, yes? You have a rather strong bond with him, which is quite unique with such a unique looking creature.
Marisha: I was setting you up for an awesome one-liner, man! You were supposed to be like, the other option is death.
Liam: Ask him if he's considered Whitestone?
Orion: Whitestone? Yeah! Well, I guess there's a couple of options, really. There's this town Whitestone that's pretty great and has a lot of livestock that this creature can consume.
Marisha: Yeah, I don't know about that.
Matt: Go ahead and make a deception check.
Orion: That is a 24.
Matt: "Whitestone. How far is this Whitestone?"
Marisha: Wait! No! Hang on! No! This is getting out of control already. I will not let you all do this! No! Not today. You guys have caused enough problems. We are not going to push this creature on other people. I'm trying, all right? I'm working on it. I don't want to push this problem off on a town that's already being held hostage by vampires. That fucking sucks! That's double shitting on them.
Orion: Well, the other option was, like I was saying, perhaps you can form an agreement with Emon. I'm sure it would pay in livestock rather well for the protection of you, such a powerful druid, over at least a section of the land. In exchange for free food for your friend.
Matt: "You, dragon man, are adorably naive of the ways of men and those that lie and deceive. I have yet to have met any civilized people who have kept their word when it came to creatures like this."
Laura: Can I come forward? All right. What about Vasselheim? Not in the city, but outside of it. There's plentiful forests, tons of giant creatures it could feed on.
Orion: That's right! That's true!
Marisha: That actually is fairly true.
Laura: There's so many monsters out there, they don't hunt them all because there's too many.
Orion: That's a wonderful idea, Vex. Yes!
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Orion: I'll aid her, as well.
Matt: I'll say you've aided one person recently. This'll just be her check on this. He really doesn't trust you, given the current circumstances.
Laura: 21.
Matt: Natural 20.
Laura: Then as a natural 20, you know that's good for you. That's the best place you can go. You can see the wisdom in my persuasion.
Orion: It is true, though. I mean, it's just feed walking all around for it.
Marisha: Please, please listen to us. We're only trying to help.
Sam: Is there a young creature around here besides the--
Matt: No, looking about you, no.
Sam: There's no babies there?
Matt: No. This is the young. This bird is like the adolescent.
Marisha: Please believe me. I let this thing almost take my hand off, and I'm still standing here fairly cogently talking to you, so please take that as a sign of honesty.
Laura: I go and put my hand on her back and cast Cure Wounds, because I got that spell now, yo!
Sam: Where are we telling them to go?
Travis: To Vasselheim.
Sam: Vasselheim?
Marisha: Listen. She's right. We have friends in Vasselheim. We can contact the Slayer's Take. We're a part of their guild. We can tell them that you're coming. They'll not bother you. We can tell them they are not allowed to take out a contract on your creature. You will not be harmed.
Laura: Don't bring up contracts, Keyleth. Maybe just don't even bring it up.
Marisha: Because they don't have mercenaries out there. It has to be approved! So it's really good.
Matt: "And what's to stop them from hunting down a majestic creature as rare as this one?"
Orion: Us!
Matt: "You, who live here in Emon?"
Orion: Yes. No, us who are members of the guild.
Matt: "So you also are monster slayers, who come here under the guise to slay this monster?"
Orion: No! Not here. Other places that we're forced to do it. But still we're members.
Matt: "It's too much talk."
Travis: Can we kill this thing now? You guys are doing awesome.
Marisha: I feel like I've done pretty damn good! Come on, man!
Sam: I start speaking in Gnome to him. Listen. Earlier, you said that this place was perfect. It was safe. There were no large predators. Well, you're looking at six large predators. We'll keep hunting you down and hunting your beast down until you get out of here. This is your one and only warning. You must leave, and you must leave now. We're giving you a good choice, a safe choice. We can help you get there and be safe there. But if you don't listen to us, we'll start killing.
Matt: Make a persuasion roll.
Marisha: How many fucking persuasion rolls does this asshole need?
Sam: Persuasion?
Matt: This is essentially a conversational skill challenge. So every success and failure leads towards where the conversation's going to end.
Sam: 32.
Matt: He gives you a look. Very intense, looking into your very essence-type stare. His little beady gnomish eyes meeting yours. (sighs) "If we're going to make this journey to where you say this Vasselheim is, how far is it?"
Sam: Several days' journey.
Laura: It's just across the water. You could fly no problem over it.
Matt: "Across the sea?"
Travis: It's across the sea.
Sam: We can draw you a map. We can give you provisions. We'll even make sure the farmers provide you with a few pieces of livestock to chow down on before the journey. A parting gift to fuel up before the big ride. We can give you papers to hand to the Slayer's Take that will ensure that you'll be treated fairly.
Orion: I'll take out my Scroll of Telescription and start writing a note.
Matt: He looks back towards Keyleth, looks back at Scanlan, looks back at Keyleth, looks up at the bird.
Marisha: Please. We really don't need another death on our conscience today.
Matt: "Then looks like we don't have much of a choice, do we? If you can assure us enough food to get across on this journey, we'll make our way towards this Vasselheim. I pray on the solidarity between our kin, and our kin, that you speak the truth that resonates this moment. Because if it does not, may the fall of this entity and myself weigh on your conscience."
Orion: I flip over the note that I'm writing to him and then I trigger it (flying noise) as he's reading it.
Matt: All right. It (poof) vanishes. "As the sun rises, two sizable pieces of livestock to be placed at the boundaries of the usual hunting site. If those are there, and it is taken without any sort of aggression, we'll take that as a sign that you are being honest, and we shan't bother you or your people any further."
Sam: I bow deeply and when I do, it goes (cowbell ringing).
Matt: For a moment, you think you hear a slight, uncontrollable chuckle from the gnome.
Orion: As that's going on, because we're going to head back right now to seal this up, right? Then I'll do my Teleportation Circle. Which is closer to the northeast: the Lyceum or the Keep?
Matt: To the north side of it? That would be the Lyceum.
Laura: We could fly back pretty fast. Couldn't we?
Matt: If he has another Fly spell, you could take it right back.
Laura: Yeah, we can just fly back.
Marisha: Before he leaves. Well, wait! We've got to go to the farm.
Sam: We've got to go to the farmers. We've got to buy some cows off them.
Marisha: And I tell him, if you're up that way, there's a druidic tribe, a little village called Pyrah. They're Fire Ashari. You can find their headmaster Cerkonos. He's a friend. You might find your people there. Who knows? Maybe friends will do you good.
Matt: "Ashari, you say? My dealings with them have been mixed. Perhaps I'll keep my distance."
Laura: Can I see if there's any feathers dropped from the giant bird creature?
Matt: There are ample around.
Laura: Can I grab a few of them?
Matt: As you go and reach up, slaps you across the knuckles.
Laura: Can I have a feather that he dropped?
Matt: "Why?"
Laura: Because they're beautiful. You have to admit they're beautiful.
Matt: (sighs) "Elves. All right."
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: You take three roc feathers.
Travis: They're huge, right?
Matt: Yeah. They're almost boat size.
Orion: I put one in my Bag of Holding, too.
Matt: You guys manage to get one for you and three for you guys before he's like, "Now go! Now! My patience wears thin. I'm through with talking words." (sighs)
Sam: Sorry.
Liam: I walk out from behind him and just walk past.
Matt: (yelps)
Sam: (laughs) Sorry about that.
Orion: All right. I'll burn another 5th-level and then fly us all out.
Matt: Okay. You guys coast back to the north side of Emon. You go to the door where the Klaus family is, and you speak with them for a while. You manage to convince them of the situation and what seems to be a mutually positive circumstance. They agree it's better to lose two cows than continue this.
Laura: I pay them for their two cows. Being nice, man!
Matt: How much do you give them?
Laura: How much are cows usually worth?
Matt: You've never purchased a cow, so you don't know.
Laura: Yes I have! I purchased Dork the ox.
Matt: An ox is not a cow.
Laura: Shit! How much do your cows normally cost, darling?
Matt: This is a good question. Let me look in the book. I've not had to look up the cost of a cow before. I would put it at about maybe 40 gold each.
Laura: That's way more than I expected.
Matt: Because they can be used for meat, they can be used for milk.
Laura: 40 gold each to make up for the loss of your cows.
Matt: "Thank you so much. I greatly appreciate you helping with this. And you promise, this will--"
Sam: Yes, just put them out in the open field.
Travis: We'll take them.
Sam: Oh, we'll take them?
Travis: We'll put them out there. Stake them.
Sam: Okay, we'll take care of it.
Matt: You guys take two of the cows. You bring them to the outskirts. With rope tied around their neck, you essentially hitching-post them to the outside of this open area, about 20 to 30 feet from the actual holding pen. A few hours go by, and the sun slowly begins to rise.
Laura: Along with some other food, right?
Matt: Place some of their feed and things around there. Eventually, the sun begins to rise across the eastern sky. As it crests, you can see some of the farmers come out, anxiously watching from their homes. You see different families gathering. The wings beating in the air, and it swoops down (swoosh) and grabs two of them. You can see some of the families gasp and rush inside, and some are amazed to see this even happen. It takes the two, carries them up, and heads out over the Ozmit Sea, passing to the northwest side, and over the next 30 or so minutes, slowly disappears over the horizon until it's no longer visible.
Travis: The sun rose, right? Can I make a beard check? (laughter)
Matt: You may.
Travis: Two, zero.
Matt: With that, (creak) the beginnings of the other side of your beard slowly begins to set in.
Travis: What happens to the existing side?
Matt: The existing side has rounded itself off to a nice beard. It's pretty much where it's going to be on that side. The other side is now starting to finally catch up. And that's where we'll end: on a successful beard check.
Sam: Wow. That was a crazy night.
Travis: Perspiration was happening.
Marisha: Yeah, it was.
Sam: I gave you my hand.
Matt: More battle maps that will never get used.
Laura: Look at us not fighting things. That's really beautiful.
Matt: That would have been really bad, too.
Laura: I'm glad we didn't fight it.
Travis: Bad for us?
Matt: Well, just imagine a giant bird that grabs you and then drops you off the side of a mountain. Would have been an interesting fight. Cool. That concludes a unique Percy-less bottle episode of Critical Role.
Travis: Squadron of cows.
Matt: Squadron of flying midnight cows. That is probably the weirdest thing that's ever-- no, there's been weirder. That's in the top five of weird things that's happened in DND for me.
Sam: Fighting "formootion." (groaning) [end of transcript]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Welcome, everybody, to Critical Role! Our Thursday night show where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors play Dungeons and Dragons and roll dice and all that fun stuff in between! So for all you new folks, welcome to our chaos. For all you old folks, thanks and welcome back. We have a number of announcements to get through. I'll try and cruise through them as fast as humanly possible. Pardon my phone as a reminder. Google docs are a delightful thing. Starting off, I wanted to direct all you Critters to our official Twitter, @CriticalRole, for official news and announcements. You're welcome to still tweet at us for individual cast fun but we do have our official source for all official announcements, times, and our appearances. That would be the one to pay attention to. Go to @CriticalRole, follow it and any important stuff that comes in the future will be available via that Twitter. Awesome. Next up this weekend we're all going to be at New York Comic Con, which is going to be awesome. We have a two hour block from noon to 2:00 PM Saturday, October 12th. Where is it at? What's the room?
Liam: It's a weird word, the Winga Stage?
Matt: It's not on the Google Doc. Curse you, Google doc! But Saturday from noon to 2:00 PM, and then on Sunday, for those who can't make the actual convention, we're having an off-site gathering of Critters at the wonderful and illustrious comic book store Forbidden Planet. That will be from 2:30 to 4:30. Our time block shifted a little later in the day. 2:30 to 4:30, Forbidden Planet, we'll be there. We'll be signing autographs, meeting you guys, chatting it up, and we'll be debuting our brand new awesome poster here, exclusively for the New York Comic Con. Our Critical Role poster! We're super excited about it. This was wonderfully designed by one of our fellow Critters Joma Cueto. Joma did the art and Kim Davis did the actual layout and design. Both did an amazing job. We're going to have a bunch of these available. We'll be signing them for you guys, and we'll hope to see you there.
Liam: I love it.
Travis: They are pretty sexy.
Liam: We're going to be on the Wikia stage.
Matt: The Wikia stage on Saturday, near hall 1A, the Wikia stage at noon to 2:00 PM. Come find us on Saturday, we're going to be there. Also, a ton of mail was recently received just after Critmas. If your gifts weren't seen this last Critmas, they're probably in this batch. So next Critmas is probably going to be a long haul. It's going to be a doozy! But we're excited about that. That'll be the first Thursday of November, so look forward to that happening then. Next update. If you haven't been paying attention, we've been having occasional interviews once a week of our cast going up on Geek and Sundry's website. Today we had Travis's go up and if you haven't checked them out you should. It's a little step into our mindset, our crazy history and background of how this whole thing got started. Silly things ensue. So go read them if you have the chance, if you haven't yet. Or wait until after the show. Also, as of today we now have in the Geek and Sundry store Critical Role key chains and necklaces.
Laura: They look so cool.
Matt: Pretty rad. I'm really excited. They're metal and awesome. They're of our logo and if you feel like being as nerdy as we are and want to adorn your key chains with them, they are there available for your purchase.
Laura: They're custom order, so they make them when you order them. It takes a few weeks to get them once you order them, but it's worth it.
Liam: They have to come all the way from Kraghammer.
Matt: Mithril's hard to sculpt properly. Takes a while. Couple of other things, LARP: the Series, one of the live action series here in Geek and Sundry. Season two just premiered today. It's a really cool series that both has moments of drama and comedy that plays into the whole world and lifestyle of the LARPing game systems and the people. It's a really cool series. Check it out if that's your kind of bag. It's good stuff, really funny. Next Monday starts a new show called TPK Monday Nights, where our illustrious Ivan, who hosts many wonderful things here, will be running for the rest of October a group of other individuals through the RPG Outbreak Undead, which is actually a really cool RPG that Ivan actually designed and was in the whole process for, so it's Monday nights, check that out the rest of October! To keep the Halloween theme, we will probably be getting dead repeatedly at the hands of Ivan, so look forward to that. This is the last week you can buy the #NoShaveTil10k shirts. We have people who are keeping it up. I had to shave for Vin Diesel, but the rest of the month is straight on this now, largely for my Halloween costume and for this wonderful event. 20% of all proceeds from those shirts goes to the Extra Life charity we've been supporting, it helps out good people.
Zac: I drew that shirt, by the way. I had to look at his face for 12 hours.
Travis: You're welcome.
Zac: We've already hit 9,100. Protocol95, you are the first winner of the night!
Matt: Protocol95, congratulations. You will be winning the first bundle. Every 100 subscribers there will be another giveaway within the chat room. You have to be active in the chat to be up for it. It includes a cast photo signed by the cast of Critical Role, possibly signed while he's wearing that awesome beard. And a wonderful piece of art from our main artist Kit Buss, also signed by the cast of Critical Role. So every 100 subscribers, that giveaway goes out in the chatroom. Be active and bring your friends on to subscribe so you can win one. Last thing I want to mention, this has been a question that's come up quite a bit, some people are definitely eager to hear the information, so I had the pleasure on Monday this week of designing and running a very quick game of Dungeons and Dragons for Vin Diesel.
Liam: What? (laughs)
Matt: Let's just cross that bucket list item off immediately. That was ridiculous. So it was a lot of fun. He was fantastic, super awesome, genuine, and was really excited--
Laura: He rolled this die. It's sacred.
Taliesin: It was literally bucket list! That was one of the things we discussed when this game started; it could lead to a game with Vin Diesel.
Marisha: I bet if you go back and look at the Q and A session we had, someone asked our dream game crew--
Matt: Vin Diesel was one of our bucket list players. So we've already knocked one off on the show.
Taliesin: It's like a group mass suicide at this point.
Matt: Get matching tennis shoes, and it'll be great.
Liam: You didn't seem that excited, though.
Zac: We can already announce that next Thursday at the midpoint--
Matt: Next Thursday at the midpoint of next week's Critical Role, we are going to show a mostly complete video of that game. The full one will be released shortly thereafter, but next week, on Critical Role during the midpoint, we're going to show you the majority of that game session with him. Don't miss that.
Orion: Can I get a teaser? What did he smell like?
Liam: Iron.
Travis: Quarry.
Laura: Muscle.
Taliesin: Antifreeze and lilac.
Matt: All of those answers at once. A majestic scent. It was delightful. We'll have interviews going up throughout the week, exclusively next week here on Thursday you'll be seeing most of that game here and then more stuff's coming out for the week thereafter. Really excited about that, and I custom-made a witchhunter class for him that I tailored for that level, and there's been such a wide response for everyone asking about the class that I've now spent a lot of my free time that I'm not preparing for this game now customizing a homebrew witchhunter class for all of you to partake in. So that'll be fun and probably coming out sometime next week. It'll probably be broken. You're welcome to homebrew my homebrew, I'm not perfect, but it should be fun and a cool guide for some people to give it a shot as a player class, so look forward to that. Liam, you got a couple things to announce?
Liam: Yeah, just two things. I wanted to thank every Critter who helped out with Joe Madureira's Kickstarter with Airship Syndicate's Kickstarter for Battle Chasers: Nightwar. They crushed it. They got to almost every rung of their ladder. Maybe you guys could help them raise 100k tonight. But Joe told me that they saw a little bit of a bump every Thursday, and that our roleplaying power had some effect, so thank you guys, thank you very much.
Travis: Because we are many.
Matt: We are legion.
Liam: The other thing is tomorrow is Sam Riegel's birthday.
Travis: Nipples, is it really?
Liam: I have a birthday present for him tonight. Something I commissioned the lovely Kit Buss to make for you.
Sam: What? It's Vaxmas?
Liam: It's Vaxmas. Here it is. I'm going to send it across and then I'll tweet it out. You guys can look, but I made this just for you.
Sam: I'm not looking.
Marisha: I made this just for you.
Sam: Oh wow, that's really nice! I thought it was going to be vulgar. Wow. That's so sweet.
Travis: Kit Buss, why are you the best?
Sam: Thank you, Kit Buss. Me and two ladies, what could be better? Right?
Travis: I guess three ladies.
Sam: I don't know how to put this up, but thank you. That's so sweet. Aw. I won't kill you tonight.
Orion: Fun fact  Sam shares a birthday with my mom. That's why I'll never forget your birthday, ever.
Sam: And John Lennon.
Marisha: Happy birthday, Orion's mom.
Laura: Yeah. Happy birthday, Sam.
Matt: Happy unbirthday to Sam's mom, who is also a Critter. You should go follow her on Twitter.
Marisha: Momlan.
Liam: She's not effing around, either.
Matt: Any other announcements? Or shall we dive in?
Laura: I have one. I got nominated for a Golden Joystick award.
Matt: Really?
Laura: Yeah, for Fiona in Tales from the Borderlands.
Matt: That's awesome! (cheering)
Sam: Hey Travis, you didn't know this?
Laura: I didn't tell him. I think there's a week left of voting, so you can go and help out.
Orion: They can vote for you?
Laura: Yes, they can vote for me.
Sam: Can they vote many times?
Laura: I think you have to register your email address, so I don't know how many times you can vote, but you have to vote in all the categories in order to vote for the one category.
Travis: Congratulations, Laura.
Laura: Thanks, baby!
Marisha: As Orion says, release the Critters.
Matt: That's awesome. Go show your support for Fiona, and awesome! Let's go ahead and bring the mood back to our realm of imagination and fantasy and be back here in just a minute with the beginning of this night's Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: So to get you guys caught up on what happened recently, the group, having heard that the Briarwoods, a couple who had taken power in the town of Whitestone far to the northeast, apparently responsible for the destruction of Percy's entire family and his escape into the wilds of Tal'Dorei, were going to be coming to Emon to bridge a political handshake with Sovereign Uriel and all of Tal'Dorei proper to build a bridge across the channel that separates this continent from Wildemount across the sea. Upon hearing this, the party was planning to gather information, and in doing so Vax got himself caught by sneaking into their bedroom and was nearly killed in the process. The group managed to aid him, pull him out from the jaws of death, and the Briarwoods escaped through arcane means, leaving a shattered carriage, a mostly beaten driver of their carriage. Through the scuffle, a number of guards were hurt or killed, and the party, upon meeting an individual named Lilith, a tiefling, leading her back to the Keep, they were attacked, or seemingly attacked, by a series of bounty hunters that were after her. There was some intense violence displayed against a few of them, and this all got back to the Council. The Council called Vox Machina to the central palace and began a trial to see if they were responsible for attacking guests of the Council, ruining what could've been a very lucrative union between the two towns and possibly murdering an old woman. They had their membership revoked, and during this sequence, apparently the charmed Seeker Asum was restored, seemingly to little effect. The group then left, realizing that perhaps the moral ramifications of their actions are having a bigger impact due to their visibility and their heroic status in the kingdom at large. When they returned to the keep, they found two representatives of the northern farmers of Emon that required aid; their livestock had been stolen over the past few weeks and was putting them in dire straits when it came to the necessary amount of meat they had to raise. The group, trying to turn their morality on its head, decided to aid, waited out in the center of the cow pasture at night, masquerading, through illusionary magic, as cows themselves. The giant roc, a gargantuan bird, swooped down and grabbed Cow-leth, Keyleth, here. Swept her away. The rest of the party, Tiberius enabled to fly through arcane means, and thus we had a squadron of evening cows chasing after the roc, which then got turned into a cow, to crash into a mountain. They chased it back to its perch up in the Cliffside Mountains to the northwest of Emon.
Liam: Such an old trope in fantasy.
Matt: Isn't it, though? "Cow-mouflage." And engaged a guardian of this roc, a gnome druid who had been removed from society for quite some time. After some rather roundabout and at some points on-the-edge-of-conflict conversation, they managed to convince him to instead take the bird and flee across the Ozmit Sea, to the northwest, towards Vasselheim, where it would be a much better landscape for the creature to thrive and grow. After that, the party is making their way back. Right around the beginning of daybreak, towards the keep. So that is where we left off. Percy.
Taliesin: Yes? Hello.
Matt: Darkness. Cold, lonely darkness. A flicker of light. It swells, bright, white, blinding, then flashes of your family, screaming. Julius, silenced by a bolt to the throat. Vesper, thrown from a tower wall. Your younger brothers' lifeless bodies tossed in a pile. The smell of death filling your cell. Your father Frederick, a blade jutting from his chest, slick with crimson. Your mother, Johanna, burned with irons, screaming. Cassandra, running towards you, calling your name into the night, begging you to help. One, two, three arrows. She falls. Darkness once more. Darkness and red. Red of blood. Red of burning fire. The sky is fire. The world burns with flame and iron. The smoke rises from the cinders, coalescing into a face, black as soot with eyes as burning coals, and a wicked grin. It speaks with a raspy, rumbling bass, like a slow-moving landslide. "You hold your vengeance, Percival. You made it. You only need to take it for yourself. Make the world right. My gift is yours, and your gift shall bring justice. Our bargain stands eager to close." You suddenly come to consciousness, gasping loudly against the air. You feel the warmth of the forge across the side of the workshop crawling across your face. You are sitting at your workbench, having fallen asleep amidst a pile of contraptions in mid-construction. As you look around, you can see your leather gloves are still on, apron on, blackened soot spread across your face, and a series of things you were in mid-build on broken before you on your workshop table.
Taliesin: (sighs) How long have I been here?
Matt: There's nobody in the room, and you have no idea. You're underground in the workshop. You haven't seen the sun probably for a good day and a half.
Orion: It's a new day. I didn't waste it at all.
Matt: You have no idea quite how long you've been down here, and you've been left alone for quite some time.
Taliesin: I'm going to head upstairs.
Matt: You go and open the metallic door that leads into your workshop and come around the corner, and there's a chair set in the corner, where Jarett would be sitting, one of the head guards at your facility. Jarett, however, is standing, hands up to his throat, going (choking sounds) with no visible assailant.
Taliesin: (shouting) Help!
Sam: Are we there? No, we're not even there.
Matt: I want you to go ahead and roll initiative.
Sam: Oh shit, it's already started!
Laura: Trinket was down there.
Sam: Was?
Laura: Don't say that!
Sam: Just saying that Trinket died already.
Laura: Don't say it.
Taliesin: Natural 20. 28. (cheering)
Matt: And that's how Percy does it.
Travis: What is with that dice and you, man?
Liam: You are the yin to Wil Wheaton's yang.
Taliesin: He was sitting here 20 minutes ago. I rubbed him for luck when he was leaving the building.
Marisha: No, we have him. It's balance.
Matt: All right. So what's your total?
Taliesin: 28.
Matt: 28. (laughs) You are definitely-- Okay. You are up first. What do you want to do? As you come around the corner and you see this visual in front of you. If you want to go ahead and roll for Trinket, too.
Laura: (worried noises) Oh no!
Taliesin: So I just see him up like this?
Laura: 19.
Matt: 19? Nice.
Taliesin: Just for some reference, does it look like he's possessed, or does it look like he's trying to remove something?
Matt: It looks like he's trying to remove something from around his neck, and looking down, you can see his feet are actually off the ground, kicking. It looks like there's a little bit of air wisping around behind him.
Taliesin: How insane would it be to try and make a shot beneath his legs?
Matt: You can certainly go for it and try.
Taliesin: I'm going to drop down. Can I make an aimed shot against something I can't see?
Matt: You can try, it'll be with disadvantage, but you can definitely make it.
Orion: He's in the kitchen?
Laura: No, he's downstairs.
Sam: Can I request that the rest of us do the sounds of the ricocheting bullets in case he misses?
Taliesin: Okay, I want 5.1; start here and make it all the way down.
Laura: But you're not going to miss, so it doesn't matter.
Taliesin: I'm going to take an aimed shot for my first shot, and then start firing blindly.
Matt: This will be disadvantage against an invisible assailant.
Travis: It misses?
Taliesin: It missed. I'm just making sure I didn't misfire. No, I didn't! Thank god.
Matt: So what's the total?
Taliesin: 15.
Matt: Total of 15? Still hits.
Taliesin: Still hits? 15 hits? Oh, that's 16 points of damage, and he has to make a constitution saving throw to not be knocked prone.
Matt: Okay. What's the DC on that?
Taliesin: Where is my DC? DC of eight plus my proficiency mod, plus my dexterity mod, so 19.
Matt: Sure enough. You see all of a sudden the air go (gasp) and Jaret falls to his knees (coughs).
Taliesin: I'm going to take two more shots right above his head.
Matt: Go for it.
Sam: Don't hit Jarett.
Matt: Jarett's on his knees, prone, essentially.
Sam: He could still hit Jarett! He's our best guy.
Matt: You still have disadvantage on these.
Taliesin: I don't?
Matt: No, you still have disadvantage on these. It is still an invisible creature.
Taliesin: 20.
Matt: 20 hits.
Taliesin: That's 13.
Matt: 13 does not hit.
Taliesin: No, 13 points of damage.
Matt: Oh. Yes.
Taliesin: And then 20 again.
Matt: 20 hits.
Taliesin: Nine points of damage.
Matt: Nine points of damage. (gunshots) The gunshots are echoing through the hallway. Whatever this weird entity is, you can see some of the nearby cloth and dust swirl up from its movement, you hear this (gasping sound), this angry sucking sound in the air around you. Do you want to move, or are you staying where you are?
Taliesin: I'm going to stay where I am. And I'm going to keep yelling. Help! I don't think I have an earring.
Matt: You see some sort of shimmer of wind come around the corner towards you. This one turns around and (whooshing sound) over to the bars, and you can see in the distance, it's moving over towards where your captive currently is.
Orion: How far away are we from the keep?
Matt: I'm getting to that. At the end of this combat round, all of you guys are right toward the outskirts of the keep, and you hear the muffled ringing of gunshots from the inside of the keep.
Orion: We do hear that.
Matt: You do hear this as you're just getting to the outer gates.
Orion: As soon as I hear that, I cast Fly on myself and (whoosh).
Laura: Are you wearing an earring, Percy?
Matt: No, he is not. The entity swooshes down the stairs and comes at you. That's going to be a 22.
Taliesin: That hits.
Matt: And a 12.
Taliesin: That does not.
Matt: It swings towards you, and a giant slam of extremely condensed air with a raking claw impact hits you in the torso, doing 15 points of bludgeoning damage. The other one swings out, same direction. This time you actually pull off to the side and knock it out of the way with your Pepperbox. The one back there is going to attempt to grapple. Succeeds. That's its action, and you can see the driver that you had put into prison is currently being (choking) making strangling sounds in the distance. That ends it. Trinket's up.
Laura: Trinket. He can see Percy getting attacked and instinct takes over, and he runs forward and he claws him.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll for the attack.
Laura: That does not hit. That's a natural 20.
Matt: That will hit! (laughs) It begins.
Laura: Oh, that's the wrong thing. That's a 2d4.
Matt: So roll 2d4 and then multiply those by two.
Laura: 17 damage.
Matt: 17 damage, nice. Trinket runs up, coming out of his somewhat sleepy stupor, goes for a bite attack and grabs nothing with it, and turns around and rakes a claw backwards, manages to get the back of whatever this entity is, and you hear it scream (gasping scream). You do, at least.
Taliesin: I have a technical dispute, really quickly. Could the wraith have gotten that far, since I knocked him prone?
Matt: Yes, it could've, because it uses half its movement speed to get up.
Taliesin: Oh, thank you. Never mind.
Matt: Its movement is actually 50.
Taliesin: Ignore me! 50?!
Matt: Not that you know that. But it moved far for what you think it should've been able to.
Orion: By the way, for the record, Matthew, I have no idea what we're fighting.
Travis: Nobody does.
Orion: I'm just saying, I haven't meta-gamed here.
Matt: Congrats. (laughs) I'm proud of you.
Liam: Fresh start.
Matt: Jarett then gets up, sees this happening, moves over, and pulls out the key to try and open the prison door. Spends the turn doing so. Manages to get the door open. That's the end of Jarett's turn. Okay, now, the rest of you guys roll initiative.
Travis: Okay. Come on, you giant ball-bearing. Damn.
Laura: Does that count, if I hit it into my box and it slammed into the side? Does that count, or should I let it roll naturally?
Matt: Let it roll naturally. That would normally count, but it's fine. Wherever it lands, you take it, going forward. Okay, so 25 to 20?
Sam: Oh, initiative?
Taliesin: Keep up, people! Come on.
Matt: You hear the gunshot. You're entering this intensity.
Sam: I don't think it's anything. I think it's just him tinkering.
Matt: So Scanlan stays behind. 25 to 20? 20 to 15? What are your scores?
Liam: 15.
Orion: 15.
Laura: 17.
Marisha: 16.
Travis: 16.
Taliesin: Thank you all, by the way, for leaving a bear on suicide watch. That was really cool.
Laura: You're welcome.
Matt: Vex, what'd you get again?
Travis: 17.
Laura: I got 17.
Sam: He got 15.
Matt: 15, Tiberius. And what'd you get, Vax?
Liam: 15.
Matt: 15, all right. Three 15s.
Sam: I got three.
Matt: You got three? Okay. All right, so you guys all spend your turn, if you choose to, to rush through the gates. As soon as the gunshots go off, you can see Shayne's up on top, and she sees it, gives a quick turn, and you can see the gates begin to open, and you hear this angry grunting as your half-orc guard is now pulling the doors open as fast as he can. You guys find a moment and slip through, running towards the front of the keep. You guys manage to get, with full dash and full turn, including your flight-- because you fly a little bit faster, but you have a little more of an arc to get over-- you guys get to the front of the keep this turn. So you won't get into this until next round. That brings it back to the top. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: (sighs) There's no way I can fire at the one who's far away from me right now, is there?
Matt: It's hard to see.
Laura: But Jarett's got him.
Taliesin: I can ignore cover, though.
Matt: You can ignore cover, but you have this entity in front of you. I mean, you'll be at disadvantage regardless, because you're shooting at something invisible, and you have something that's in melee of you and you have a ranged weapon.
Taliesin: I'm going to see if there's a charge left in my glove and try and take the-- there wouldn't be a charge left in my glove, would there?
Matt: You glance down at the glove, and you see the gemstone in the center of the palm is currently dark and lifeless.
Taliesin: Okay. (sighs) Hold on, sorry.
Travis: Fan the hammer, motherfuck.
Taliesin: It gets weird when it's up close. Okay. Let's see what we do. All right. There's no way I can step back right now, is there?
Matt: Currently? I mean, you can if you want to. It'll get a free strike on you.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to try and take shots, then.
Matt: The one in front of you? Okay. Go for it. With disadvantage on each shot.
Taliesin: Firing with disadvantage? Screw it, I'm going to take my first one with sharpshooter to see if I can do any damage that way. Nope. Actually, that's a misfire.
Matt: So Pepperbox (explosion sound). You go to shoot, and--
Marisha: (ricochet sound)
Matt: The barrel gets clogged, and the front of it actually catches fire for a second, and you have to shake it out right now. It's completely offset, and it's going to take a moment to even get it to where you can fire again.
Taliesin: Okay. Do I have six seconds?
Matt: You do. And you've used one attack. You have two more attacks.
Taliesin: Well, it misfired.
Matt: Yeah, that weapon you have to use an action to repair.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm going to do something a little weird. I'm going to pull out Bad News. I know I can't shoot this close with it, or god only knows what would happen. I'm going to try and swing it like a pugil stick, and I'm going to try and hit him with the butt of Bad News.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a melee attack. This is strength-based. Add your proficiency modifier and your strength modifier.
Taliesin: 15?
Matt: You still have disadvantage on it because you can't see it. And you're not proficient.
Taliesin: 15?
Matt: 15 just barely hits. (cheering)
Matt: All right, so go ahead and roll-- with the size of Bad News, I'd say 1d6, plus your strength modifier.
Taliesin: Four.
Matt: Okay, so four points of damage, as you bludgeon it. You took a turn to get it out. Your third attack is then slamming it in the side. Whatever entity you smacked gets pushed against the wall. Go ahead and roll a d20 for me.
Taliesin: 14.
Matt: Okay. So the impact does not appear to damage Bad News in this instance. It is a fragile construct, and even doing melee attacks with it does subject it to a misfire possibility.
Taliesin: I hit it with the stock, I was careful.
Matt: I know. Okay, so that concludes your turn?
Taliesin: Yeah, I'm kind of-- yeah.
Matt: Okay, you stay there. All right. The one that's in front of you now is going to go ahead and go over this way. Trinket-- well, no, it's still in melee, so it doesn't actually get an attack. It does get two strikes on you. That is a 17.
Taliesin: Nope.
Matt: And that is 18.
Taliesin: Armor class is 18.
Matt: So it does just hit you.
Taliesin: Can I do that crazy thing?
Matt: No, I've eliminated that.
Taliesin: Oh, you've removed that. Okay, never mind. I don't have the new update, sorry. I don't have a dodge anymore, right?
Matt: No, the dodge is not there. It rarely came into play. Okay, so that puts you at another 15 points of bludgeoning damage as it just smacks you right across the head. Your eyes go dizzy for a second, and you take a minute to refocus your vision, and you can now see in the air, the shimmering expression that looks like a humanoid face stretched and ghastly going (gasps) in front of you, but it's still barely even visible, and only because of the proximity to you are you able to actually make out any sort of shape or shimmer in the air in front of you. The other one is attempting to choke out the prisoner. However, the prisoner resists through athletics, so he's currently holding back at bay the strength of the entity. That ends its turn. Trinket's up.
Laura: Trinket's up! He's going to try to jump and land on top of the ghostly thing and bite its face. I don't know how to do that.
Matt: (laughs) To do a real leap, Trinket would have to back up and then run towards it. If Trinket wants to do that. Okay. So Trinket backs up. As it does, it gets one free swipe at Trinket. That is 18 to hit.
Laura: I'm having an issue here. Because I have 18 in parentheses, and then I wrote a 20 and I circled it and I don't know why.
Matt: I don't know why, either.
Laura: 18 is probably--
Matt: Yeah, we'll say 18. So that hits. Trinket takes 15 points of bludgeoning damage as the entity swings out and backhands Trinket. However Trinket now leaps-- go ahead and make an athletics check.
Liam: He has better armor class than I do.
Sam: Does he have armor?
Laura: He does! He's got his bulette armor, man. He's a cannonball. What am I doing? A strength?
Matt: Athletics, yeah.
Laura: 17?
Matt: 17. Yeah. Trinket leaps forward, slamming this entity onto the ground and knocking it prone, and you get to go ahead and make a bite attack.
Laura: Yes! That didn't count because it slipped out of my hand. That was even worse than the other one. So 11. It slipped out of my hand. It shouldn't count if it goes like that! 20.
Matt: So Trinket manages to knock it prone, however, because it gets pushed out of the way, Trinket has a hard time, Trinket just makes a big slash and a bite out in the air where it once was and misses entirely.
Laura: But he's gone prone.
Matt: But he is knocked prone. Jarett's now going to attempt to grapple the entity.
Sam: Wait, Trinket missed? (ricochet sound) (laughter)
Matt: Jarett manages to reach out and grab onto whatever this creature is, hold onto it, just grappling, and is going to attempt to try and pull it back. For this, I will do a contested roll on that. It rolled a one. Jarett pulled it back that far, managing to let go of its quarry, and is currently holding onto some sort of angry, whirling entity at that point. That ends Jarett's turn. The rest of you guys all manage to make your way up into the armory up top. First is Vex. You rush in there, and what do you want to do?
Laura: I want to run down and shoot something.
Matt: Okay. You can get just about there.
Laura: Can I see anything? Can I ricochet an arrow to hit?
Matt: (laughs) I would say this guy has three-quarters cover, so it would be disadvantage on the attack. You already have disadvantage because it's invisible, so it's hard to hit, regardless.
Laura: That was the same one each time. 28.
Matt: 28? 28 hits.
Laura: Oh, I didn't fucking Hunter's Mark him. God damn it. Fuck. 15.
Matt: 15 points of damage. The first arrow sinks into whatever's there, and you can see it jutting out of no physical space.
Laura: Now I'm going to Hunter's Mark him and I'm going to hit him again. Can I do that?
Matt: Technically, it's part of your attack. You can do two attacks first, then you can bonus action, so you're like (arrow sounds) and then you Hunter's Mark it after.
Laura: All right. That one doesn't hit. Doesn't matter. Doesn't hit anyway. I missed it.
Sam: (ricochet sound)
Matt: Second shot shatters against the back wall of the stone. You can Hunter's Mark for your bonus.
Laura: I Hunter's Mark him.
Matt: All right. Entity is now Hunter's Marked. That ends Vex's turn. Keyleth, you now also make your way into the doorway.
Marisha: How far can I get?
Matt: About there. Nothing's in visual sight right now, unfortunately.
Marisha: Nothing's in visual sight?
Matt: No, half of that was getting to that point. You could dash and try and make your way in, but you wouldn't be able to do anything.
Marisha: Can I dash and then make a bonus action?
Matt: You could, yeah. Your call. What do you got? Grog, you're on deck.
Marisha: I'll just wait.
Matt: Okay. Keyleth waits there. Grog, you're up.
Marisha: Let me just scootch over so I can be behind Vex.
Matt: You have a little better movement, so you actually manage to get two more squares in. What's your speed again?
Travis: 50.
Matt: 50? Yeah, you manage to get up to there, and now your turn begins.
Travis: I go into a rage, and I come in, and I turn to the right, and I run up as close as I can to Jared--
Laura: Jarett.
Travis: Yeah, Jarett. And wispy fuck.
Matt: All right, so you charge in. Angry, you see Jarett's currently reaching back and trying to go for his crossbow now that this entity's in his face. He's grappled it with one arm and he's reaching back to try and grab it. You come rushing in. Go for it.
Travis: I take out a holy oil vial out of the Bag of Holding, I crush it in my hand, and I take a swing at whatever he's holding.
Matt: All right. Cool. So as you pull out (glass breaking) the pain from the glass even further angers you in your rage. You can see a mix of holy water and blood trickle down from your fist as you clench it. Go ahead and swing for a punch with disadvantage.
Travis: That's a one.
Matt: So that first strike just whiffs over. Through your anger, you're unable to focus on where this entity may be.
Travis: Not off to a good start with this. Number two. Disadvantage. Fuck.
Matt: What's the total?
Travis: 15.
Matt: 15 just barely hits. Go ahead and roll.
Travis: One of these guys?
Matt: Go ahead and roll that. Half that damage, yes.
Travis: One. Plus rage, which is--
Matt: Plus strength.
Travis: Oh, right. Eight.
Matt: So eight points of damage to it. All righty. (whack) It hits, and you hear this (yelps) sound as it takes the impact, and you can see this strange, angry face appear suddenly out of the shimmering air that just then disperses again, and you don't quite know where it is. You can make a third strike now, if you want.
Laura: Did it do any holy damage?
Matt: Did not appear to have any additional effect on the entity.
Travis: Well, hell, it was worth a shot. Oh, at disadvantage. 19.
Matt: 19 still hits. Go ahead and roll the next attack.
Travis: Eight again.
Matt: Eight damage again. (whack) You backhand it with your third strike, this time finding the edge of its face again, and you see the chair right next to it tumble as it barely manages to catch itself and keep itself aloft. Nevertheless, this strange invisible entity is still there holding its ground.
Travis: Would you say the blood from my hand is splattering Jarett behind him?
Matt: You look over at Jarett. Jarett's currently trying to grab onto the creature and keep it grappled. So yeah, it's spattering on him.
Travis: I'm a painter.
Matt: (laughs) All right, that ends Grog's turn. Vax and Tiberius. You guys both get up to the edge of this room here.
Orion: Your cape is looking really nice, Vax.
Liam: I'm clicking my Boots of Haste, and I get double movement, so I get to go 60 feet. I'm going to slink up right beside Trinket and stab the shit out of this invisible thing.
Orion: Stab him! Hey, what do they look like?
Liam: So because Trinket's right there, this is a sneak attack. That hits. That is 29 to hit.
Matt: That'll hit. (laughter)
Matt: It is prone. It is invisible but it is prone, so that evens out to no advantage or disadvantage.
Liam: (counting) 25 for the first hit.
Matt: 25, all right.
Laura: Don't you double it? You had to double 19.
Liam: No, he didn't-- that's a critical hit.
Laura: Oh, right.
Liam: One shy. So now out comes the Dagger of Life-Stealing. It misses-- well, does 15 hit?
Matt: 15 just barely hits.
Liam: Just barely hits? Oh, that's better than I thought. That is three plus six is nine for damage, and then the Keen Dagger comes back, and that gets a 27, so that also hits for nine of damage.
Matt: All right. So as you rush over, you stab downward. You hear this (gurgle) sound as your blade comes down into whatever entity's there, and your hand moves around as it struggles against the blade. You pull it out, grab your other dagger, and then throw it in the air, catch it, slam it down again for that third strike, and then pull back and stab a third time.
Liam: And Trinket is very comforting, pressed against my shoulder as I do all that. He's supple.
Matt: Supple bear. #SuppleBear. All right, that ends your turn. Tiberius, what are you doing?
Orion: How far can I get?
Matt: That's about as far as you can get with your movement. You currently do not have visual on either of them. You're flying. What's your fly speed?
Orion: 60 feet.
Matt: You said that last time, and we found out it was 40, I believe wasn't it?
Orion: Was it 40? I thought it was 60. It was double the-- shit, hold on. I have a card--
Matt: You have a card and yet I find it faster.
Orion: 60 feet.
Matt: It is 60. You're right. Yeah, so you can go double. You are now just coasting down the stairway.
Orion: I'm going to attempt something I haven't actually tried before.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Orion: Because there's one to my right and one to my left, right?
Matt: Correct. There's one over here that has Grog and Jarett flanking. The other one has Percy, Vax, and Trinket all around it. That one's actually prone on the ground. It's hard to see normally; it's very hard to see now that it's swarmed.
Orion: Do I have visual of both wraiths?
Matt: You have visual of both entities, whatever they are.
Orion: Okay, sorry. I call them wraiths. Okay, so. I'm going to cast at--
Sam: Have we rested, by the way?
Matt: No, you have not rested yet.
Sam: So we're down a bunch of spells.
Matt: Yeah, you're still where you were when you came back.
Marisha: Well, to be fair, we talked. We didn't have a battle.
Sam: Some of us used spells. Fly and stuff.
Orion: I'm going to try to do this about now. I'm going to look to my right and my left and at 6th-level I'm going to try to do Glacial Blast and split the damage and try to hit both of them. Because it does 8d8 damage--
Matt: Are you doing this single-stream?
Orion: I'm trying to split my arc. So instead of doing this, I'm trying to-- (ice sounds)
Matt: Okay. How much damage is it?
Orion: At sixth level, it's 8d8 damage.
Matt: Okay, and what's the saving throw?
Orion: 17.
Matt: 17, okay. Jarett and Vax have to make saving throws, as well. Go ahead and make that. Jarett rolled an 18 and has high dex, so yeah, Jarett makes his save. That's half-damage for Jarett.
Liam: 28 for me.
Matt: All right. So you take no damage, because you're a rogue. Go ahead and roll damage. That's 18 for one. This one fails, this one succeeds.
Orion: Cool. Right hand does-- oh, sweet.
Marisha: No. That's a d10. These are d8s.
Orion: Sorry, my bad.
Matt: It's actually not prone. They're immune to being prone.
Orion: Right hand-- that's 14 to my right, and then 18 to my left.
Matt: So how much is that?
Orion: So 14 to my right, 18 to my left.
Matt: Okay. Got you.
Orion: The one that doesn't save gets (freezing sound).
Matt: It would if it wasn't immune. However, as you arc down, the ice blast comes through. You can see Vax manages to pull down to the ground and get out of the way in time. Jarett ducks out of the way and it blasts over, hitting both these entities. Ice crackles around both their forms, but then the forms shift out of it. That ends your turn right there. Comes back to Scanlan.
Sam: Oh, where am I?
Matt: You are right there. Just entered the room behind everybody else.
Sam: Where does Percy do his tinkering?
Matt: Over here.
Sam: Because I can't see what's going on down there.
Matt: No, you just see, currently, these three down the hallway. You can just see Tiberius blast a bunch of ice, arc in the air.
Sam: Okay, so I know there's shit going on down there, but I can't really see what. So I would probably just Dimension Door into the tinkering room, because that's where I assume Percy is. And then I see what's going on, and nobody's there. Do I have line-of-sight on anybody?
Matt: Currently, you see Percy through this doorway right there.
Sam: Okay. Well, then. I can move also, can't I?
Matt: Yeah, Dimension Door is your action.
Sam: I'll move towards him. Oh, then I see a crazy thing in front of me. Shit. So I probably take a couple steps back. (laughter)
Sam: And then I'll inspire Percy. (sings) All the single Percys, all the single Percys.
All: (sing) All the single Percys, all the single Percys, put your guns up-up-up.
Matt: d10 inspiration dice to you, Percy.
Taliesin: What is that, a d10?
Matt: d10, yeah. That brings it to the top of the combat round. Percy, you're up first.
Taliesin: I'm going to use my action to try and clear my gun.
Matt: Okay. So go ahead and make your check.
Taliesin: What is that again? Did it change since last time?
Matt: That one shouldn't have changed, no.
Taliesin: Okay, so it's 11. I'm adding my bonus die. God damn it. Nine.
Matt: Nine. As you pull over your Pepperbox, you're like, (ping). The actual barrel comes off and hits the ground and rolls off toward the back of the room.
Taliesin: I'm tossing it into my room. I'm using an action surge. Actually, can I even do that? Yes, I'm going to use my action surge, and I'm going to walk over to the wraith on the ground, put the barrel of Bad News up to it, and pull the trigger.
Matt: The wraith is no longer on the ground, by the way.
Taliesin: Is he not?
Matt: The entity actually, upon looking, is immune to being prone. So we won't retcon anything, but as you go to pull the barrel up, you can see now the face is standing up before you.
Taliesin: I'm just going to try and shove it until I hit something and then pull.
Matt: Okay, so go ahead and roll with disadvantage with Bad News.
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: 22 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: Oh shit. We're all going to go deaf.
Laura: Oh man, that's going to be loud as fuck.
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: 19. (gunshot) Bad News goes off. The sound is deafening in the room, the echoing of the explosion through the stone walls. I'm going to go ahead and have you roll a constitution saving throw.
Liam: Vax or Liam?
Matt: Vax. Both, maybe.
Liam: Roll a what now?
Matt: Constitution saving throw.
Taliesin: If you fail, I get to scream in your ear.
Liam: That is a 15.
Matt: 15, okay. You don't go deaf, but your ears are ringing very hard. The entity screams and then disperses.
Taliesin: I get a grit point back.
Marisha: You do! Dope.
Matt: Okay, so two more attacks. Or you have to use one to reload.
Taliesin: I have to use one to reload. I have one more attack, but I've already-- I didn't move. I'm going to try and roll around the corner and I'm going to take another shot. 27.
Matt: 27 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: 19 points of damage.
Matt: Okay. This time (gunshot), the shot goes off right by your head, Tiberius. You're flying in the air and you look down and see him pull Bad News out right beneath you, and before you have a chance to react, (gunshot) the flash of the muzzle just bursting forward, a big plume of black powder smoke fills the air around you.
Orion: So I see a big flash? And what do I roll?
Matt: Make a constitution saving throw.
Taliesin: Sorry.
Orion: Seven.
Matt: Okay, you are considered deaf until the start of his next turn.
Orion: Okay, so as soon as I see the flash, I go, (yelps). That's all I do. (laughter)
Matt: So that ends your turn, Percy? All right. Next, this entity that's Hunter's Marked is going to rush forward, straight out of the grapple from Jarett. Shifts right out of his hands. Is going to run forward and take the double attack against the prisoner. That's a 19 plus six. 25 hits. And 15 hits, as well. Takes 30 points of damage. Is currently unconscious. Punches him twice, and you see the poor driver is knocked up into the ceiling, falls down onto the bed, and is half-laying off. You see blood trickling down the front of his face, his eyes open, and slowly close.
Marisha: We need him alive.
Matt: That brings us to Trinket's turn.
Marisha: Come on, Trinket!
Laura: Trinket roars, rushes forward.
Matt: Actually, we're now going to roll Trinket into your turn.
Laura: Oh, all right. Then he stays there.
Matt: Okay. Trinket stays there until it's your turn. Jarett is going to rush forward and come to this corner. The crossbow is not much aid at this point. Reaches over and pulls out a short sword and lunges forward with the short sword. Yeah, with disadvantage, nine. Oh god. Rolls a 20 and a three. Great. Sorry, Jarett. Swinging through, trying to pierce through the bars at this entity, and can't seem to get any sort of attack to hit.
Laura: So he's actually locked in the thing still?
Matt: Jarett got the door open, he came through to try and grab the creature, and as he tried to pull it back, the creature sifted through his hands again to go ahead and attack the prisoner. That ends Jarett's turn. Vex, it is now your turn.
Laura: Okay. Can I move forward so I can see?
Matt: Yeah, you can see about there; it would give you visual on the entity.
Laura: All right. Yeah, I'll do that. I'll shoot him. He's Hunter's Marked already, okay, good.
Matt: He is, yes. So both attacks at disadvantage.
Laura: 15.
Matt: 15 hits. Just hits.
Laura: 16.
Matt: 16 also hits-- oh, 16 damage. All right. Including the additional Hunter's Mark?
Laura: Yes. And then 14 doesn't hit.
Matt: 14 does not hit. The arrow disappears in the back of the cell, scattering and shattering against part of the stone wall.
Laura: And Trinket, can he get up to him? Oh, but I took all the attacks.
Matt: Correct. So Trinket rushes up, but doesn't attack.
Laura: Trinket stays in the corner, then, because he can't do shit.
Matt: Okay. Trinket just cheers you on. (bear growl) Cool, that ends your turn. Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to-- seeing the direction that everyone's pointing, going to walk up and reach around Vex and I'm going to cast Faerie Fire right-- oh god, wrong direction. Right in the fucking eye. (laughter)
Liam: You turn on yourself.
Marisha: Crit fail. It's a 20-foot cube, so I want to cast it right in the cell.
Matt: Okay. So as you cast that, it's going to attempt to make its save. What's the DC on that?
Marisha: Against my spell's DC? 18.
Matt: And it fails with a 14. All right, so you guys watch as she reaches her hand out. The entire cell, all of a sudden there's a burst of purplish light, and these little dust-stars of purple glowing begin to drift down from the ceiling. As they do, they cling to whatever this form is, and you can now see, very clearly, this invisible entity that is surrounded in these purple sparkles. It looks humanoid from the torso up, but its legs are shimmering and shifting around. You now have a very clear look on it. You've nullified its invisibility.
Marisha: You have advantage now.
Matt: Gives advantage, as well? Yeah. You guys now all have advantage on this entity.
Marisha: And I'm going to take my bonus action to do Healing Word on the-- it's not Jarett that's unconscious, it's the cab driver. On the cab driver.
Matt: Okay, so go ahead and roll for the Healing Word.
Sam: Desmond. Jarett and Desmond.
Matt: How much does he heal?
Marisha: Six plus my spell modifier. So ten? Is that right, is that how it works? Plus my spell level? Is that what it is with Healing Word?
Matt: I think it's plus five, whatever it is. Healing Word, yeah.
Marisha: 1d4 plus my spellcasting ability modifier.
Matt: So it's plus six.
Marisha: Six, so 12.
Matt: 12. Got you. Okay. Desmond's eyes clarify for a second and he begins to breathe heavily. Still looking very wounded, but conscious and prone across the bed, as the entity that's Hunter's Marked is still looming over it, bringing its fists up for another round to try and finish its job. That ends your turn, Keyleth. Grog, you're up.
Travis: There you are. Hold still, Casper! And I run up and I swing. (laughter)
Matt: As you rush up angrily, make your strike.
Travis: That's 28.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: That's a 27.
Matt: Hits.
Liam: Those would hit Tiamat.
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17 also hits, so roll damage three times. As you rush up, the bars open, bringing the axe down on top of this now sparkling purple entity.
Travis: Ten, so 14 on the first one, plus fire damage.
Matt: Cool.
Travis: 17 plus-- 21. No. Is that right? Did I do that right?
Laura: Yeah?
Travis: Yeah. So 21. The second one.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: And 17, 21 again!
Matt: Nice! All righty, so you run up (hammer strikes) hammer down a third time, you can see its body being beaten around by the attack. And you see the whispering of its wind around its lower body is starting to slow, and it's looking like it's getting more sluggish, but it's definitely still intent on its job. That ends your turn, Grog. Vax, you're up.
Liam: All right, in a split second I'm watching Grog take the thing apart. I size up everybody in front of me in the distance and I think I can Assassin Creed my way through the crowd because I can go 60 feet normally, so 30 feet if it's crowded, and I'm going to use Grog's proximity to take this thing apart.
Matt: Okay. I will say you would normally get advantage. Because you're attacking it through the bars, melee, it disables it, so it's just a straight attack. You're having to fight it through prison bars with daggers, which is difficult.
Liam: All right. So the first one is terrible, it's a 14.
Matt: 14 misses, unfortunately.
Liam: And that's where the sneak attack damage is, right?
Matt: Well, it's the first attack you get on it would get it. So even if you miss the first attack, you can still get it with the second and third.
Liam: All right. Third one is a 21.
Matt: That does hit.
Liam: So there's the delivery system, and that is the Keen Dagger. 26, 27, 32. 38.
Matt: All right. With that, the first blade comes through and you try and get it through the bars and it gets nothing. You pull back, take the other dagger and swing through it. Falls too wide and you have to bring your arm back. This time, you can see after Grog has slammed it with the hammer, it falls. The sparkles come towards the edge. Its slamming its back into the bars. It's right there in front of you, and you use that instance to go ahead and reach through the bars, grab it by the throat, and stab it repeatedly, at which point its form disperses into wind around you.
Liam: And I slap Grog on the back and say, you softened the shit of him. That's terrible English. You softened him up for me! Asshole.
Travis: You've been drinking?
Laura: (giggling) You softened the shit of him.
Liam: You shitted him up for me, Grog. Good job.
Matt: You guys look over. You see Desmond is still on the bed, eyes wide (panting).
Orion: I rush over to Desmond, and out of my pouch I bring out a sandwich that I had made earlier. I hand it to him and I go, Desmond, decker. Here, have it. It's a decker sandwich. You should have it.
Matt: Gets up on the bed and takes it. "What happened?"
Laura: I run up and I cast Cure Wounds on him.
Matt: Okay. So go ahead and roll for the Cure Wounds heal on that.
Travis: You casting that all over the place now aren't you, fancy-pants?
Sam: From the tinkering room I yell out, is it safe? Can I come out now?
Orion: It's safe.
Liam: There's four more of them. Stay back.
Sam: Oh! Okay. I'll stay.
Travis: I remember I have the holy oil in my hand, mixed with the blood, and I start blessing him. With bloody fist.
Laura: 17.
Matt: All right, awesome.
Laura: Do I add my wisdom to that?
Matt: You add your wisdom modifier.
Laura: Then it's 20.
Matt: That's good to know. All right, cool. All right.
Orion: How's that sandwich?
Matt: Desmond isn't eating it. He's just holding it and still taking in. "What happened? What was that?! Look, what was that thing?"
Travis: Yeah, what was that thing?
Laura: What was that thing?
Orion: I would say opaque buttholes.
Marisha: Can we do a check?
Matt: Make an arcana check.
Taliesin: I'll make an arcana check, too.
Sam: How did you get two?
Orion: I rolled one by accident.
Matt: If you rolled by accident, you have to roll intentionally to take the score. Because if you were to accidentally roll really bad, you'd be like, "That doesn't count! I didn't actually roll."
Orion: A hard 12.
Matt: Total of 12?
Liam: I rolled a 22 arcana check.
Marisha: 22?
Laura: Oh, he's faced these things before. That's what it is.
Matt: That's the thing, you've seen these. These entities are used by certain high-level arcane practitioners. They can be summoned as certain spells. They're air elemental-based in nature, but they're generally known as invisible stalkers. They're used as assassins that have a very sole, single-minded purpose.
Liam: All I know is they feel like the Briarwoods.
Matt: You get that, based on recent events, there's probably a good probability that was the source of this.
Laura: Do you know from your previous experience if there's any way to protect against them? Other than setting up walls?
Liam: Well, all I know is how to stick my face in the beehives, apparently.
Laura: Does anybody know how to protect against air stalkers?
Orion: Give me a day, I will find out.
Matt: Jarett, at which point has put his hand against the wall, and goes, "Ugh. I would recommend that next time you decide to put me on watch, let me know if we're up against things that are invisible. I apologize. I was not prepared for such a foe to show up."
Laura: We were unprepared to warn you. I'm sorry.
Matt: "It's all right. If I might ask, what exactly are we up against here?"
Travis: Fuck if we know.
Orion: Seems like we're up against either vampires or liches. Prepare the troops. There will be some changes made to the keep over the next couple of days. We shall shore up security, as well.
Matt: "I would like also to consider possibly some changes made to our income, as this suddenly turned from a general guarding job to going up against the denizens of the afterlife. It's already been a very dangerous proposition."
Orion: Of course. We shall discuss that in the-- is it the morning?
Matt: "Very well. I'm going to go ahead and make sure the rest of my team is alive."
Liam: Jarett! Are you up for it?
Matt: "If the pay is good, yes."
Laura: Jarett's up for anything.
Matt: "You understand. Ugh, okay. Talk to you in the morning. I think a bit of rest is necessary." And he makes his way up the stairs to the rest of the keep. Desmond at this point is still in shock, and he starts absentmindedly eating the sandwich that you handed him.
Orion: It's good, right? I had one yesterday.
Laura: Well. Maybe it's best not to leave him down here.
Orion: No. You should stay in the guest room. Come.
Matt: "Is it safer there?"
Orion: Yes, it is.
Matt: "I told you they'd come for me. I told you they would."
Laura: But you know what! You're still alive.
Sam: You've had the worst couple of days.
Matt: Wipes the blood from the side of his face and looks at it.
Orion: Let's take you upstairs and get you all fitted... Who do we talk to that works for us that does the actual construction to the keep?
Laura: That is one of Uriel's staff. In which case, we cannot talk to them right now.
Matt: Yeah, the individual responsible for the construction of the keep was Lord Riskel Daxio, which is an elven gentleman on the Council that helped oversee the whole construction and helped you guys design it, so.
Liam: Is he still on the bed?
Matt: Still on the bed.
Liam: I sit down next to him and say, listen. You are a victim of circumstance, we understand that. We are, to a certain degree, as well. We're not leaving your side, and really there's no other choice. I mean, you're fucked like we are. So we will do our best to protect you, I promise you.
Matt: "Okay."
Travis: I volunteer to sleep down in the room.
Liam: Oh wow.
Orion: He shall stay in my quarters.
Travis: It's better down here, isn't it?
Liam: In a locked cell with Grog? I think is pretty safe.
Laura: I think it's probably better to bring him upstairs, because if it's locked, we can't get to him very quickly.
Orion: Don't worry, we can enchant his room, as well, to have an alert thing go on if anything happens in the room at night, and it would be safer. I shall be sleeping in my laboratory for the next several nights, as well.
Marisha: I mean, I can still go ahead and do the planar bindings to an elemental that maybe I should've done beforehand. It lasts 30 days.
Liam: I like all of these things, but I think Grog as a bunkmate is a good idea.
Matt: At this point, Desmond leans into you and quietly says in your ear, Vax, he goes, "Is where I'm sleeping going to be away from him?" He looks over towards Percy.
Travis: Yeah, totally away from him.
Marisha: It's fine. You'll have him in between you and him.
Matt: You don't hear that; it's whispered to Vax.
Liam: There is a lot of history for Percy wrapped up in this and he has done you wrong, no question. But the answer is yes. You will be separate from Percival. You will be protected. And you have my word.
Matt: Make a persuasion roll.
Laura: And you have my axe!
Liam: I'm going to use some Luck. Using my Luck. Natural 20, with Luck.
Matt: Takes another bite of the sandwich and packs it away in a little piece of cloth he had in a pocket, puts it in there. And you know, you can still see as he brings his hand up, you can see the blood streak against where the fingers were on the lower half of that hand. Strokes the edge of his chin and goes, "Okay. I trust you. Please. Please don't let them kill me."
Liam: We may be fuck-ups--
Orion: Speak for yourself.
Liam: But we're not without ability. You have my word. I promise you.
Matt: "Okay. I'm very tired."
Laura: Desmond, dear. Let's go upstairs. Grog! That bed needs to go back up to the guest room.
Travis: Fucking hell. I start to take the fucking bed up the stairs.
Matt: Takes you roughly another 20 minutes or so to bring it out of there, fitting it through the door.
Orion: Erwen! Where is that old man?
Matt: As you call out, Erwen eventually comes down. "Hi. Yes, Tiberius. You called? It's quite early in the morning." He has his night cap on and he's rubbing at his eyes.
Marisha: What time is it?
Matt: Right now, it's about probably 6 30 in the morning or so. It's just after sunrise; you guys haven't even slept yet.
Orion: Oh. Shit. Never mind, I'll talk to you once we've slept. Go back to sleep. I didn't realize what time it was! I thought it was 10:00 AM, which is totally different than 6:00 AM. I didn't know that.
Matt: "It's all right. All right. In the morning then, Master Tiberius." And he goes off to his bed to sleep.
Travis: We go to sleep?
Laura: Yeah, we need to sleep.
Sam: I gently fall asleep under Percy's workbench, where I've been hiding this whole time.
Matt: Okay, make a stealth check.
Taliesin: Not going to sleep down there.
Sam: Natural 20.
Matt: All right, so. As the rest of you go to sleep--
Taliesin: I'm going to go into my workshop.
Liam: On my way up, I fall in next to Keyleth. Ask, is your hand all right?
Marisha: It's fine.
Liam: Do you need anything?
Marisha: Nope.
Travis: Since he's sleeping in the room with me, I take a few of the caltrops that I have and I put them on the inside of the doorway before I close it.
Matt: Okay. So you guys are doing your setup there. Percy, you're in your workshop. Go ahead and roll a perception check, Percy.
Taliesin: 17.
Matt: 17. Okay. You go about your work.
Taliesin: I'm fixing my gun.
Matt: Okay. The materials that it requires you to do so are expensive, you actually have to pay the cost of the gun, and go ahead and make another check.
Sam: The fuck is that sound?
Matt: So go ahead and make another tinkering check. And the cost of the Pepperbox should be at the bottom of your--
Taliesin: Is it the whole cost or half?
Matt: Should be half the cost. It should say under the repair rules for a misfire.
Taliesin: Half cost. Oh my god, that's awful. Okay, tinkering check. 12.
Matt: 12. Okay.
Taliesin: Technically, that would be a success.
Matt: Yeah. So you take the rest of the morning, unsleeping, the dark bags under your eyes. You manage to get the Pepperbox back in working order.
Taliesin: Oh, I was asleep. I wasn't with them, so I just woke up really early.
Matt: Right, right. But even so, even though you slept, it hasn't been very restful. It's been technically enough to rest, but your evening has been fraught with nightmares. Perpetually. But your Pepperbox is repaired, and does cost you half the cost of the weapon cost to repair.
Taliesin: 75 gold.
Orion: I sleep in my little nook in my laboratory.
Matt: Okay. You guys rest through the rest of the morning, waking up past noon, probably about 2:00 in the afternoon. You all gradually begin to come to consciousness. Make your way downstairs. As you come downstairs, you can already smell breakfast has been prepared. You can see Laina already has the meal set out for you, and as you guys approach, "Oh it's so nice of all of you to come down! It was very interesting. These very nice folks came by this morning and dropped off a whole bunch of food and fresh veggies and stuff. Makes for a great meal. It was very nice of them. Food is served." And she gives out the plates and gives you a smile.
Travis: I love you. (eating noises)
Liam: Is this a frittata?
Matt: "I believe that's what it's called in some circles. I'm trying a few new things!"
Travis: Can I make a beard check?
Orion: I'm going to take some food and feed it to Lockheed and roll for my animal handling for the day.
Travis: 66.
Matt: No effect, unfortunately.
Travis: Just a little tingle?
Matt: There is a slight tingle, but it's mostly a placebo. (laughter)
Matt: As you guys are having your meals and you're trying and you're feeding food, teaching this, everyone roll a perception check.
Liam: At home?
Orion: 16!
Liam: I rolled a one.
Marisha: 17.
Liam: This frittata is lovely.
Sam: Six.
Travis: Eight.
Laura: 16. But my passive is 21.
Matt: Right, understood. Good to know. Percy's down in his workshop. As you guys are in the middle of your meal, you hear, clearing the stillness and quiet of the low munching-up, (clears throat) and sitting at the table adjacent to you guys, completely unnoticed in his entry, is Seeker Asum, arms crossed.
Laura: Motherfucker, you are sneaky! I need to talk to you.
Travis: We are not cool right now.
Matt: "Well, obviously not. That's why I'm here to have a conversation with the rest of you. Please continue to eat. I don't mean to disturb you."
Orion: Oh, very well.
Laura: Help yourself to a frittata.
Matt: "I've already eaten, but I appreciate the offer."
Orion: Try this hakuna frittata. It's really good!
Travis: Hakuna matata?
Laura: Let him talk.
Matt: "What a wonderful meal. Well, things have certainly gotten sticky, haven't they? Well, first and foremost, I would like to thank you, Keyleth, for clearing my head. Lord Briarwood had locked me into some form of mental charm during my attempt to aid Vax--"
Marisha: I told you it worked! Sorry, I'm a little defensive right now. Continue.
Matt: "That's all right. Things are a bit mixed up. It's hard to explain; let's just say I have been clouded in my judgment for the past few days until you cleansed me. I'm sorry to uphold the charade back in the palace."
Liam: Apologies are mine, I think. I believe you had some sort of plan, and I thought I knew better, and for that I'm sorry.
Matt: "I cannot say that is untrue. But I accept your apology."
Laura: Can I roll for insight?
Matt: You may.
Liam: Roll high!
Laura: I know! That was a shit roll. Nine.
Matt: He's a hard person to gauge, anyway. You gathered over time that most of his work deals in a network of spies and the gathering of information across all of Tal'Dorei, so he is very well-trained to hide the essence of his true nature and the intent. Hard to read. But he seems pleasant as he's been, and given the circumstances. "Nevertheless, I accept your apology, and I apologize for having upheld the charade during the council meeting, but I had to keep up appearances so as not to cause any sort of stir at the time. I fear, based on my observations since, that our very own sovereign also fell to the same charm I did and has been clouded since the dinner the night before."
Laura: Shit! That makes sense.
Marisha: We were afraid of that.
Sam: He's fallen for that stuff before.
Matt: "He's been through quite a bit, and while he's a resolute and a very good man, I would say that he is predisposed to outer influence from those that are quite strong-willed."
Sam: And this is why you kept up our accusations against us in front of him?
Matt: "Under those conditions, the room filled with guards that were all intent against keeping you at bay. Should you have made any attempt to try and cleanse him as well during that time, I think you all would have wound up in prison. Or worse."
Marisha: So why didn't you want to show that you were also cleansed? What was the point of holding up the charade?
Matt: "Because when you're under this influence, to speak against the proposed ally of the charm is to draw a line. I wish to stay in his good graces because that would enable us a much better chance of getting you close enough to him to absolve him of this charm. If I was to reveal this instantaneously in the presence of the entire council, I fear that might have put me in the same court of disfavor as you and lost any future chance of expelling this influence."
Laura: Do you it's only Uriel, or do you think it's the rest of the council as well?
Matt: "Best I can gather, most of the council is not as well-- how do I put it? Not used to business with Vox Machina. Allura seems to be of clear mind, as she is very powerfully protected against such influences and did not have any immediate interaction with the Briarwoods during that dinner. I fear the intent was on the sovereign himself."
Sam: Wait, are you saying that the Briarwoods corrupted him?
Matt: "Same way they corrupted me."
Sam: During the dinner? While we were all sitting there?
Matt: "Apparently, it takes naught but a glance."
Laura: Oh shit! They could have gotten any of us.
Orion: Yes. They did. Me. It was rather inconvenient. I hate them. Sorry.
Matt: "I think we have something in common."
Sam: Aren't you deaf?
Liam: No, that was brief.
Orion: I mean, what?
Sam: Is that why you're talking so loud?
Orion: Yes. I was getting it back.
Matt: "There are a few options at our disposal. You could continue to work to clear your name, during his distraction southward, if you have some idea as to how we could get close enough to him to absolve him of this now, that would leave the risk of, should anything go poorly, being poked with many spear holes."
Laura: Is it possible to sneak into his room, and restore him without anybody knowing?
Matt: "If you're confident. That may be more of a mission for the quieter of your bunch, should they be a little more intelligent with their actions, going forward."
Orion: What about drawing him out to a luncheon or whatnot?
Matt: "I will say, based on recent circumstances, he is very careful and defensive."
Liam: I have fair chances of getting in, but no ability to cure him of any such thing.
Laura: What if Keyleth, who can do it, polymorphed into a fly or a very small creature, traveled on you, you snuck in, she popped out, did the thing. Money.
Sam: (laughs) Unless they're caught, in which case, you've got two of our members against the entire palace guard.
Laura: So then you go with them and Dimension Door out.
Sam: I didn't even want to face the little invisible thing downstairs!
Orion: Why don't we hold a special dinner?
Sam: He hates our fucking guts.
Travis: Why don't we let Seeker Asum finish?
Sam: Seeker Asum, in your opinion, is it safer to try and heal him or to try and clear our name through the traditional legal means?
Matt: "Honestly, I have no idea. I think this plan, if successful, is quite inspired. However, failure would probably end in the immediate incarceration and/or death of both individuals involved. Public execution does not befit the country-wide name of Vox Machina, if you were to fail. If you were to succeed, that would be the most direct route between two points."
Marisha: So are we in agreement that we have to clear Uriel's mind first?
Sam: No. No, the other option is to clear our names and not worry about clearing his mind.
Laura: Uriel, if he's got his mind controlled, it doesn't matter if we try to clear our names, he's going to find us guilty.
Sam: But during our trial, we will have a direct line of sight to him, we might be able to get through to him.
Liam: Does he still trust Allura?
Matt: "As far as I know, yes."
Travis: You know, if we kill the Briarwoods, is this even a point?
Sam: That's true. He doesn't trust Allura, she wasn't even allowed in the room to talk to us. There's definitely suspicion there, right?
Liam: He did. He did question her allegiances.
Matt: "If that's the case, then perhaps her current power is not as strong in the council when regarding you. But she is still a member of the council, should she not be immediately affiliated with you for her purposes. This is up to you. Whatever you choose to do, if it requires my aid, I will give it a day before I have to leave. My next intent is to head-- well, I wish to go past the eastern curtain set up by Whitestone into Wildemount. I have spent the better part of the past day since the cleansing seeking all records of the Briarwoods and their doings. There was a period of about eight years in which there is no public record of their goings-on. It appears that most records that deal with their involvement in Wildemount, and whatever homestead gave them their title, Lord and Lady Briarwood, has all been but erased. So I intend to go to the source, Wildemount itself, and research. This will take me some time, of course."
Orion: When do you plan on leaving?
Matt: "Sooner the better. I was thinking tomorrow."
Marisha: Is Percy here? Is Percy in the room?
Matt: Percy is not even here. Percy is down in the workshop.
Marisha: I go get Percy.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I was going to be at the door.
Marisha: Oh. I come around the corner, and I see Percy.
Matt: As you come around the corner, Percy is currently leaning up against the side of the wall, listening in to the conversation.
Marisha: Hey! I was looking for you. You want to come and actually join the conversation for once, instead of sitting outside the door and just listening to them? Because I really feel like this is going to be your time to input and maybe really help?
Taliesin: I don't feel like doing that. Oh. Lead on.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Seeker Asum, we have managed to capture and keep one of the coachmen. Down in our cell. Would he be safer in our hands, or within the castle walls?
Marisha: Percy and I walk in.
Travis: I'm fucking asking.
Matt: "Well, that depends. If you have strong defenses, and the enemy has no means of entering, then he will be safer here. The palace itself is a very well-protected area; however, there currently is an open invitation into the palace, and if the essence of our enemy is as I think it is, then they can enter whenever they like."
Travis: Never mind.
Liam: I think we're really choosing between two paths here. Either we stay in town and tinker and gamble, or we're runaways.
Sam: Runaways? No, we go to the Briarwoods--
Liam: That's what I'm talking about. The minute we leave, we're outlaws. They've told us not to go.
Orion: We can leave, we just cannot flee. We can travel as we see fit. We just need to let them know where we're going.
Liam: Yeah, but we can't tell them 'we're going to check out your associates'.
Travis: Yeah, we lie.
Marisha: Wait, what's the name of the town?
Sam: Whitestone?
Marisha: Not Whitestone. Oh, I thought he was saying he was going to go to their hometown.
Matt: He's going to Wildemount, the kingdom that they're originally from. The continent to the far east.
Marisha: He's not going to Whitestone. He's going to go to Wildemount, which is on another continent. If we go to another continent, it doesn't matter if we're fleeing or not. It's going to look like fleeing.
Travis: Why are you going to Wildemount, again?
Matt: "I'm trying to find as much information to incriminate them in case whatever you're attempting does not work."
Orion: Seeker, would you mind staying for a week or so before your venture? We need time to convince the council to let us leave without conflict and to procure particular items and things that we need. Very briefly. Would just take some time.
Matt: "I have already made arrangements for travel. I could try, but depends on what you need me here for."
Travis: What do we need him here for?
Orion: Ultimately, protection or a good ear.
Marisha: Do you genuinely think they're going to let us go with permission? We're not on their good side.
Laura: No, they're not. They're not going to let us go.
Liam: We're going to be outlaws. We have to clear ourselves by ending the charm on Uriel by finishing off Sylas.
Sam: Or by killing the Briarwoods, thus ending the charm.
Liam: Sylas Briarwood.
Matt: "So that would be a way to clear your name and clear his head."
Travis: Let's do that.
Sam: Percival--
Orion: What of eight days instead of two weeks? Oh, sorry.
Sam: Percival, what do you think we should do? Go seek revenge on your family and get some blood on our hands, Briarwood blood? Or do the sneaky thing and try to--
Laura: Please, we need your input.
Marisha: You know them better than anyone.
Taliesin: I really don't. I think we're here because I wasn't prepared.
Marisha: Can I do an insight check on him? See if he knows more than what he's saying?
Matt: Sure.
Marisha: 19.
Matt: You can go ahead and roll a d20.
Marisha: Is that a nine?
Taliesin: Nine.
Matt: Is there anything you're holding back?
Taliesin: Nope.
Matt: He seems clear as day, telling the honest truth.
Liam: I don't think we're here in this city to become lords and ladies serving Uriel, as good a man he is. I think Percival's our ally, and this is a grievous wrong done to him, and we can kill two birds with one stone.
Taliesin: I think we are in the situation we're in because we now know how much we don't know. How much I don't know. I'm not prepared. If we face them now, I'm going to get you all killed.
Orion: I agree. We need proper preparation. Percy, I'm pretty sure you have a good background on vampires and what-have-you, as do I, as I've researched them in the last couple of days. There's other things that we should research, as well, and probably arm ourselves for that kind of conflict, if it comes to it. Quite frankly, I have a feeling if it's the whole town we're dealing with, we need to find out how many innocents there are to save, and if the number is low enough, we can fly in with an army ourselves, which would take some time. The Draconian Knights. I am an ambassador to Draconia, officially, after all the assistance I've sent, in giving them the Wheel of Mending, and proving my point.
Laura: You gave them the Wheel?
Orion: No, I showed it to them, proving that my quest was true, which they gave me full ambassadorship, which means that, if harm comes to a Stormwind, harm comes to all of Draconia. And a town full of vampires and liches--
Laura: I didn't know we had a whole army at our disposal. That's wonderful to hear.
Orion: If worse comes to worst.
Liam: Started on the bottom, now we're here.
Sam: Diplomatic immunity.
Orion: Even then, our relations must be strong with Emon. We need their allyship, as well. Draconia will not go into things alone. We need a union.
Marisha: I agree. While we're not serving Uriel, that's not our purpose, I also don't want to leave an enemy of the state. That's not good for me, for what I want.
Orion: I go up to Jarett. Eight days. What do you think of eight days?
Marisha: And what, go with Jarett? Not Jarett, Asum.
Sam: He's not even going where we would be going. We would be going to Whitestone, right? That's where the Briarwoods are.
Liam: But Keyleth, Uriel is the law, and the law is now corrupt.
Marisha: Then why don't we save his mind before we go?
Laura: Here's the thing. He's going to find out stuff about the Briarwoods. What's the fucking point of him going if we're just going to go attack the Briarwoods before we know what he knows? We need to let him go, find out his shit, take care of Uriel, wait until he gets back, go take out the Briarwoods--
Orion: As Vex is saying this, Tiberius is getting a half-chub.
Travis: A what?
Laura: A what?
Taliesin: Well, that's just weird.
Orion: You can't see it because it's inside.
Liam: Yes, but you said it out loud.
Matt: Anyway.
Orion: I'm just saying.
Sam: It's a strategy boner?
Liam: It's a strategy chub, all right.
Taliesin: I'm still weirded out.
Marisha: You've got to give context to those things, man.
Liam: It's an odd choice of words, but now 30 seconds later, I see what you mean
Orion: Sorry. Her brain. That's what I'm talking about.
Matt: Asum says, "My getting to Wildemount is not easy, nor is it safe. I cannot linger for long. Maybe a few days."
Taliesin: How soon will you return?
Matt: "That depends on if I even return. Every spy I've sent to seek information on the Briarwoods or to Whitestone has not come back."
Orion: (ripping noises) I'll give him two strips of Scroll of Telescription. If any harm falls upon you, write on this. I explain what it does.
Matt: Okay. How many of those do you have left, by the way?
Orion: I have 30 tickets left, so 28 now.
Liam: I have another idea. Uriel said that-- he was resistant, but he said that he would bring me in to have his people check me out. Check out my story. What if Keyleth and Scanlan rode in my pockets--
Sam: I'm not that small.
Laura: As roaches.
Liam: You're pretty small. Just as mice.
Laura: Or bugs. Roly-polies!
Liam: Magic user's choice. Can you cast magic when you're transformed?
Sam: No.
Laura: So they'd have to pop out. Can you shrink yourself and still do magic teeny-tiny?
Sam: Are you asking me?
Laura: Either of you.
Sam: No, but I can shit on things. Yes?
Orion: Can you give the Seeker an inspiration before he goes on an adventure?
Sam: It could last him 20 minutes, yes. Get him to the docks, maybe.
Laura: Seeker, what do you think? What was your goal of coming here?
Travis: Yeah, do you want us to come with you or what?
Matt: "My journey requires the utmost of silence, speed, stealth, and I mean no offense to your entourage, but I think I can do this alone, and should. However, this journey may take me two weeks, a month, many months-- I do not know. I'm doing this just in case whatever you're choosing to do fails. At least, if Vox Machina falls in this, I can come back with proof enough to try, and once the army has been gathered, perhaps we can rally all of Emon against Whitestone."
Travis: If you die, can you write a letter and sign your name saying that we were right, you were wrong, you were full of shit, the Briarwoods are assholes--
Orion: But a lot more eloquently than that.
Travis: Or not.
Matt: "I can try my best."
Laura: That would be lovely.
Marisha: I go up to his arm, and I Druidcraft a wooden armband. Make it look cool. And put that on him.
Sam: Onto Tiberius?
Marisha: No, onto Asum. Now I can scry through that. That way I can at least check in on you every once in a while. If you're okay with that?
Sam: I could've shat on him and had the same effect.
Matt: Make a persuasion roll.
Laura: What about being invisible? Can you cast spells while you're invisible?
Orion: Only with Greater Invisibility, you can.
Marisha: 21.
Sam: We've always sought out the path of the most glory, and I think that that is the Briarwoods. Going into a giant, vampire-lich-ridden castle and killing two evil bastards amid their army of protectors is the coolest thing we could ever do.
Laura: It's super-duper cool. Here's the thing it's not going to be just two, I don't think. It's going to be an entire town of people that they've controlled.
Sam: You think we can get into Sovereign Uriel without anyone detecting magic on us? He's got clerics all round him--
Laura: Yeah, but Seeker Asum knows all the ins and outs of the palace.
Liam: He's leaving town tomorrow.
Laura: We'd have to do it stat, but he knows how to get in.
Marisha: He did say it was an inspired idea. His words.
Matt: "Regardless, you have to make a choice soon. I cannot dilly-dally. I'll take your band, yes." He takes the wooden band and puts it around his arm and says, "If this will put you at ease, I'll take it."
Marisha: Don't worry. I won't abuse it, I promise. Could you potentially help us with sneaking in the castle?
Matt: "I could get you in the door, but I could not escort you to that room. That would put myself in extreme danger and the entirety of our mission."
Laura: Could you distract people?
Matt: (laughs) "I can do that quite well, yes."
Sam: We can get there, but something tells me we're still going to be fighting a big fight in a palace. I'd rather fight that big fight in the Briarwoods'.
Liam: Scanlan and I are in agreement, and here's the problem. If things go south in Uriel's palace, we are then forced to fight against people who are good and true, or give up and go to jail, which sucks.
Sam: But in the Briarwoods', we can kill every motherfucker in that place.
Orion: There are a number of innocents that we need to figure out, still.
Marisha: What if we talk to Allura?
Sam: You killed an old lady!
Orion: She attacked us! And I will not back down from that decision.
Sam: She did have an old lady smell.
Travis: All right. Can we just vote on something, please? Since Percy's being oh-so-quiet about all this.
Marisha: Percy is being very quiet about this.
Travis: Are you sure you have nothing to say?
Laura: It's fucking your family. It's the people that attacked your family. Do you have no contribution to this?
Taliesin: I still feel I owe everybody an apology. I still feel terrible about dragging you all into this and putting you in danger.
Laura: We're choosing to do it.
Matt: "Vengeance." A voice whispers in your ear, Percy. No one hears this. "Vengeance."
Taliesin: If you're with me, we can be prepared for them this time. We know enough to prepare ourselves, we can have ourselves ready this time.
Orion: How many days do we have? I would like eight days to prepare.
Marisha: Can I see if he looks like shaken or fucked up at all?
Matt: I mean, he looks shaken and fucked up, yeah. He's obviously had a horrible few days.
Taliesin: I think a week to prepare is reasonable.
Laura: And then leave.
Taliesin: And then we leave. We leave quietly.
Marisha: Wait, we're leaving to Whitestone?
Travis: Yes.
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: I've been avoiding it for too long, and now I know too much.
Liam: The law of this land is compromised. Percival, I agree with you. I think this is the right choice.
Travis: All in favor, say aye.
All - orion: Aye.
Travis: All opposed, say nay. Nice.
Matt: "Then it is settled. I'll be on my way."
Laura: Wait! Before you go, could I talk to you?
Matt: "Certainly."
Laura: Were you going to say anything else? Because I'll talk to you in private.
Matt: "Three days and I'll be off on my side of the mission. Very well."
Laura: I'll follow you out.
Matt: Yes, and he walks out, walks with you.
Taliesin: Hold on, I'm going to hold you before you go. I just wanted to say, I'm so sorry and thank you. And thank you for doing this for me. I fear my temper before this weight is lifted from my heart. I do not wish to lose myself like that again, and I am so sorry for everything I've done.
Orion: Tiberius puts his hand on Percy's shoulder, and go, I'm sorry for the tragedy which is your family, and what these Briarwoods have befallen to them, and I will promise you, I will do my best to have you give that final blow from that barrel to the names assigned to them. But now it is a far dangerous situation, as you very well know.
Taliesin: I will do my best to maintain myself. I apologize.
Matt: And as you all scatter, Percy, as you walk out, the same voice creeps into your ear, "Yes." Now, as you step out with Seeker Asum, who now has a bit of haste to his step, arms crossed, looking around. "So you wish to speak with me?"
Laura: Yes, I do. You're a ranger.
Matt: "I am."
Laura: You're very sneaky.
Matt: "I can be."
Laura: I've only ever seen people like thieves, like my brother, do things like you've done. Can you teach me anything that you know to help me maybe be a little more stealthy, as well?
Matt: (sighs) "We'll go over what you know, and perhaps there are a few tricks that I can teach you in the three days I have. I can't guarantee that it'll be extremely changing, as that's a very short time to train over what I've learned over a lifetime, but I can certainly attempt."
Laura: I appreciate it.
Matt: "I require your concentration for those days, though, before I leave."
Laura: Utmost.
Matt: "All right. Meet me at the morrow, crack of dawn. I'll be at the front of your keep."
Laura: Okay.
Matt: "Very well." And he heads off, outside of the keep. The rest of you, what are you doing?
Orion: I go to my laboratory.
Marisha: What time is it?
Matt: About 3 00, 4 00 in the afternoon now.
Travis: That temple of Sarenrae is in the city.
Matt: It's part of the keep, yeah. Oh, you mean the actual temple you went to? That is inside the city, yes. You can go into the city; you just can't get to the Cloudtop District.
Orion: Use the earring real quick. I'm going to write a quick letter. If anybody goes shopping, let me know.
Matt: Tiberius loves shopping.
Laura: He really, really does.
Matt: All right, we'll go ahead and take a quick break. We'll be back in five minutes. Keep it a stringent break, guys.
Liam: So errands will happen after that break? Because I have some errands that I want to do.
Matt: Yes. We'll try to keep the errands pretty concise so we can keep on schedule, yeah, so it's like, use this break to conjecture exactly what you want to do. All right, guys, we'll see you back here in five minutes. [break]
Matt: Welcome back. So to try and expedite this, over the next period of time you guys want to take to prepare, what are you going to do? Percy.
Taliesin: I'm going to finish up those things that we talked about earlier, spend some time making some ammunition, and I'm going to attempt to build what we were talking about earlier.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a tinkering check for your ammunition.
Marisha: What we were talking about? Can I help him with that? Can I assist him?
Matt: I would say the tinkering, the mechanisms involved, would be so far beyond your understanding as a druid. Even just metalwork in general. You can cheer him on, but would not be able to assist him with it.
Marisha: Go Percy, go! That's pretty good.
Taliesin: 24.
Matt: 24? Okay. You manage to produce 25 rounds for your Pepperbox and ten rounds for the Bad News.
Laura: Ooh, that's good.
Marisha: You still have inspiration from Scanlan?
Taliesin: No, I used that.
Matt: Used that to repair his Pepperbox. Roll for the secondary construction. Smoke bombs.
Taliesin: Okay. 11.
Matt: 11. You take a better part of two days attempting to get these to work, and most of your materials are ruined, unfortunately. You manage to come out with it with, and I want you to write this down, "smoke bomb, question mark." It may function. We will see upon use. But you have one at your disposal that is questionable. However, for the cost of the ammunition and the cost of the smoke bomb's construction, already that comes to about, I'd say 75 gold pieces, so mark that off. And you're attempting to make, you're attempting to make, based on what you told me, an Archimedes death ray.
Taliesin: They're not hard. I say that as, like, knowing my actual skill level, I could make one.
Matt: You could. To be functional with the materials that are at your disposal, it's going to be very large and hard to move.
Marisha: We were talking about making it collapsible.
Taliesin: I could make a collapsible one, where it's basically a one-third dodecahedron, like an observatory.
Matt: You spend the remainder of this week of preparation. Go ahead and roll your tinkering check. This is going to cost you in materials.
Orion: Wait, hold on, can I pause real quick? You don't need to do this if you want to make more ammo and other stuff. I can do this without you making this and spending the rest of the time, if you want to make other stuff. Option.
Matt: What do you want to do?
Taliesin: Story-wise it's more amusing.
Matt: Okay, go for it. All right, so. The actual materials for this--
Taliesin: It's copper.
Matt: I know, it's copper, but the actual dodecahedron that's involved, the mirrors, the lenses, the whole thing? In order to be of the scale and quality to even make it even remotely functional, all of it for the extremely high quality and some of it custom-made within the first couple days within this, with a rush order. I'd say the total cost is going to come to about 1,200 gold pieces.
Marisha: I'll pitch in for that. How much do you have?
Taliesin: At this point I have less than 100 gold.
Marisha: You have less than 100 gold? I'll pay for it in full.
Orion: What is the diameter of this?
Matt: The actual focal lens is about this big. The whole construct can be carried by two people.
Taliesin: But it will fold.
Orion: I was just going to say, what's the radius of the actual thing's lens?
Matt: Of the lens itself? This is the radius of the lens. I mean, even when it's collapsed, it can be carried by one person, but it's still a heavy mechanism.
Orion: So it's only one foot? Two feet? Three feet?
Matt: I'd say it's about two and a half feet in diameter.
Orion: Are you sure you want to do that?
Matt: He's already agreed. Go ahead and roll.
Marisha: Why? It's fine. This is what we were talking about.
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: 22. Through the materials and the construct of it, you get partway through the final stages of it, and as you're tightening one of the sections, all of a sudden there's a (cracking) sound. Your whole body freezes as you glance over. the lens itself has a giant crack through it.
Taliesin: There shouldn't be a glass piece-- aw, man.
Matt: For the construct for this one, there was a focusing lens that is part of what the initial blast, otherwise there wouldn't be a point of actually projecting a ray from.
Orion: I thought they were all mirrors.
Matt: There's all different sorts of construction based on. This one's the one we're going on here, or if you can say the center of it is a gem, but regardless, the tinkering roll was not high enough to construct the device. Sorry.
Marisha: The whole thing's wasted? Can we try and repair the crack?
Matt: It's not something you can repair. The entire piece is constructed from a solid piece.
Taliesin: What, could we put it on the Mending Wheel?
Matt: You could attempt to.
Orion: (grunting) Let's see. Okay. (clicking noise)
Travis: I want to go to the store. I would like to get a shovel and a pickaxe.
Orion: You going to Gilmore's? We're going to Gilmore's, too. We could go together if you're doing that.
Travis: I don't give a fuck where we go. Just a shovel and a pickaxe.
Matt: Pickaxe... comes to four gold pieces for the two of those. You got them. Make a secondary tinkering check.
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: 22. This time you go back and as you're tightening it, the actual metal housing of the device ends up bending in a way that both cracks the gem and causes the frame itself to be dented to the point where the beam will be imperfect. This is a very hard thing that you've come up with in your mind that has not been constructed before, and the level of difficulty to create this is very difficult. It does not cost you additional money, thanks to the Mending Wheel, but right now the entire device looks like to continue, it's going to take more time and money to construct it.
Taliesin: (sighs) I can always use this for spare parts for other things.
Laura: You're already 1,200 in? How much more would you have to put in?
Matt: I'd say about half the cost. An additional 600.
Marisha: And how many more days?
Matt: Two more days.
Marisha: How many more days do we have?
Matt: You agreed upon eight, so we'd be pushing about seven, then.
Taliesin: I've already built a smoke bomb and some rounds of bullets. All right, I'll put a little more time in this. Can I get some inspiration for this, too, if that would be possible?
Liam: Music, you mean?
Marisha: There's nothing I can do to help him?
Matt: Unfortunately-- what's your intellect?
Marisha: My intellect? I've got plus three.
Sam: (singing) Here comes the sun--
All: (singing) It's all right. (vocalizing)
Liam: (singing) Kill the vampire.
Marisha: Come on, come on.
Taliesin: Come on, come on.
Marisha: Percy roll. Come on.
Taliesin: 23?
Matt: Working on the device a third time, you get it right to the point where you think it could work and you go to set it up, and as you do, you find that the light focuses in a way that actually slowly melts the copper on the outside of the housing of the device, and it begins to melt onto itself, and you have to pull it out of the light. This design is beyond your grasp right now. You're inventing something that takes quite a lot of time to eventually perfect.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm going to put these away for a later time, and if I have one more day, I would like to work on--
Marisha: Maybe a version of it that is not collapsible that we can at least mount?
Taliesin: We've got it taken care of.
Matt: That's been your guys' week.
Taliesin: That's my week, okay.
Matt: Okay. You bought your pickaxe and your shovel. Cool. Vex, what are you doing?
Laura: I'm training.
Matt: You're training, okay.
Liam: All right. I want to be brief. I have four things I want to do, but I'll be very brief. I promise. Okay, so first thing I want to do is I think at some point, I heard Tiberius talking about wooden stakes and vampires. So I want to go buy about ten wooden stakes.
Orion: I give him extra. Get me 20.
Liam: I'm going shopping.
Laura: Yes, get me some holy arrows.
Liam: Can I get a loaner on that? I've got about 230 gold.
Travis: I thought you said you were going to be brief. (laughs)
Liam: On my own.
Marisha: I thought we got a bit of an allowance.
Liam: It's a week, so I get some gold from these people and I go and I don't even know what they said. I'm getting ten wooden stakes for myself.
Matt: 20, technically, because Tiberius requested ten. Those will cost you a total of two gold.
Liam: That's what I thought. And what did you want?
Laura: I wanted some holy arrows.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: Or holy water. Try to get some holy water. Holy oil.
Liam: I'll get to that. Investigation, you say? That is a 13.
Matt: 13. Asking around the town  holy arrows, that is an enchantment. They're pricey and they don't appear to be anywhere in the major shops, even shops like Gilmore's, that they specialize in. It's usually a special order-type thing. Holy water flasks can be purchased at 20 gold apiece.
Liam: I'll get to that. All right, so we got wood. That was two gold, you said. All right, minus two. The next thing I want to do is go to the temple of Sarenrae and get my sister's holy oil for her. How much is that?
Matt: Holy oil? As opposed to the holy water?
Liam: I'll take both, if you've got it.
Matt: Well, holy oil is a more expensive version. Holy water is a one-use. Holy oil can be applied to a weapon.
Liam: Holy oil.
Orion: How much do the stakes weigh? Like each stake?
Matt: A cluster of ten, if that's what you wanted, would weigh about five pounds. But they're relatively light.
Orion: Tell him that he bought me 20 more.
Sam: Tell him that he bought you?
Liam: 40 stakes, four gold. Totally happened. Then I went to the temple of Sarenrae and I got two vials of holy oil. One for my sister, one for me.
Matt: Those are 100 gold apiece.
Liam: Okay. Got it. I can't. Oh, you gave me gold. I'll get four vials of that.
Laura: Yeah, I gave him gold to do it.
Liam: We'll work that out, I promise. I ask if the cleric who helped bring Pike back to life is here.
Matt: Yeah, Tristan is here.
Liam: Jesus, how do you do that?
Matt: Because I have to.
Liam: When I find him I say, you remember my friend Pike? You remember me?
Matt: "Yes, I inspected you. Is that healing well, by the way?" He inspects the wounds on the side of your neck.
Liam: It is. I'm grateful. I need a keepsake of your deity. [no audio]
Matt: And he steps away, goes back, disappears for a minute, comes back and he's holding in a chain around his neck-- It's seen some years of use, but still clean and very well kept, an identical holy symbol of Sarenrae as the one that Pike keeps around her neck. He hands it over and puts it over your head. "May she keep you safe and bring your soul to redemption."
Liam: It reminds me of my friend.
Matt: "As it should." Pats you on the cheek. "As it should."
Liam: All right, so chore number two down. I would like to go to Uriel's temple and ask the guards if anyone has seen my belt, Simon.
Matt: You are stopped at the edge of the Cloudtop District. The guards see you as you approach and block the doorway and say, "We're sorry, but Vox Machina has been given no passage into the Cloudtop District at this time."
Liam: I understand. I don't mean to go in. I understand that we caused a lot of trouble, and I am very sorry, and I don't mean to be any further trouble. There is a belt that I left inside.
Matt: "That's certainly unfortunate, isn't it?"
Liam: Have you seen a snake called Simon? Or any snake?
Matt: Both the guards look at each other and laugh for a second. "Piss off."
Liam: Okay. Chore number four. (laughter)
Liam: I go back. I give everybody their things. I would like to spend the rest of the week, because I am ready, hanging out across the road from the butcher's house that Kynan ran from, and if there are any youths his age who go there to shop, I would like to ask as they leave if they have any idea where he's gone.
Matt: Okay. Make a perception check.
Liam: Perception check. Oh, that's a seven. Thought it was a one. (laughs) That is a 17.
Matt: 17. Okay. Keeping an eye out, you do eventually come across a boy that looks about his age. Late teens, maybe early twenties. Comes by and gathers a little bit of meat and rushes off and you stop him.
Liam: Excuse me, I'm sorry to take you away from your day. I'm sorry, what is your name?
Matt: "Jameson."
Liam: Jameson.
Matt: "Yeah, can I help you? I've really got to get home with this."
Liam: I understand, I'll just take a second of your time. I owe a boy who lives here named Kynan, I owe him a few silver and I want to see that he gets it. Is he in town?
Matt: Make a deception check.
Liam: I'll use the meteorite. That's a 15.
Matt: 15, gives you a look over and goes, "I'm certain you've given him silver, but Kynan's been gone for the better part of a week."
Liam: Where would he have gone?
Matt: "I don't know. He just told us all he was off to find his destiny or some sort of bullshit like that. He's always had his head in the clouds, that one."
Liam: I agree. He ever talked about where he was going, how he meant to go about doing it?
Matt: "No, kept to himself mostly. Sorry, I wish I could be more of a service. If I see him, where should I send him?" (clattering)
Liam: I don't know who that guy is. If you see him, tell him that V. is looking for him at Greyskull Keep.
Matt: "Well, I'll pass that along."
Liam: Thank you.
Matt: "Good day," and he hurries off to continue with his errand.
Liam: Are you all right, old man?
Travis: (old-man voice) I'm fine. It's my knee. (laughter)
Matt: Is that your last errand?
Liam: That's it.
Matt: Scanlan.
Sam: I go to Gilmore's. Are we near Gilmore's?
Matt: Yeah, Gilmore's in the city. He's not in the Cloudtop, so you have access to him still.
Sam: I want to know if such a thing exists, and if so, how much. A potion or a scroll that could invoke either Hallow or Spirit Guardians.
Taliesin: Say what?
Sam: Spirit Guardians is four. Hallow is five.
Matt: Here we go. Okay. Asking around, there are no potions for it, but there is a Scroll of Hallow available, and I will say that comes to roughly 6,000 gold pieces for the Scroll of Hallow.
Marisha: It's how much?
Matt: 6,000 for the Hallow Scroll. And for the Spirit Guardian, you said it was? 4th-level?
Sam: 4th-level.
Matt: That one is 2,000 gold.
Laura: What does that do?
Sam: Spirit Guardians would make some beings around us.
Matt: Spirit Guardians is level three, actually, not level four. That makes it a lot cheaper. That is 600 gold.
Sam: It scares evil things away. It's like a Pike-y thing.
Laura: Do it.
Sam: Can I cast that if I have a scroll?
Matt: If you have a scroll you can, yeah. It has a chance of failing.
Marisha: Yeah, you have to have magic.
Sam: How much did you say?
Matt: 600 gold pieces.
Sam: I'll buy one of those.
Matt: There's only one available. So you mark that down.
Sam: Okay. Yes, I will. I would also like to find a smithy of some sort and make me a little metal choker of chainmail.
Matt: Okay, remembering that you have spoken to Karin before, which is the renowned custom blacksmith in Emon, you speak with her. A chainmail half coif around the neck there is relatively inexpensive. It's a partial piece of armor. She looks at some scrap chainmail on the side and is like: "I'd be more than happy to use that for it. It shouldn't me take more than an hour, two maybe at most."
Laura: Get one for everyone.
Travis: I think they can bite besides the neck, right?
Laura: Yeah, technically, but still!
Sam: (laughs) Sure, I'll get eight of them, or seven of them.
Matt: Okay. (laughs) All right.
Sam: How much are they?
Matt: Seven of those. I'd say for the whole seven it'd put you at 100 gold, because it's custom orders. Seven of those.
Liam: What are they?
Sam: Chainmail chokers
Marisha: Chainmail dickies.
Travis: Oh wait, do you have one more?
Sam: And a small one for my dick. (laughter)
Matt: All righty.
Sam: A tiny one.
Matt: She awkwardly judges and turns that request down. She's uncomfortable with that.
Sam: Then I bow and leave.
Matt: Okay. So you got that. Yes. Just a second there, Tiberius.
Liam: I go to Gilmore's Glorious Goods and ask at the front door if Gilmore is there.
Matt: Gilmore, unfortunately, is in Westruun currently. Still overseeing the construction of his expansion there.
Liam: Understood. Who's the most knowledgeable person next to Gilmore in this store right now?
Matt: That would be... I can't find my updated NPC sheet. Do you remember what her name was?
Marisha: Sherri.
Matt: Sherri, thank you. I was like, Shelby? No. Sherri. Sherri is there greeting you. "That would probably be me."
Liam: Oh, hi. You remember me. I have a very important question. I won't take up much of your time. I pull out a small metal skull cap. Dented in a few places, rusted a bit, from the Underdark. What can you tell me about this?
Matt: She takes it. "If you're requesting identification of a magical item, that is a service we charge."
Liam: Sis, can I borrow some money?
Laura: How much do you need?
Liam: How much would that require?
Matt: "125 gold pieces per enchantment identified."
Liam: Done.
Matt: "All right."
Laura: Talk her down.
Matt: She takes it. She steps inside, sets it on the counter. She starts going through her books and starts looking at it and holding it for a second and doing a full inspection of it. "Based on the enchantment on this device, it's very crude in construction and the enchantment is in an arcane offshoot of language I'm not very familiar with, but it appears it is a guard from some sort of a mental influence. If worn, it would give you a stronger resistance against things that would attempt to peer into your mind."
Liam: Are we talking magic?
Matt: "Yes." So essentially what it would do is it would give you advantage on wisdom saving throws against magic spells.
Liam: Against?
Matt: It would give you advantage on wisdom saving throws against magical effects.
Liam: That's fucking brilliant. I hand her the gold and say, Scanlan sends his regards.
Matt: She noticeably blushes and goes, "Well, send mine back if you wouldn't mind. I've got work to do." And she rushes off.
Liam: Thank you.
Matt: All right. Now, Tiberius.
Sam: 16 errands.
Orion: I only have eight. Just kidding, no. The real quick one is going to the Temple of Sarenrae to pick up a canteen.
Matt: Okay. Did you pay for it already? You paid up front. Okay. So you get the canteen, the explanation is: the enchantment of the actual water creation itself is separate than the holy enchantment that has been attached to it. The holy enchantment is not very powerful because it is an enchanted item. How it functions is the first burst per day that you use of the water does an additional 1d6 radiant damage. That's it. But any additional after that is just water. Basically, whatever water is immediately contained within it at the start of the day is considered blessed. Once that's expelled, all the rest that it creates-- because it's pulling it out of the elemental plane of water; that's how it's continuously projecting it. The rest of it runs straight through, so it doesn't have a chance to even absorb the blessing.
Orion: Gotcha. Okay, cool. Second thing. I drop off my Swallow, or I'll call it the surge blade, and to have that enchanted on both ends.
Matt: With?
Orion: One side fire, the other side water. So however many mages I have to hire for that to happen in ten days, I think we talked about it being eight days or something like that? Or was that only one side?
Matt: (laughs) So what enchantment do you want? Do you want to just do an additional-- What do you want it to be?
Orion: I just want it to be a magical weapon.
Matt: Just a magical weapon? Okay, just a general plus-one magical weapon. Okay. That would take about-- let me double-check the rarity here.
Sam: In the meantime, check out those Critical Role keychains available on Geek and Sundry. (laughter)
Matt: That would run you approximately 700 gold to create it as a plus-one magical item. Would take one mage a week to do it.
Orion: Okay. So I'll do that.
Matt: Okay, so for the week it takes, you pay 700 gold pieces. Your quarterstaff with a couple of daggers tied to the end is now considered a plus-one magical weapon. (laughter)
Orion: I stop at Gilmore's and I drop off my Ring of Protection. And pay whatever that is to add a plus-one to make it instead of a minor, an actual Ring of Protection.
Matt: Unfortunately, the thing is, an enchantment cannot be progressively enhanced. You would have to disenchant and then re-enchant the entire thing.
Orion: I thought Gilmore said they could do that there, before. That's why I was going to cough up the green for the Gil, as it were.
Matt: No. They can enchant the item with it, but it would be the cost of basically re-enchanting the item.
Orion: How much would that be?
Matt: That would cost approximately 25,000 gold pieces.
Sam: Oh jeez.
Matt: And it would take the better part of a year. A plus-two Ring of Protection is a very powerful item.
Sam: It's worth it. It's a good investment.
Matt: That you even acquired one earlier was great luck.
Orion: How about buffing the ring of source spelling--
Matt: The Ring of Spell Storing?
Sam: The thing that I had that I still want. That one.
Matt: The Ring of Spell Storing? That's its enchantment. There is no more powerful version of the Ring of Spell Storing. If you wanted to attempt to do that yourself on your own time, you could. That will cost you upward 60,000 gold pieces and about a year.
Orion: No, not right now.
Laura: How about we stick to the level we're at?
Orion: I didn't know all that stuff was going to be that way. That's why I asked.
Liam: How do you learn if you don't ask?
Matt: It's good to ask these things.
Orion: (laughs) So okay. While the days are going, I want to roll for animal handling to teach Lockheed stuff, which is every morning, whatever.
Matt: I'll say throughout the week, 'cause you've taught Lockheed a lot of things back to back. You can't cram everything in there in the three to four days and like: "You learn everything!" Because you've already taught Lockheed one thing this week. Roll for a second thing you want to teach Lockheed.
Orion: Like, with advantage? I'm just having fun.
Matt: Sure, I'll give you advantage on that.
Orion: That's fine, that's fine. I'll take that. That's 17.
Matt: Roll advantage. Go for it.
Orion: 17.
Travis: For the sake of brevity, can I roll one beard check?
Matt: Yeah. You can roll several beard checks.
Travis: 43.
Matt: 43. It starts filling in.
Travis: 81.
Matt: Nope.
Travis: 86.
Liam: Aw, come on Grog.
Travis: 16.
Matt: 16.
Travis: 68, 19. 58.
Matt: Okay. So by the time the week comes to an end, the other side of your beard has finally filled in and you are back to a full beard, Grog.
Laura: Good job, Grog.
Matt: So yeah, that succeeds. It takes you a few days to get it though, but what do you want to teach Lockheed?
Orion: I want to teach him to be quiet.
Matt: A very important thing to teach a creature. So Lockheed has learned to be quiet. Good. Anything else?
Orion: Yes. I got that, that. Throughout the days, I'm going to go all the shops and see how many glass mirrors-- I'm looking for mirrors, just all kinds of mirrors, every size.
Matt: There are plenty of mirrors out there. There are general stores that sell them all over.
Orion: I'm looking for five-by-five to ten-by-ten size mirrors.
Sam: Feet?!
Orion: Yeah. No, inches.
Matt: Okay. I misunderstood. Yeah. You could've had them custom made if they weren't out there, but they have mirrors of that size available.
Orion: I need about 1,500 of them. Can I get 1,500? How many can I get?
Matt: There aren't that many mirrors in the city.
Orion: Okay. All of them.
Sam: You know, if you hold two next to each other there looks like there's a million of them.
Orion: You know what, that's true.
Matt: They're five gold apiece, and of what is currently available for purchase, you may be able to acquire about 35 mirrors, and you'll clean out most of the places that will stop selling them to you.
Liam: That's cutting-edge technology in this day and age.
Orion: How many, if I laid them out on a flat surface, how many-- (laughs) How many feet would that cover?
Liam: Well, two per foot, Tibs. They're five inches apiece, right? You can fit two in a foot. So you just bought 35, so that's about--
Laura: 17 feet! 17 whole feet of mirrors!
Sam: If you're doing a square, it's three feet by three feet.
Matt: Yeah, four by four. So there you go. Four by four.
Orion: I'll take all that. How much is that?
Matt: Okay. 35 times five. So we're looking at 175 gold.
Orion: Done. And then, for timeline stuff, I'm going to do as much as I can to start enchanting my bolts, and I'm going to go work with Keyleth on stuff.
Matt: Keyleth's been working with Percy this whole time.
Marisha: The whole time?
Matt: It's taken the entire week for him, you said you were assisting him.
Marisha: No, you said I couldn't assist him. I had no intelligence to assist him.
Matt: I thought you said you were still going to help cheer him on. Okay, then no worries. Then yeah, you're available.
Orion: I'm going to try to make as many sleep bolts as I can. But the other thing with Keyleth is I would like to enchant a bolt that is a smoke screen, but it consists of holy water. So I use a pour of the day from the canteen and use that as a mist instead of a smoke.
Matt: The enchantment of an arrow to do that is the use of a Fog spell. There is no way to infuse a Fog spell with holy water.
Marisha: That's what I was saying. I don't know if you can do holy water. I can do a Fog spell.
Orion: Can we infuse a Fog spell with a Sleep spell?
Matt: No.
Orion: Can we try super hard?
Matt: Sure. Make a roll.
Orion: God damn it. Okay.
Marisha: Like, the best I could possibly do is maybe take one of these holy water things.
Orion: What am I rolling?
Matt: Plus arcana.
Travis: Do you think it matters? No.
Orion: 24.
Matt: 24. Okay. After spending approximately 500 gold in materials, the enchantment fails, both spells fizzled. You lost 500 gold. But now you know. Probably can't combine two spells into a single enchantment.
Liam: And knowing is half the battle.
Orion: Don't worry, it came out of my pocket.
Sam: I've got fog.
Orion: Okay.
Travis: How about you get nothing else, and we move on?
Orion: Last thing.
Travis: No last thing.
Orion: I stop at Allura's.
Matt: You go towards the Cloudtop District, and the guards stop you again.
Orion: I remember that as I walk up, and I go back to Greyskull Keep.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Oh wait, I don't do that.
Orion: Oh wait, I don't do that.
Marisha: #OrionAcaba.
Orion: I realize what I'm doing, and I stop.
Liam: Also. This will just take ten seconds, at some point in the week, when Keyleth is taking a walk, I go into her garden, and I clip one flower, and I take it.
Matt: How many sleep bolts?
Liam: Go sleep in your money.
Orion: You said I could do that.
Taliesin: You're busy this week.
Sam: Can he get back to the keep and we've all left four days ago? (laughter)
Orion: Carrying groceries in, look, guys  hoagie stuff!
Sam: Dear Tiberius. We left.
Laura: We got really bored and we left.
Matt: Okay, I will say for each arrow, it will cost you 600 gold and will take you six days to do, per arrow.
Laura: Six days per arrow?
Matt: Yes. It's one day per 100 gold of an enchantment. Which is even me making it higher than the book says. It should take you four times that.
Orion: Cool. Can it cost more if I hire a mage?
Laura: (screams)
Matt: You want to hire a mage?
Marisha: I need to do shit, too. I can't be everyone's bitch.
Matt: So three and a half days and it cost you 1,200 gold for a single sleep bolt.
Orion: Sweet. And I do two of those. And I'm broke.
Liam: He's spent people, he's spent.
Matt: Okay, so you've done all of your shopping in one day and spent the rest of the week doing those. All right, so there we go. You're broke and you have two sleep bolts on your person. Keyleth.
Marisha: I got to Gilmore's and I buy an alchemy set.
Matt: Okay. That comes to--
Sam: 95,000 gold
Orion: It's going to be a lot more than you think, apparently.
Matt: Alchemist supplies? 50 gold.
Orion: Oh, come on!
Matt: Not enchanted, yo. "It's magic, give me all the magic!"
Taliesin: This is made of things.
Marisha: This is made of things. And then I go home and I make a few Cure Wounds potions. Try it out, since I've learned and I've been studying and I've been doing my research. So maybe a few level two, level three Cure Wounds potions?
Matt: A level two healing potion, a greater healing potion. The materials involved in creating that will come to, I'd say about 400 apiece, and you'd have time to create two. It's about four days per potion.
Sam: (whispered) How much do they cost?
Matt: To purchase? They cost about 500 to 600. She's getting a discount because she's making it herself.
Marisha: Wait, they cost 500 to 600 and they cost 400 for me to make them?
Matt: Yes. It's your first time doing it. They'll probably get cheaper over time as you get better at it.
Marisha: Oh, okay. Cheaper over time as I get better at it? That's funsies. Well, let me make-- What is that? A greater healing potion?
Matt: It's a greater healing. So for each one you make, roll a d20 and add five.
Marisha: Let me make one for right now.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: That's an 18. That's pretty good.
Matt: Then yeah, you successfully create the potion. No issue.
Marisha: Awesome. I had a Percy-roll! And he hates me for it. How long will it take me to make a Daylight scroll?
Matt: A Daylight scroll? What level spell is that?
Marisha: Third.
Matt: Third? That'll cost you about, I'd say, 600 gold pieces. It'll take you six days. You don't have time. You could pay more to have somebody else help you make one if you wanted to.
Marisha: Then I make two greater healing potions. Actually, no, I want to experiment. I want to take one of those holy water bottles. And I want to see if I can enchant it with my Fog spell. To make it a holy water fog grenade. When you throw it, it'll go (shatters) with my fog spell.
Matt: You know that upon throwing the holy water, it would shatter. It would create a fog, but the holy water itself would just affect the creature you threw it at. You'd be able to blend the two enchantments; they don't necessarily mix. The fog itself is not created from the water, it's created from the glass that you're enchanting.
Laura: Plus, we didn't get any holy water, we only got holy oil to put on our weapons.
Matt: You have a couple of flasks of holy water.
Marisha: What if I enchant it with Daylight? Oh wait, it still won't--
Matt: It's a whole different thing. Daylight, that's more of a scroll thing.
Marisha: I'm going to do it, anyway. I'm going to do the fog thing, because I said it. I'm going to commit.
Matt: Okay. That will cost you-- I'll put it at 500 gold pieces. And that'll take you five days.
Orion: For a fog scroll?
Marisha: No, for the fog holy water thing. It's a holy smoke grenade.
Liam: Someday, we will get out of the character creation menu, but not this day.
Taliesin: I don't like the nose yet. It's too low.
Marisha: Sure. That'll be my two things I do.
Matt: Okay, roll another d20. Plus five.
Marisha: Natural 20.
Matt: All right. You feel the fog enchantment take shape in the glass vial. It seems relatively unstable. You gather that this glass was not meant to contain an enchantment from the get-go. You somehow manage to make it function, but you have to be very careful with that vial.
Orion: Here, put it in here.
Matt: Who knows what'll happen if it actually is thrown?
Laura: Don't put it in a Bag of Holding.
Liam: Give it to Scanlan.
Marisha: Who would like a very unstable item?
Laura: Percy's used to unstable things.
Marisha: I give it to Scanlan.
Taliesin: Was that a jab at my-- No, never mind.
Matt: It's a fog-enchanted vial of holy water. You can write it down that way if you'd like.
Sam: I'll just put it on my back. I'll just hang it.
Marisha: Please be careful. Wait, I tell him. Scanlan, this is very delicate. Please be very gentle with this.
Sam: I will put it where I put all gentle things.
Marisha: That I trust. I trust that more. Fine. Good.
Orion: You do not make the wisest decisions here your Majesty, I must say.
Matt: What was once holy-- (laughter)
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Oh god.
Sam: I give everyone the chainmail.
Matt: Okay. You give all the chainmail.
Laura: Oh. Look at this, so fancy.
Sam: I take that fancy box I bought a couple times ago, and I take the blue crystal that we found in our very first adventure and I put it in and I seal it tight. Shit. I had one more thing I wanted to do. Oh yes, I drink my Shit-Scrying Potion, shit in a jar and leave it in the kitchen. And tell the help, don't touch it.
Matt: Okay. (laughs) It takes much convincing, but nevertheless they acquiesce to your request, being the boss. All right. Anything else?
Taliesin: Yeah. Just going to let the guards know to watch our guest while we're away. Keep him under protection.
Travis: Are we leaving him here?
Taliesin: I think so.
Laura: Oh god.
Matt: The what?
Orion: The guy who built stuff, regardless, did I do that or is that just in my head?
Matt: Lord Daxio, you mean? What about him?
Orion: So I didn't do that yet.
Travis: Yeah, you going to do something on his room, Keyleth?
Laura: I go find Jarett, and I give him 200 gold. And I say, do not let-- Desmond? Leave your side. Watch him, watch for invisible anything. Protect him with everything you can.
Matt: "I will do this with my life. Do not worry."
Sam: Have we given them a raise?
Laura: I just gave him 200 fucking gold.
Travis: Double the guard on him.
Laura: And yeah, everybody-- fuck. I give a hundred--
Sam: Five of them make 100 a month, two of them make 50 a month.
Laura: I give another 200 to him and tell him to pass it out to the rest of the guard. We'll be back soon!
Matt: "Very generous, and I think they'll be very happy to find this. Thank you very much."
Laura: And add another guard to the watch.
Travis: Two to Desmond. At all times.
Matt: "Very well. I will do this. Thank you."
Laura: Thank you.
Orion: I going to tell Erwen to go and ask for court for the lord that can construct and tell him that we would like to make some changes and have the cells converted into barracks for our soldiers.
Sam: That won't do anything.
Orion: That's what I do. That's what Tiberius does.
Matt: Okay. Erwen goes, "All right, sir." And he wanders off.
Orion: Getting a good reputation does not mean holding prison cells.
Matt: About an hour later Erwen returns and says, "I'm sorry. They would not allow me into the central district. I do not have the proper papers to pass within. I mentioned that I worked for you, and they told me I was not to enter."
Orion: Oh, maybe you should have said a different name.
Sam: They would have known when they got to our keep.
Orion: That's true. (laughs)
Laura: Shall we head out?
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: Did I learn anything from Seeker Asum?
Matt: Go ahead and roll a d20, adding your wisdom modifier.
Laura: Ah jeez, really?
Liam: Come on, Laura.
Laura: What if I roll like shit?
Liam: Then it'll be hilarious. Roll that die. Come on. Roll high and it will be amazing.
Matt: Make it with advantage, because Asum is a very good teacher.
Laura: He is. He's so good.
Sam: He's awesome.
Laura: (fake crying) No, that was terrible.
Marisha: Advantage!
Liam: You are playing DND right now! All right.
Laura: Plus my wisdom. 17.
Matt: 17, okay.
Liam: Is she an emperor now?
Matt: (laughs) Is that how this works? All right, so talking with Asum. He works with you for a bit and teaches you the ranger ability Skirmisher's Stealth.
Sam: Skirmisher's Stealth?
Matt: So if you start one of your turns hidden from a creature, you can then, as a bonus action at the end of your turn, make another stealth check to remain hidden from them. You essentially can dive between areas and still be hidden.
Laura: While I'm attacking?
Liam: That's all ranger stuff?
Laura: Cool.
Liam: (air horn noises)
Sam: (air horn noises)
Matt: So yeah. We'll go over the details of it after the game. Essentially, you learn a new ranger ability from Seeker Asum.
Marisha: Dope.
Liam: Wow. I bought some sticks.
Matt: All right.
Orion: At the end of the first day, before all of that stuff happens. Sorry, guys, this is necessary.
Travis: Is it?
Liam: Everybody shut up and let Grog go on a one man, solo kill spree.
Travis: It's bound to happen. He's going to secede.
Matt: Tiberius, what do you want to do?
Orion: I'm in my lab the first night and I write a Scroll of Telescription to my father. And I go, dear father, and I tell him about the circumstances with the vampires.
Laura: Dear diary. Sorry.
Orion: At the end of it I go  I invoke the ambassador's right of war time as of now, and moreover as your son when I provide concrete evidence, you will know. But in the meantime, I would have you gather 50 ground troops of the Draconian knights and 50 winged soldiers of the wyvern fleet. Have them at the ready for my signal. I know it will take you a few days of travel to get here, but this is a town of vampires and possibly liches, which you know need to be destroyed no matter what. Your son, with love, Tiberius.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Everyone is aware that Tiberius is the giant eagles in Lord of the Rings. Tiberius can invoke ultimate destruction at the call of whatever he wants.
Orion: I don't know what's going on over there.
Matt: All right. As the week comes to a close, eventually a note appears before you, Tiberius, within your magical room. (fluttering) It reads: "Tiberius, child. I understand your request. However, you are fresh to these political matters and as the young one prone to jump at the sight of a shadow, I would need some very heavy proof to invoke wartime. Which, if I might add, is not your jurisdiction, but my own. Should you wish to bring this to my attention, you are welcome to, but you have but one chance before I set aside this intrusion to my work time as mere poppycock." (laughter)
Matt: "Tiberius, I trust that in time you will prove yourself to this family and to this country, but for the time being, business matters of this larger scale are best left to those with experience. With love, Kruvanis Stormwind."
Liam: (whispers) Send him three more letters.
Orion: Damn it. Have to provide proof to my fucking father. Fine. He didn't say no, which is what he always says. Which is a lot better than what he always says.
Sam: I walk into Tiberius' room while he's having this conversation with himself. And I say, what are you doing in here?
Orion: I'm talking to myself, Scanlan.
Sam: Oh, okay. All right. I'm going to go get some garlic from the kitchen, and then let's go!
Laura: I write a note. Address it to Uriel, hand it to our main butler. Who I know his name.
Matt: Erwen.
Laura: Erwen. It basically says  Uriel, FYI, we didn't totally flee. We's looking for evidence. No, we didn't flee. We'll be back, how about that? We'll be back.
Matt: All right. The note is left with Erwen.
Laura: And I tell him, only give this to anybody if they come looking for us and they're angry.
Matt: "Yes, of course. Of course."
Marisha: Grog? Do you think I should do the whole elemental guardian thing?
Travis: Why not?
Marisha: All right.
Orion: How are you doing, Grog?
Travis: I'm fucking bored. (laughter)
Travis: I've been sitting here for 30 fucking minutes. I'm bored! Cast an elemental and make it smash everything around the keep.
Marisha: Give me that ruby. (ting) I catch it. Water elemental seems appropriate based on our knowledge, yeah? Water elemental. And Planar Binding. And I talk to him in my elemental speech, which I can do.
Taliesin: And you say? (gargles water during Marisha's speech)
Marisha: And I say, look, we're going to be gone for 30 days. We have a visitor here. Make sure nothing or no one brings him any harm. (laughter)
Matt: I don't have a drink.
Orion: That make you thirsty?
Taliesin: You know, you can speak English, you don't have to--
Matt: Yeah. The elemental gives you an acknowledgment and speaks back in its own tongue the equivalent of, for my time here, I serve.
Marisha: Wait, what? I'm sorry.
Matt: "For my time here, I serve" is essentially the essence of what you get from him
Marisha: For my time here, I serve?
Matt: For my time here, I serve. All right.
Sam: Onward.
Liam: I love doing this show. (laughter)
Sam: Do we know where we're going?
Taliesin: Yeah, I know where we're going.
Liam: Percival de Rolo knows where we're going to go.
Taliesin: We head to Turst Fields.
Marisha: Are we riding there by horseback? Is that what we're doing?
Sam: Do we know where we're going?
Matt: Well, Percy said the Turst Fields. The Turst Fields you do know. Some of you may have passed by them. They are to the east, northeast area of Westruun, on the eastern side of the continent. It's about four and a half days' travel horseback.
Travis: What if we purchased a carriage?
Orion: What if we went on airship instead? We have one at our disposal, do we not?
Marisha: Well, we had one at our disposal when we were friends of the city.
Laura: I think it's in the Cloudtop District, actually.
Liam: I think we need to go on the down-low.
Marisha: Yeah, let's not tell anybody that we're leaving.
Sam: Carriage. Let's go. How much do they cost?
Marisha: Do we need a carriage? We have a stable full of horses.
Liam: Rein it in. We're going to fight vampires.
Matt: You have four horses, and you technically have the teleportation sigil for Westruun.
Laura: Oh yeah!
Orion: Is Briarwood keep over there?
Matt: Westruun's most of the way across the continent. It's about a day's ride out from Westruun.
Marisha: So that would shave time?
Matt: It would shave about three days off your journey.
Liam: Matt, I'm pretty sure it's "si-google."
Taliesin: Turst Fields is just northeast of Westruun.
Laura: Let's do it!
Liam: What's in those fields?
Matt: The Turst Fields are a farming community that takes care of a lot of the eastern side. They're not really an extension of Westruun, but it's one of the closest cities. And they do a lot of food trade up into Whitestone, or did previously.
Taliesin: It's where we would make our camp.
Marisha: Let's head there and make camp. And maybe talk about a plan.
Liam: Yes. I think, Percival, you're leading the way. Use my sister as an advisor, but you're leading the way right now.
Taliesin: I'm going to draw out a crude map while we make our way so I can let you all know where we're going.
Orion: Well, then join me in my laboratory, everyone.
Sam: All right, yes. We go to Tiberius's laboratory.
Matt: Okay. Tiberius, you go ahead and cast Teleportation Circle.
Orion: Not yet. I go, hey, look at the laboratory, guys. What do you think? Scanlan, it looks like you're impressed.
Sam: (dryly) Oh, I'm very impressed.
Matt: Now you cast Circle of Teleportation.
Orion: I use my sigil there. I got it set up there.
Matt: Yep, and the circle appears. You guys rush through it. You do not have your horses with you because they would not be able to travel through the teleportation circle with you. However, you could probably procure some while you're in Westruun. In doing that, you guys, for the case of brevity on this-- we've been missing that for a lot of this session.
Liam: Let's do this in real time.
Matt: We'll say the total gold to purchase horses for the whole party--
Laura: After I haggled. Because let's be honest, I would've.
Matt: You would've. Go ahead and make a persuasion roll.
Travis: You would've.
Orion: Even in real time.
Marisha: Do it.
Laura: 21.
Matt: 21? Okay, yeah, would put you at about, we'll say because you are renowned in this area and you've helped Westruun. Helped them during the Winter's Crest Festival the year before, using that discount. You manage to procure everyone's horses, including your warhorse, for 210 gold, which is a pretty decent discount.
Laura: Yes it is. All right.
Taliesin: Can I share my map?
Matt: You can, yeah.
Laura: (gasps) You made a map?
Sam: You drew that just now?
Taliesin: You know I've forged all of our documents? You are aware of that, right? Any time we've needed papers.
Laura: Wait, where is Westruun? Oh, there's Westruun, that's where we are right now. So we have to go-- I just spit on your map, Percy. Up through the woods, into the mountains. Whitestone is mountains.
Liam: You can handle that.
Laura: Yeah, I can handle both.
Travis: We're here, and we've got to go here.
Laura: Right.
Sam: Let's set out.
Matt: You have two paths. You have the path into the center of the Parchwood Woods that leads up into the valley of the Alabaster Sierras that surround it. That is the direct route to Whitestone that leads through the main pathway. The forest to the front of the city. There's also the Alabaster Sierras themselves, which surround that peninsula that extends into the northern part of the continent. They are very tall, fjord-like, craggy mountain ranges up against the sea along the edge. They're a little more treacherous, but a little more out of the way; a backdoor route. So you guys choose which route you want to take.
Taliesin: I would prefer not the direct route.
Orion: Always go in the backdoor.
Taliesin: Can you say that anything that is not laced with sexual innuendo?
Laura: Mountain ranges are part of my favored terrain. We don't get disadvantage traveling through.
Taliesin: I would prefer taking that direction. I don't want to head straight towards them.
Laura: There probably will be mountain giants, though, remember, that throw boulders and they will be terrible.
Taliesin: The Parchwood Forests are dangerous as they are. There's really no safe way.
Sam: I trust Percy; whatever you say.
Matt: Percy, you are aware that here have been problems in the past with various mountain-faring giants that lived north of Whitestone that occasionally would wander too far south. They mostly kept to themselves, but occasionally they had some crossover, there were some scuffles here and there. So you guys are deciding to take the Alabaster Sierras?
Laura: Yes. I want to cast Pass Without a Trace on everyone.
Matt: You guys head out from Westruun; it takes about a day's worth of travel. You stop in the Turst Fields. It's a small farming community. You ask around for a bit, most of the folks there say that they haven't had much trade or communication with Whitestone like they used to. They do still provide crops and such, but they don't allow anyone past into the actual forest. They trade at the boundary created by the forest. Still pay gold, but it seems to be more enclosed scenario, but very few folks there seem to question it. Business as usual is still left within Turst Fields. Make your way northward to the bottom of the Alabaster Sierras, and as you begin heading up the outskirts of this mountain range, you do notice that the mountains are extremely high in altitude. There's a perpetual climb at nearly a 40-degree angle as you continue upward further and further and further. The drop-off at the edge of the cliff is 1,000 to 2,000 feet at times, straight down into the ocean or rocks below. There are paths worn up here; it has been used as travel before. Although you're uncertain as to how recently it may have been traversed. Occasionally, the wind picks up and you have to steel yourself, push yourself against the side. The path, thankfully, is maybe 15, 20, sometimes 30 feet in width. It's not too much where you're being forced against the edge, but it's enough to be aware of the danger of the circumstance. You guys are heading up, I'd say, about half a day's travel, it's about 2:00 in the afternoon. Also, you can tell there are slight outcroppings a few hundred feet down to the bottom, a few bits of stone that jut out from the side. You can see small nests or bushes that have taken root on those side areas. The rock itself of this mountain range is unusually, unnaturally white. The actual rock that forms this entire region is almost a glowing quartz-like texture. There are parts that are almost translucent, there are parts that are very milky white. Number one, you can now understand as to partially why the area is called Whitestone, the town nearby, and you've heard mention from Percy in the past of the large quarries here that mine the stone for various uses and export it throughout all of Tal'Dorei. That's where a large portion of the town was built around that trade at the beginning of its construction. Eventually, you come to a point where there is a falloff on the path, where the erosion or some sort of large impact of the side caused the path to fall into a scooped crevasse that is a smooth fall down the side. There is no way across other than a large sea salt air-rotted rope bridge that goes across about a hundred feet. You see it rocking (creaking) with the wind.
Travis: I don't think this looks very stable.
Laura: Man, you know what I would give for a flying fucking carpet right now?
Sam: So the bridge is out?
Matt: No, the bridge can be crossed. It looks a little rickety. It's not terrible or frightening, but it's been there for a while, and you can tell from the color of the rope--
Sam: How far is it across?
Matt: A hundred feet.
Orion: Should I go first, everyone?
Taliesin: I want to inspect it from an engineering perspective, if that's possible.
Matt: Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Taliesin: Ten.
Matt: Okay. Looking at it, I mean, the anchors are pretty solid in the stonework. There's no looseness to their element. The rope itself is taut and seems to have serviced long enough. There are no signs of extreme wear other than just time and weather.
Liam: I'm going to walk forward.
Laura: I'm going to tie the fucking rope around your waist before you do that.
Taliesin: That's quite a good idea!
Liam: Sarenrae, jeepers. I'm going to use perception, I'm going to look at it before going out. That is a 23.
Matt: All right. Are you taking your horse with you?
Liam: I leave my horse with my sister. I'm on foot; I'm on all fours, really. Spidering out.
Matt: Making your way across, you get halfway across the bridge. There's a creaking sound and slight movement as the wind picks up at times and you (creaking).
Liam: So I'm lasting. What would I make, is it an insight check to decide if I thought Grog could make it across this thing?
Matt: Make an intelligence check. Roll and add your intelligence modifier.
Taliesin: It's a ten.
Liam: Take that zero off it, and you've got it.
Matt: Best you can tell, Grog looks like a big guy.
Liam: This is fun. You swing back and forth. Grog, I think you might like this!
Marisha: How far across is the bridge? A hundred feet?
Taliesin: Once you're across, let's secure the rope that's attached to you, and we'll make ourselves a guideline that we can hang onto.
Laura: I like it.
Liam: All right, he sounds like a Debbie Downer, Grog, but I'll go across, and you can follow.
Matt: Okay, you make the rest of your way across. No issue. The rope bridge carries your weight all the way.
Laura: Tie a rope. I tie the other side.
Liam: Is there anything on the other side I could tie it to?
Matt: There's a couple of small cliffside trees that grow off in strange twisting bonsai tree-like branches that stick off. They're pretty sturdy.
Liam: I use a sailor knot.
Laura: I use a special ranger knot that's really extra strong.
Matt: Secret ranger knot. Well played. (laughter)
Matt: Who's up next?
Liam: I double-knot mine.
Sam: We've got to get the horses across.
Travis: No, they ain't coming.
Sam: They're not coming? Oh. Well, I just Dimension Door across, then.
Liam: Jeepers! Will you warn a half-elf when you're going to do that?
Matt: Spooks you for a second. You hold on and you make your way across. You guys are now on the other side. You're holding onto everyone's horses left behind.
Laura: Trinket.
Travis: I tie up all the horses to a very large tree.
Marisha: Are we going by foot now?
Laura: Looks like it. Tiberius, are you still on our side? Are you with me, still? Will you cast Fly on Trinket? I love you.
Orion: Sure. To make it across?
Laura: I can climb on him and you cast Fly and you only have to use one little spell.
Orion: If I cast it on him, I would probably jump on myself, because I'm a little bit heavier than you are, darling.
Laura: Then do it!
Liam: She's haggling you right now.
Orion: You can have him afterwards.
Laura: Yeah, you can go, and I'll just use the little rope.
Orion: Fine. Proceed.
Matt: You cast Fly on Trinket--
Orion: No, I don't. I don't do shit yet. I wait for you guys to get across, so if something happens, then I can cast it.
Laura: Okay, just protect him.
Matt: So you get on Trinket's back?
Laura: No, he hasn't cast it on him yet.
Matt: So who's going across now?
Laura: I am!
Matt: Okay, you make it across. No problem. You're light enough and able to guide the movement of the bridge.
Laura: Good thing I only had one frittata the other day!
Marisha: Here's my question. What looks shaky, the connection of the bridge or the actual, physical condition of the bridge itself?
Matt: The physical condition of the bridge. There is no actual visible point that is--
Marisha: For bonus added safety in case this bridge gives way, I'm going to cast Grasping Vine and have it loop and wrap around the edge of the bridge. Further enforce it.
Matt: The vines reach around and wrap around the edges of the wood slats and the rope handholds, and it seems to be pretty well-held on that side.
Taliesin: Clever!
Marisha: At least that side will be fine. And then I'll go across.
Matt: Cool, you make it across without a problem.
Travis: Who else needs to go across?
Laura: Just you and Tiberius and Trinket.
Travis: You want me to go first?
Orion: It's fine! I hop on Trinket and I pet Lockheed. And then I hop on Trinket and I cast Fly on him and say, Remember how to go across. And then as we start flying across, I cast Telekinesis on Grog and take him with me. Kind of like Green Lantern.
Marisha: Concentration spells.
Orion: Yeah. That should be 12 seconds to get across a bridge, right?
Matt: Yeah, that would be 12 seconds, which will be enough time. So as you're coasting over with Trinket, floating (bear sounds) you turn around and cast Telekinesis. Grog, all of a sudden, you're lifted up and held aloft. You look down over yourself, waving your hands instinctually. Looking down, you can see a 600, 700 foot drop before the rock comes to a point which would probably splinter or crush anyone who fell into it, and then is pushed out to the ocean. So it's a little scary, but you start flailing about as you're being pulled across by Tiberius. Eventually, Trinket comes, lands on the other side safely. You guide Grog over, down onto his feet. Safe and sound.
Marisha: Who's left?
Sam: No one. The horses.
Laura: Oh yeah, what do you want to do with the horses?
Travis: We tied them up.
Orion: I'm going to dispel the Fly. But I'm going to hold the Telekinesis for the ten minutes I can on Grog. I'm not going to do anything, I'm just going to keep that spell going.
Matt: Okay. Cool. All righty.
Sam: I say a prayer of thanks to the horses, who will surely die of starvation.
Laura: They were tied up in a super grassy area with a shit-ton of water around.
Liam: They'll be eaten by something long before that. It's fine.
Marisha: So what's our plan? What are we doing?
Sam: The plan is walk until we get there.
Matt: The path pinches a little bit tighter as you go across, about a ten foot width and you guys begin pulling across. There's a sudden large gust of sea air blows in as you guys go ahead and buckle down to hold on. I'd like you all to roll an athletics check.
Laura: Are we in mountains yet? So I have advantage?
Matt: You have advantage on it.
Travis: Me too, because mountains are my favorite--
Matt: That's true, yeah!
Laura: What is this, acrobatics?
Sam: Athletics.
Laura: Athletics.
Sam: Nine. ORION. 18.
Marisha: 19.
Taliesin: Ten.
Laura: 11.
Travis: 23.
Matt: All right, as you guys are holding tight, both Scanlan and Vax are trying to grab something, holding onto rocks, but before they can get enough, they're both so small, it pushes them out.
Orion: How much time has passed?
Matt: It's three seconds. Oh! Passed since the bridge? About five, six minutes.
Orion: Can I try to catch them because I still have the Telekinesis going?
Matt: You can catch one of them.
Orion: (yelling) Why, Matthew?!
Matt: Because the spell has to be directed!
Marisha: Are they flying off a cliff?
Matt: They're both being dragged by the wind off the side of the cliff. You can see them grabbing the ground. Vax is being pulled off the side as Scanlan is actually lifted off his feet.
Orion: I know Vax can't. I grab Vax!
Liam: Tell my sister I love her!
Travis: I jump and try and grab Vex.
Laura: Vax. You want to hold me?
Liam: I'm Vox.
Orion: Wait, you're grabbing him?
Laura: I'm Vex.
Travis: That's what I said!
Matt: You grab Vax and hold him in place as you reach out and grab Vax by the arms and pull him back onto--
Liam: Wait, who?
Orion: You!
Liam: Oh, he grabs me!
Travis: I grab her.
Laura: Grog grabbed me.
Matt: You were fine.
Laura: I know. But he still said he'd grabbed me.
Matt: Okay. Then you're being held aloft by Tiberius' Telekinesis concentrating. Scanlan has fallen out of view.
Marisha: I Grasping Vine him before he goes out of view.
Matt: Okay. It's all right.
Marisha: Off the side of the cliff.
Matt: Go ahead and make an attack roll with your Grasping Vine.
Orion: I can manipulate a thousand pounds.
Liam: You've got me.
Marisha: What?!
Matt: This is to aim the vine as he falls.
Marisha: 19.
Matt: 19? Not a problem! The vine grabs Scanlan and pulls him back and holds him as the wind slowly dies down.
Orion: I guide Vax back to the cliff.
Matt: The wind dies down. You guys now begin pushing yourselves close to the edge of this pathway up the side of this seaside cliff. It doesn't seem to deviate much beyond that 15-foot width now, which puts you all at general unease. As the sun's getting closer and closer to setting, you're making your way around the crest. You've been traveling this mountain range for a good number of hours now. You're at a decent height, you're on foot, a good distance inside the Alabaster Sierra mountain range. Perception check, everyone.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Travis: Five.
Sam: Four.
Matt: Three, two, one.
Marisha: 25.
Taliesin: 26.
Liam: 29.
Laura: 25.
Orion: I rolled a natural one, with negative two.
Matt: Okay! Those of you with a higher perception than 20 on this roll. As you pull along, you hear this echoing sound, this (bird-like sounds) in the distance, the wind's carrying it as it's blowing past you.
Marisha: Does it sounds like anything nature-based? Something I could possibly have talked to in the past?
Taliesin: Is it something I would know?
Matt: Go ahead and make an intelligence check. You go ahead and make a nature check.
Taliesin: 21.
Marisha: 25.
Matt: It is birdish in nature, but it sounds too guttural and too articulate to be a bird. There is enough of-- you notice there's a language of the chittering that is bird-like, but there is actual voice. You recall that there are various creatures that make the cliffsides home. One of the ones that are more obnoxious that some of the earlier traders of Whitestone had problems with making this path for mining were clusters of harpies.
Marisha: Oh, fucking harpies.
Taliesin: Harpies.
Orion: Harpies.
Orion: They're the opposite of the Harpers, which are good.
Travis: What's a harpy?
Orion: A harpy's a jerk, a stupid butthole who's super loud.
Matt: You glance over as you guys are having this conversation. Behind you, you can see in the distance from where you were, a couple of these dark shapes swooping down. You see a cluster of about four or five of these harpies diving.
Taliesin: Can we find a place to maybe settle down?
Laura: Can we stealth? I cast Pass Without a Trace on us!
Sam: Don't worry! I can make us all look like cows again!
Marisha: (shushes) Everyone be quiet! MATT How long is the concentration on Pass Without a Trace? How long can you hold that concentration?
Laura: Up to one hour.
Matt: Okay. It has faded since then.
Marisha: Where are we against the mountain? Are we still on the mountain edge?
Matt: Yeah, you're still on the path, and you look back from where you came from.
Marisha: So we have a mountain behind our backs?
Matt: Yeah, a sheer cliff.
Marisha: I turn around and I cast Move Earth, my 6th-level fucker. And I (boof) and I clear out a cave.
Matt: Okay. As you're concentrating on this, eventually, Keyleth begins to focus, and over the next minute or so, she begins to push a cavern.
Laura: I cast Pass Without a Trace on us now.
Matt: Okay. As this is happening, you can see the harpies have definitely found some sort of prey. They're distracted as they're slowly tearing apart what you gather are the horses you left behind.
Laura: Oh no! Terrible!
Matt: Yeah. Good news is, they're distracted.
Marisha: Horses saved our lives, guys.
Matt: Bad news is they're probably not going to be there when you come back.
Taliesin: It's getting dark. I think we should camp.
Liam: So you're saying there's a chance.
Matt: Over the next few minutes or so, Keyleth, you've pushed a good ten by 15-foot cavern into the side of this wall that didn't previously exist. You guys are able to step out of the light as the sun's starting to disappear over the mountain range, the Cliffkeep, which you can see in the distance across this channel now. There's a channel of water between the two.
Marisha: I go ahead and Druidcraft a little campfire. Tiberius, you want to light a fire for us?
Laura: I'm going to use Hide in Plain Sight. I'm going to see if I can do this. That sort of ability to camouflage the opening of the cave to where they wouldn't be able to see it.
Matt: Sure! Go ahead and make a stealth check.
Laura: 28.
Matt: Okay! You take the next 15 minutes or so, finding what nearby pieces of brush you can and rocks that have been loosely around the area and you start setting up this pattern of them that closes off some of the entrance from the smooth opening that Keyleth had created. It takes a little ingenuity because it's just a rock opening, and there isn't a whole lot of brush and things around. But you feel you've managed to mask it to the point that to a distant eye it would be hard to see that there is an actual cavern there. At this point, the sun has set, night has come in, and you guys are sitting within this cavern hearing the distant sound of the ocean waves crashing against the bottom of these cliffside, coastal fjords.
Marisha: Me and Tiberius made a fire.
Matt: All right, a fire is made.
Orion: I lit it with my spitting.
Matt: Okay. Tiberius forms a relatively useful and effective campfire within this cave.
Laura: Oh! I want to use my holy oil and dip a couple arrows in the holy oil because I know I can make three based on what we've done before.
Matt: You can, yes. Do be aware, the holy oil will only last about a day.
Laura: Oh, really? Oh, so I'll do that right before.
Matt: It's one of those things where if you dip it now and leave it, over time it'll just either evaporate or drip off of the arrow.
Laura: Good to know.
Liam: While my sister's looking at her shit, I bogart Trinket and climb up onto him, use him like a sleeping bag and cuddle into his softest warm parts and fall asleep.
Matt: (bear groaning) Trinket, at first, just haplessly pushes you away, but recognizes your scent and lets you.
Laura: You ganked my sleeping bag.
Liam: Sorry, not sorry.
Orion: I find a little patch of dust and do a little dust bath real quick and then I'm going to use one of my books of stuffs and start researching liches just because I want to.
Matt: Okay. I mean, what book would you be researching this in?
Orion: Tobin's Spirit Guide?
Matt: The researcher ability is that you can go to places of research and find books. You don't really keep a tome of all knowledge with you. The next time you find a town or you're in town, then you can use that ability to research in advance.
Laura: I ask Grog how he's doing.
Travis: I'm bored as shit.
Laura: You want to arm wrestle?
Travis: No.
Laura: All right.
Sam: Come on, do it, Grog! Come on, you can't beat a girl?
Matt: Do you guys all rest for the evening?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: But we should take watch.
Taliesin: I'm still awake. I'm going to fall asleep last.
Marisha: I also stay up with Percy.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I'll take first watch.
Laura: Wake me up when you're tired.
Orion: I'm gonna feed Lockheed some treats.
Matt: Okay. You guys continue your business for the evening.
Marisha: I talk to Percy for a second. Percy, while we're alone for a moment, there's something that's been bothering me, and I can't get it out of my head. I thought I'd talk to you about it because I feel-- we're friends, right? We're friends? Are we friends?
Taliesin: Sure! I'd like to think so, yes.
Marisha: Been through a lot, been together a while.
Taliesin: It's been a while, yes.
Marisha: Two years now?
Taliesin: I suppose.
Sam: I go invisible to see if I can hear their conversation.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a perception check.
Sam: Perception or stealth? 20.
Matt: Okay. You are keeping relatively low and are able to overhear their conversation.
Marisha: You know, you're a very brilliant person.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Marisha: I can't help but feel like I'm being watched right now. Never mind, forget I said anything. I can't help but feel like there's something else, there's something more to this that you're not telling us. And I didn't really think of anything until we were having that fight where Tiberius brutally murdered that old woman.
Taliesin: Been trying not to think about it.
Marisha: Yeah, me too. But the one thing that I can't get out of my head was something that you said during that fight. And for a long time I was like, damn, Percy's got really cool one-liners and he's so smart, and I wish I could have cool one-liners. You and Grog have really cool one-liners. And then you said "your soul is now forfeit" to the person you shot that night. And I thought, wow! That was an interesting one-liner.
Taliesin: I did say that, didn't I?
Marisha: Yeah! Yeah, you did. For some reason, I was the only one who noticed it, and I don't know if that's because I'm just reading into things, if that was just a really awesome, but scary and brutal thing to say in the moment, or if there's something deeper that you might be serving.
Taliesin: Honestly, I'll say, I've had a number of years thinking about what I would do and what I would say and how I would go about this. This kind of obsession is not healthy, and I know that, and it's no way to live. And I'm sure that was something on the list of things I thought I would say, some attempt to be scary when I met them, as opposed to being scared, I think I was-- (sighs) again, I don't really remember much because I was so angry. I've never been so angry. And I think I was just trying to sound threatening. And I'd had these dreams before, you know I've-- you don't build anything like this without the knowledge that you're-- I'm aware that inventing this thing has been a mistake.
Marisha: What thing?
Taliesin: I pull out my gun.
Marisha: Wait, what are you saying? You had knowledge? You didn't build that without inspiration? What do you mean?
Taliesin: I've had thoughts about it, but I didn't really think about what I was doing or what I was going to build until I decided to take my revenge, and I'd never thought about building it because I realized what a dangerous idea it was. (sighs) And I fear for the day that that comes back to haunt me. I don't know what I'll do, but I don't know, I think I was just trying to say something to be intimidating. I honestly didn't even think I was going to kill him, it just happened.
Marisha: Can I see if he's lying to me?
Matt: Go ahead and make an insight check.
Marisha: 17.
Matt: 17. Roll a d20.
Taliesin: Is your insight really that good?
Marisha: Yeah, I'm wise as fuck!
Matt: And add your charisma modifier.
Taliesin: Add my charisma modifier? 18.
Matt: Best you can tell, he's seeming honest, and sharing open-hearted to you. You feel like you've really gotten to the core truth of what Percy's about.
Marisha: What? What did you say?
Matt: You feel like you've gotten to the core and truth of what Percy's about, and perhaps your questioning this has upset him, and you feel like maybe you've pushed this a little too far.
Taliesin: I do regret what happened and I know he was a bad man, but I still hope to never lose my temper like that again.
Liam: Got to roleplay that shit. He convinced you.
Marisha: I still really feel like we're being watched. Do you feel that? I don't know.
Taliesin: Honestly, I think we both need sleep.
Marisha: It's really distracting. Yeah. Well, I love you.
Taliesin: I love you, too.
Marisha: We're in this with you until this end.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Marisha: Let's sleep.
Matt: Okay. You guys, through your turns, the evening goes by uneventful. Morning comes to you. You can hear the distant caws of seagulls waking you up as the heat from the morning sun begins to eventually hit this side of the cave. Since you're on this side of the mountain, by the time you wake up, you realize the hour's probably a little bit past noon.
Laura: Oh shit.
Marisha: We overslept!
Orion: It's so dark in here, because of the cave thing.
Marisha: Okay, so wait. Percy, how much further out are we from Whitestone?
Matt: You gather you probably have about a day's worth of travel, and you'll be able to make your way down into the ravine from here. You've come up quite a bit of the mountain range.
Taliesin: Probably another day before we can camp close enough to attack.
Sam: Let's get going.
Laura: Should we stealth through the mountains, just in case they have any kind of lookouts?
Orion: Oh, they will have lookouts.
Laura: I cast Pass Without a Trace on us again.
Liam: Let's go slower.
Laura: Should we all stealth? Try at least?
Liam: Yes.
Taliesin: Let's keep stealthy.
Matt: Okay. You guys gather outside of the cavern and head up, continuing along this path. Eventually, you do notice that the path becomes broken and too steep to continue. It actually falls and tumbles down into this long, sliding ravine. There is a slight rockslide trail that you could climb up and over and it looks like there is a separate ravine, or a separation where the two mountains join, that could possibly be traversed. But continuing on the seaside path is not going to work. It does bring you inward towards-- maybe a little further south than you would have wanted to for optimal backdoor entrance into Whitestone, but it's about your only path.
Taliesin: Have I walked this path before? I never walked this path at all.
Matt: You would have had no reason to walk this path. You've heard about it, you know of this side of the mountain range, but based on your history, there's no reason you would have come here.
Orion: Whatever it takes to get to that back door.
Matt: Everyone make a stealth check, by the way. Just so we're aware of what your stealth rolls are with the Pass Without a Trace.
Laura: Add ten to it.
Liam: You get ten? Oh. Well, I got a 40, then.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: 27
Matt: 27.
Orion: Nine.
Matt: With the ten?
Orion: Oh, 19.
Marisha: 32.
Taliesin: 32.
Travis: 27.
Laura: 37.
Matt: That's a pretty good spread. So you guys, you've hit the edge of the path. Are you heading up the rockslide trail?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Okay. You all, one by one, begin to climb over the trail and some rocks tumble loose beneath your feet, grasp. And you help each other get to the very top.
Orion: I use my Mage Hand to help.
Matt: (laughs) That's adorable. (laughter)
Laura: As he looks at the clock! "That's adorable."
Matt: So you all eventually manage to make it over the top of the rockslide trail and eventually it leads you to where these two large mountains come together, and there is a small path that leads between. It winds and travels downward. You can see bits of the rock have fallen and crumbled, and there are small boulders and such that just, over time and through erosion, have tumbled down this ravine to start filling it with occasional chunks of stone. You begin walking through this ravine for another good 45 minutes to an hour, keeping a keen eye out.
Orion: Is this the same ravine that we're travelling across?
Matt: Basically, you guys have been traveling up the side of the coast. You've now turned inward over the mountain range to head down into the valley of Whitestone. You are currently just now heading up through the mountain range, inwards towards the mountain.
Taliesin: Is this the river?
Matt: There's no river here. It's just stone that comes together for a pathway in between. This is where two large peaks of the mountains basically come to join at the bottom.
Taliesin: Okay, so we're not at the river.
Matt: No, the river is actually inside the valley and to the south of Whitestone. So pressing down I would like you all to roll a perception check.
Laura: Jesus.
Marisha: Ah, that's all right.
Sam: One!
Laura: Natural 20!
Liam: Natural 20!
Liam: Yeah!
Matt: One, one, 20, 20.
Orion: 16.
Marisha: 14.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: Okay. As all of you guys are charging forward, both Vex and Vax, you hear this slight noise of a couple rocks (clattering) in the ravine behind you. You both turn and look and for a split second you swear you see between some of the rocks and paths of jagged stone that mark the walls of this ravine, you see a quick blur of blue that vanishes behind a higher platform above you.
Liam: Smurfs!
Laura: A blur of blue?
Matt: A large blur of blue just disappears behind one of the outcroppings that's blocking your view of higher up the ravine.
Laura: (shushes) Down. Hide.
Orion: I cast Stoneskin.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Stealth.
Orion: I fasten my Cloak of Displacement.
Laura: And I prepare--
Matt: You guys prepare for a second, and as you're all paying attention, you guys also see another shift of blue (whoosh) go across the way. And this time you see it's something large and blue that moves across the stone and goes into a small cavern that looks about 25 feet up the way that's just past your visual range from this low in the ravine.
Laura: Do we have any visual on what it could be?
Matt: It moved very quickly, and for a split second, you could see it appeared to be-- the way it moved was almost serpentine, like (whoosh) and vanished inside. You swear you saw limbs, though. It wasn't a giant snake. There was something attached to it.
Laura: (whispering) Wyvern? I look at Keyleth. Keyleth. (louder) And I whisper, but for sake of microphones, do you know of a creature that's blue, and fast, and is kind of snakey but has arms and legs?
Marisha: Let me think about it for a second. Do I know a creature that's blue and snakey?
Liam: It sounds like basilisks, but they're too slow.
Matt: What did you roll?
Marisha: I don't know. Ooh, that's 24.
Matt: 24. You've heard of various lizard-like creatures that grow to large sizes. Usually those fall into the realm of dragons and such. The color blue, though, is uncommon, unless it were a blue dragon. However, the motion of this creature does not seem to necessarily be the territory of a blue dragon. It's hard to point exactly what this is, but you do know it's probably something in the serpentine-type magical realm.
Taliesin: I heard them, I heard them describe it. Would I know it from the description? Just from my local knowledge?
Matt: Go ahead and make a history check.
Marisha: The blue thing's weird. The blue thing is what's throwing me.
Taliesin: Nine.
Matt: Nine. Unfortunately, nothing of this type has come across you. If it has, it's been too long, and you've forgotten it. There are a number of dangerous things that exist in these mountains.
Laura: I've got a really good idea. Wait. No! Grog, pick up something really heavy, and throw it as far as you can.
Travis: I go over and I grab Scanlan--
Sam: No!
Laura: A boulder or something.
Travis: I put Scanlan down. Find a large rock that's tumbled down, maybe.
Matt: Yeah, they're easy to find. There's like some that are this big, some that are larger. They're really heavy.
Travis: And I discus the thing and (whoosh).
Matt: Make an athletics check.
Travis: Well, that was great. 24.
Matt: (whoosh) You release the rock. (impact) It skids to a halt. As it does, you can see suddenly over the course (whoosh) something very quickly move, and it's a head. It's a snout. You see it's probably a good six, seven-foot wide. A giant, lizard-like, toothy jaw. Blue scales against it with large kind of horned ridges across the back of its head. And its claws (clacking) on the edge. Looks down. Looks down at the rest of you. Rears back.
Laura: It saw us?
Liam: Didn't see me.
Orion: Well, of course it saw us.
Laura: With 37 stealth, yo. It saw us?
Marisha: But it didn't seem to give a shit?
Matt: It just withdrew over the edge.
Sam: Should we run?
Laura: Maybe just move really fast away from him
Marisha: I can, I can cast Anti-Life Shell on us. Then we can haul ass really fast.
Sam: Will it move with us, your shell?
Marisha: Yeah, as long as you stay close to me. It moves with me.
Liam: Yeah, fuck this thing. Let's get out of here.
Marisha: Okay! I cast Anti-Life Shell. Stay close!
Matt: Okay. As you begin casting and finish the spell. As the sphere appears-- at which point you now see a large blue blur (whoosh) dart off of the cliffside into the air (impact noise) and skidding right in front of you guys, blocking off the side of the ravine you guys were running towards. You can now see it: a huge, elongated, serpentine body covered in blue scales and horns. You can see what looks to be six to eight arms and a series of legs all across its long, snakelike torso. As it looks it snarls at you all (snarls). And you see sparks of energy, electricity (sparking noises) in its jaw. (growls, roars)
Liam: Salamander?
Matt: And that's where we're going it end tonight! (yelling)
Laura: Oh, jeez Louise!
Sam: You can't do that!
Matt: I can, because it's 10 30.
Liam: No, it's not. It's like 8 45.
Matt: We can keep going if you guys want to stay long. It's Thursday night.
Zac: I'm coming to you with my laptop before you continue.
Liam: Who's that guy?
Matt: But to give you a little perspective, that is what essentially you'd be facing. (loud reactions)
Laura: What the fuck? It's got so many arms.
Liam: That's a kobold.
Matt: Yeah, totally. Kobold. [end of transcript]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone and good evening. Welcome to Critical Role, a show where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons. This will be our final episode for the year before we take our holiday break, and for those of you who aren't currently in the theater to see Star Wars or are not planning to leave in the next five minutes to go see Star Wars, which we do not begrudge you that whatsoever; many of us will be rushing off after this to do the same. For those of you staying with us, thank you for kicking it and may the Force be with you when this is over. So before we get started, let's go ahead and get a few announcements out of the way. One, for those of you who have been waiting extensively, because I know you have been. Tomorrow, on the website you will have the Snugglelord playlist will be premiering on GeekandSundry.com.
Zac: It's completely serious!
Matt: It's totally serious.
Marisha: So serial.
Matt: Super serial, guys. Like, so serial.
Taliesin: For real-real, not for play-play.
Matt: (laughs) The next announcement, we had our Critmas article go up earlier this week, our Critter's Guide to Critmas, where we each talk about the different charities that we represent and if you want to try and give something to the show and the goodwill we put out for that, it's a really great way to see what each of us would like to see presented or supported by the community. So if you haven't had a chance, go check it out and feel some holiday spirit to give, go ahead and pick any that are there or any of your own charities and do what you can to help. So, appreciate that guys. Also, the most recent comic went live for our Winter's Crest festival.
Liam: It's a good one.
Laura: It is a good one.
Taliesin: Grog pranking.
Marisha: Grog pranking.
Taliesin: Everybody loves Grog pranking.
Liam: It's a flight of fancy. It did not happen in our game. It should have, but it didn't.
Marisha: Yeah. It's art imitating life.
Taliesin: We had to fluff it up a bit.
Marisha: There was fluffing. Just a little massaging.
Taliesin: Especially for you, we had to, we had to fluff.
Matt: The two fluffers.
Marisha: Three.
Matt: (laughs) Yeah, so go check it out, it's a lot of fun and plays into our Winter's Crest festival this evening, though that one took place a year ago in game technically. Two years, I guess, in game-- no, it was a year because the original-- and all the events that transpired after that, there was the make-up Winter's Crest festival. You don't know what we're talking about, but you may soon.
Taliesin: Just act like you know.
Matt: Which, speaking of which, we have a little gift for you guys at the break today. We're going to have an extended mid-way break because we have a gift that we've all put together for you that I think you'll enjoy.
Taliesin: It's cool.
Laura: It's so exciting.
Matt: So, look forward to that.
Marisha: So no peeing today. No pee breaks.
Taliesin: Like Star Wars, just hold it until it's over.
Matt: Or be like me, just put in a catheter beforehand, works out really well. Don't do that, don't do that. Please don't do that. (laughs) Thanks for the support, guys. And Wyrmwood Gaming. Liam, if you want to go grab that real fast?
Liam: Wyrmwood Gaming, they make gorgeous, beautiful gaming boxes. They make lovely Christmas presents and if you use the code CritRole, you will not have to pay for shipping on your Wyrmwood Gaming order. They're gorgeous.
Travis: Smells like twenties. Natural twenties. I'm working on it. I'm polishing.
Taliesin: Keep workshopping that.
Travis: Yeah, I'm working on it.
Matt: We'll have a Sam here with us shortly.
Laura: Oh, Sam is here.
Travis: I'll go get him!
Matt: Very shortly.
Laura: Go, Travis, run like the wind!
Liam: Clarence! Bring the gnome in, Clarence!
Matt: I guess while we're waiting for him-- (laughs) Travis is going to be really disappointed. (laughter)
Liam: Ah, Grog pranked again!
Sam: It's okay, I'll go get Travis.
Taliesin: (sings Benny Hill theme)
Matt: This is the rest of our show tonight. Just three hours of this. It's going to be great. So, if you want to show the cookies that--
Taliesin: Oh, yeah. My girlfriend made cookies for-- I'll put this one on the--
Matt: On the mat, here?
Laura: I took a picture.
Marisha: Hold them closer to the camera. Hold them to the sky.
Liam: Wow, that was what that camera was purchased for.
Matt: This is now officially the cookie cam.
Laura: Raise them up, Taliesin. Raise them to the air. Closer to the camera.
Matt: How do--
Laura: You want oh wah ta goo.
Matt: How do Pike do this?
Marisha: (laughs) How do Pike do this?
Matt: How do Grog do this?
Laura: They're so cute. There's little baby Trinkets.
Travis: It's really pretty. And it makes it hard to eat.
Marisha: I like the little gingerbread, with little lederhosen and they got little goats and reindeer in lederhosen.
Laura: This is exciting, you guys.
Matt: Travis. Can you let Sam in for me?
Travis: He's already here.
Liam: Christmas TPK.
Marisha: Oh, look at that Keyleth one!
Laura: But they're so cute, I don't want to eat it.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: I'll have a snowflake, please.
Matt: Any other announcements you wish to make, or shall we go onward?
Travis: Any other announcements we should make, you fucking-- cookie-- pass arounder? Cookie distributor?
Laura: Oh! You know what, I do have something.
Liam: What's that?
Laura: Glitter Force. It's a new show. It's going to be on Netflix tomorrow. So I play the main girl, so that's exciting.
Marisha: Oh, that's awesome.
Laura: It's great for little girls.
Travis: (muffled) Super cute and funny.
Laura: Yeah it is, it's adorable and it's funny.
Liam: And 25-year-old guys.
Laura: And 25-- whoever wants to watch it.
Marisha: Are they going to make the next Bronies?
Laura: I don't know, but there are like a lot of-- I mean, it's called the Glitter Force. There are a lot of cute little make-up accessories.
Liam: I already have all the merchandise.
Laura: Yeah. I'm touching every cookie in this box.
Matt: How very Vex of you (laughs).
Taliesin: There's also some whipped cream if you want to dip.
Laura: Yes.
Marisha: Touch all the whipped cream, too.
Matt: And on that note. (laughter)
Matt: Let us go ahead and bring our way into this evening's game. So, to-- hey!
Taliesin: Sorry.
Matt: It's all good. Sam will show up; it's fine.
Travis: It's like the devil. Say his name and he will appear.
Sam: I couldn't find Travis anywhere.
Liam: Cookie icing on your lips.
Travis: You look like you literally came from the set of Mad Max. Did you just witness?
Liam: Glam rock.
Travis: Did he tell you he loved you, or what?
Sam: They had me eat--
Laura: Oh, I know what it is. Okay.
Sam: Some stuff.
Taliesin: Scanlan stocking cookie there.
Sam: Oh, that's so nice.
Matt: That's adorable. All right.
Travis: We're locked in!
Matt: Let's do this. Bring it in. So, to get you guys up to speed quickly, for those of you who are coming in fresh. Oh, what an episode to jump into. So, the intrepid group of adventurers known as Vox Machina had made their way to the city of Whitestone, a town that Percival here grew up in and had taken from him and his family five years ago, most of his family, the de Rolos, being murdered in the process. The Briarwoods, who had taken the town rather quickly and covertly held it for five years had now been building toward some sort of a ritual, some sort of event that the party was investigating. They incited a rebellion within the city of Whitestone, gathering the remaining members to take up arms and fight against this undead scourge that had kept them locked down for so long, oppressed for so long. After managing to take out some of the various operatives under the Briarwoods' regime, they made their way into Castle Whitestone itself, saved Percy's sister, Cassandra, thought dead for a long time, got vengeance upon a number of individuals that were on his List, except for Ripley, who got away. Fought their way down underneath the city of Whitestone, fell into an acid-based trap, made their way to the ziggurat, this construct beneath the city of Whitestone, where some ritual was attempting to be completed by Lady Delilah Briarwood. It was discovered that the patron they spoke of, the Whispered One, had been in previous bits of history spoken as Vecna, a powerful lich of ancient history that had attempted to ascend to godhood at some point in the past. They managed to tackle the Briarwoods, destroy Sylas, defeat Delilah, and dragging them back, decided to interrogate. In the process of trying to extract information, Percy's dark harbinger, his dark passenger, if you will... who was a tongue-waggling dog for a moment.
Taliesin: I was making an evil shadow.
Matt: I see.
Taliesin: Evil shadow.
Liam: "Kill them all, Percy. Kill them all."
Matt: Pressured to incite the vengeance that apparently the pact he made with this entity required. Upon fighting its will, it was jettisoned from his form and the party battled this deranged greater smoke demon-like entity in the center of this cavern. During this fight, Lady Briarwood tried to escape, however, found a dagger in the middle of her back, thanks to Vax over there.
Laura: Good job.
Matt: Stripped of her possessions, and then Cassandra dragging her into the nearby acid baths, tossing her body within to leave her story to a definite conclusion. Scanlan, being very astute, apparently, in some observations, and as convincing as he can be, managed to wrestle Percy's weapon, his List, his Pepperbox, from his grip, and tossed it into the very acid pits, destroying his greatest creation and in doing so, seemingly breaking whatever hold this shadow demon had on Percy's soul.
Sam: The Way of the Gun.
Travis: The Quick and the Dead.
Liam: A couple weeks in detox and you'll be fine.
Marisha: It's true.
Laura: It was an intervention, Percy.
Sam: Had to be done.
Matt: Upon returning to the city of Whitestone, they found the rebellion was successful. The undead hordes had fallen to the blades of the surviving rallying warriors of Whitestone. Keeper Yennen, who currently was the, essentially, leader of the rebellion while you guys were going into the castle, met with you. You guys were brought to the center of town, where you began to see the rest of Whitestone emerge: the families, the children, the people that had been too scared to go outside finally came out to celebrate victory, the first real breath of free air they've had in five years since the Briarwoods took the city. Some justice was doled to a few survivors of the Briarwoods' regime. And you were asked to stay behind to help rebuild and prepare for the coming Winter's Crest festival, of which you agreed. A few awkward moments and a few delightful bits of interpersonal comedy brought you guys to this point and now we begin tonight's session of Critical Role. So, to start off, leading up to this Winter's Crest festival, about a two-week period, what would you guys like to individually do in this time to prepare for the festival?
Travis: We have two weeks?
Matt: Yeah, essentially. The two-week period, we're doing a bit of a time jump here, so if there's anything in particular you want to do or attempt in this time period, now's the time to do so before we get to the actual event.
Travis: I had a question. Could I go around lifting up various wagons and maybe ponies, working out to try to increase my strength? (laughter)
Travis: Or just randomly picking shit up and not have an excuse for it. That was good, too.
Marisha: I mean, the town's in tatters. You could be productive and pick things up.
Travis: Yeah! Or you know, I pick up a hammer in the morning.
Laura: And you're helping to rebuild.
Travis: Yeah!
Sam: Like Rocky IV.
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: Yeah, in a brilliant holiday montage, as the cold weather finds its way into the valley of Whitestone, Grog goes around aiding many of the groups repairing and reassembling the glory of Whitestone, finding the structures that are broken or destroyed and trying to clean them, prepare for new building properties. You come by, eagerly lifting, carrying, dropping, slamming, and holding in place extremely heavy pieces of stone and masonry. In some cases, putting a few of the local strong men to shame and some of the local ladies, very blush-worthy in your presence. You are very happy. Go ahead and make three strength checks for me.
Travis: Oh shit, three of them. That's a 24.
Matt: Okay, second one?
Travis: That's a 22.
Matt: All right.
Travis: 22. 24, 22, 22.
Matt: Through the process of these two weeks, not only have you managed to surprise the local denizens of the city with your feats of strength and masculine physique-- as when Grog is building, Grog does so shirtless.
Travis: (laughs) As anything. Might as well get a show out of it.
Matt: In doing so, some of the local denizens pull some cash to the side to thank you for your efforts. You find at the end of the week you are granted a small pouch which contains 315 gold pieces as a thanks from the locals for all the help both in the rebellion, the freeing of Whitestone, and for your feats of magnificent musculature.
Travis: I don't feel like I should take this.
Laura: You should take it.
Travis: It's a lot of money.
Laura: You should take it.
Travis: How about you refill my cask of ale instead?
Sam: Ooh.
Liam: Happy Festivus.
Travis: And you give me one gold piece so Vex doesn't kill me.
Matt: The crowd look among themselves and one of the lead architects for this whole endeavor nods to you. "Sounds like a fair trade. If you're certain, sir."
Travis: I'm a very stringent businessman. Do hurry before I change my mind.
Matt: Gold piece is in your hand faster than you have a chance to-- you chip a tooth.
Travis: I don't understand this practice. It tastes like shit. Tastes fucking horrible.
Matt: Two casks of their precious ale roll up to the base of your foot.
Travis: (gasps) Two?!
Matt: Two.
Travis: One for each arm, eh? All right, the one that I have, I'm not stopping, until it's completely empty. Bring your goblets and cups. It's time to get fucked up.
Matt: (laughs) Fantastic. All right, Vex.
Laura: Well, I got the ring and the bracers that I need to get checked out, see what they are.
Matt: And the robe?
Liam: Oh, the robe. No, I threw it down, though.
Taliesin: You picked it up.
Liam: You picked it up.
Laura: I have the robe, too.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: We left her naked. Yes, we did.
Matt: You kind of did, actually.
Taliesin: Like properly.
Matt: A few things here, actually.
Travis: Oh Vex, I made gold.
Laura: Oh wow, thank you, that's amazing, Grog. Where did you find this piece of gold?
Travis: Oh, I got it for fixing a bunch of shit around town. Are you going to taste it?
Laura: No, I'm not. It's already got a lot of drool on it, actually.
Travis: But how do you know if it's gold if you don't taste it?
Laura: I'm just going to put it in with the rest of the gold, Grog.
Travis: Shit. I'm going to pull one over on her one of these days. Can you make things look like they're gold?
Sam: I can, actually.
Travis: You can?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: All right.
Travis: I've had my thought for the day, there's nothing else.
Sam: When you have the punchline, let me know.
Travis: It's a standby TV symbol right now. That's all I got.
Matt: So, as you take some time, first off, I want you to go ahead and roll an investigation check.
Laura: Aw man, I've got to roll for this? I'm going to roll one of my new dice. Well, it's for--
Matt: What was that sound?
Laura: It was exciting! 24.
Matt: 24, okay. So as you begin pulling out the items and begin separating, before you can even begin the initial inspection, as you are pulling the robe out, you find there is a slight poke. There's something thin--
Laura: (singing) Feel a little poke coming through.
Matt: Not that kind of poke. You unravel that part of the robe and find there's a long deep pocket on the inside of the robe. And inside, there's a long gnarled piece of deep maroon wood that is carved into a wand shape.
Sam: What kind of a wand?
Matt: I'm trying to find the actual item card here. Found it! There we go.
Sam: I want it.
Laura: Oh my god.
Sam: I want it.
Laura: Oh, did you find it? Did you find it in the group? Are you even standing near me right now, as I'm seeing this wand?
Sam: Of course I am. I'm always with you.
Laura: How do you know I'm not doing it in my room?
Sam: Are you?
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: What's she wearing right now?
Sam: Why I am in your room?!
Laura: Scanlan, get out of here, I'm naked.
Sam: Oh I know, I came in here to tell you, to ask you something: where's my wand? (laughter)
Laura: Ugh, I've got to look at this a bit more before I give this to you because it is very, very good. It is a Wand of Fireballs, by the way, people. It has seven charges; while holding it, you can use an action to expend one or more of its charges to cast the Fireball spell, DC of 15, one charge you cast at third level-- so many words. I don't even understand.
Liam: A fan art of this moment, please?
Laura: But also--
Matt: You recall, actually, as you went over the top at the initial battle with Lady Briarwood, that was what she pulled out and managed to blast all of you with at once when you all were on the top of the temple.
Laura: Nice. I'm just going to put this in my pocket.
Liam: I thought you were naked.
Laura: I'll put it in the pocket of the outfit I'm about to put on. And then the ring and the bracers?
Matt: I'll get those right now. There you go.
Laura: Wait, Grog, don't sit down.
Taliesin: This is why it's Christmas.
Sam: Where's my ring?
Marisha: What's the ring do?
Laura: Oh my god. I found so many amazing things, you guys.
Travis: Those are bracers--
Laura: No!
Sam: Those are mine. I found them.
Travis: Grog will believe whatever you say.
Laura: No! I'm reading them all; they're mine! Ring of Lightning Resistance. Who wants a Ring of Lightning Resistance?
Sam: Sure.
Laura: Bracers of Defense. Who needs extra defense? You're really weak. Your AC's super low, isn't it?
Liam: It is.
Matt: Bracers of Defense will technically only really benefit anybody who's not wearing armor.
Liam: Not wearing armor?
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: Like Grog?
Matt: Like monks.
Laura: There you go.
Liam: Thank goodness, because he is a blushing flower in the wind.
Matt: If you currently have-- is it an amulet that helps your armor? We'll go through your AC and find out if it overlaps with any other benefits.
Travis: I do have the Amulet of Armor.
Matt: Right, so basically that would replace that and you would now have an amulet slot open for any sort of future enchantment stuff.
Liam: I'll take the amulet.
Matt: You could give the amulet to somebody else if you want to.
Liam: He'll never give it to me.
Marisha: He was willing to do it until you gave him the idea to not do it.
Liam: That's fine.
Travis: Can't remind me of these things.
Laura: Okay, a Robe of Shielding Shadows. Can it be worn with armor?
Matt: No.
Laura: Oh man. It's just a robe. It's her dress, basically, and it gives you resistance to piercing damage.
Liam: You know what we can do with that? Sell it.
Sam: Or give it to me.
Laura: You have armor, dude.
Sam: Oh, okay.
Marisha: It takes an armor slot.
Laura: And it's a woman's robe.
Sam: I can make that work.
Laura: Yeah, you totally could.
Marisha: Can we take the fabric and sew it into a nice afghan or something?
Matt: You can certainly try. It would probably ruin the enchantment.
Laura: Oh, it would ruin the enchantment? If you sew it differently?
Marisha: What if you don't cut into it?
Laura: What if we fold it?
Taliesin: What if we just tie the dress around our neck?
Laura: Maybe just put your arms through it and then let it ride behind you like a cape?
Marisha: Right, it's like one of those "wear nine different ways" dresses?
Matt: You can wear it however you want and you will discover one way or another if it actually gives an effect.
Laura: Well, I'm just going to pocket this because we may sell it, how about that. And then, a Ring of Lightning Resistance, anybody want it? How many rings can we wear at one time?
Matt: Two. One on each hand.
Taliesin: I would not say no to a Ring of Lightning Resistance.
Laura: Pass that over to Percy.
Taliesin: I've got plans. At the moment, it's the only way to charge my glove.
Laura: All right, and this Wand of Fireballs? I feel like Scanlan needs it more than anyone else.
Sam: I already have a wand that shoots things.
Liam: You're the only one who can use it.
Sam: Oh, I'm the only one who can use it? I'll take it, then.
Laura: I might just sell this robe, though.
Travis: I know how you work it, it's swish and flick. Fireball.
Laura: Swish and flick.
Matt: What could possibly go wrong?
Travis: What if a non-spellcaster uses a wand? Nothing, right?
Laura: No. Anyone can use it.
Travis: Should we try it?
Liam: Yes, you should try it.
Travis: I am a walking crash test dummy. I mean, we can try it. It'll be fine.
Matt: That's my favorite mindset.
Laura: And then I'm going to mostly for the rest of the time, keep to myself and Trinket and I'm going to help the townspeople rebuild a bit.
Matt: All right. Wondrous. Vax?
Liam: I am also going to keep to myself and I'm going to talk to the people in town, see what businesses are open or trying to open, see what they need. And I would like to talk to Percy, since I don't know anyone here, about who I could talk to about getting messages to Emon, and I would like to get a message to Gilmore, to see if he can fill any need here. If trade is so ruined here, that Gilmore could be a help. And Gilmore gets another front, a place to do business and actually do good in a place that needs it.
Marisha: Gilmore's Glorious Books.
Sam: That's right.
Laura: I like it.
Matt: Over bits of a period of discussion, for the most part, any sort of non-official courier service has been negated in the town. However, there is now a glut of people that are, after the devastation, especially the ensuing rebellion, folks that need work and need coin and there are many individuals that would be more than willing to, for a handful of gold coins, make the journey to Emon delivering any messages you like.
Liam: Well, I will write a message to Gilly and say that they're hurting here. They need trade, all the supplies that he's able to supply and tell him that this town is about to explode and is definitely a good place for his wares.
Laura: Are you going to break up with him in the letter too? Are you going to tell him that you're going to break his heart as soon as he writes you back? Is that what's going to happen? I'm sorry, I'm just looking at your letter as you're writing it.
Liam: No, because I've been avoiding her as well. I'm avoiding everybody except for Percival, who I've been asking advice from.
Matt: Okay. Do you also have the cloak? Did you take the cloak?
Liam: I have the cloak, yeah. Yeah, dibs on that.
Matt: Fine pickings off the corpses of the two major villains of the previous arc.
Liam: Yes.
Taliesin: More corpse picking to do.
Matt: Exactly.
Laura: What?! You have so many cloaks, though. Why do you need another one?
Sam: He's opening a cloak factory.
Taliesin: Gilmore's Glorious Cloaks.
Matt: Cloak hoarding over here. All right, Scanlan.
Sam: I wanted to do four things.
Travis: Yeah!
Sam: One, compose an epic poem to commemorate the rebels rising up against the empire that had kept them down for so long. Sort of a force that had awakened. I call it... Resident Evil. I don't know why. Because they're residents and there was evil. I couldn't come up with another name for it. They're residents of the town and there was an evil. That's all. So, I'm looking for a publisher.
Matt: Okay, good. There may be a grand opportunity at the Winter's Crest festival to perform this.
Sam: Oh-- gulp.
Liam: Disney and Capcom will be calling.
Sam: I also wanted to make sure that we were using the treasury, coordinating with Percy to open a library for the people to help them rebuild their place, which sounds like Vax is already on. I also commissioned a portrait of myself. I don't know if you-- I found a young artisan in town that I paid him some coin to paint me something that could possibly hang in the keep, at Greyskull, in the dining room.
Matt: Okay. After asking around for a few days, you manage to discover there is a budding local artist who doesn't really believe in his artwork. He currently works in the stables on the far southwest side of town. But people have seen some of his work and tried to bolster him, so you're sent in his direction and as you get there, you can see him. He's currently in the process of actually cutting through one of his recent works he wasn't happy with and he's violently tearing through it. As you step into the stable, he stops and puts it off to the side. "Sorry, sir, can I help you?"
Sam: Ah, hello. My name is Scanlan Shorthalt. I was the leader of the rebellion that just defeated Lord and Lady Briarwood.
Matt: "Oh! The pleasure is mine." He is now averting his gaze and almost bowing his head like you're royalty. He's very flustered and flushed by the sudden appearance.
Sam: I hear you are a budding artist and I am, if nothing else, a supporter of the arts.
Matt: "My talents are far unrefined and nowhere near powerful or decent enough for your attentions."
Sam: Well, I believe in you. And I need you for a very important commission. A great good has been done here by the rebels, by the townspeople, with the help of Vox Machina and of course, with the help of Vox Machina's leader, myself. Therefore, I'm here to commission a humble portrait of myself. You may not know him, but there was a folk hero in my town growing up. His name was Fabio. He would frequently pose with windblown hair and an open shirt on a horse. I was thinking something like that, and also I have this figure of Pike. She's a friend of mine. I'd like her on the back of the horse, arms around my waist, looking super hot. If that's possible.
Matt: Make a persuasion check. Only because he's so down on his own skills.
Sam: 33. (laughter)
Matt: As you're telling this tale, he goes from bashful and meek to staring off in the distance, the artistic inspiration rolling through his head.
Sam: Oh. Sorry, 31. I was wrong.
Matt: Unchanged. He begins finishing your sentences as you're describing scenery and extrapolating on it. You can see the artistic mind is definitely spinning. He looks to you and goes, "It would be my honor. Please." He reaches forward and takes your gnomish hand and you know, you're about two and a half feet shorter than him, but he's still very humble, kneels down and says, "I would be honored to do this portrait. No charge."
Sam: Please, I insist. I must give you something for your troubles.
Matt: "Whatever you deem fit, Sir Gnome, but I--"
Sam: What's your name, young sir?
Matt: "Jameson."
Sam: Jameson?
Liam: I like him.
Sam: I like this guy.
Travis: I think everybody does-- until they don't.
Sam: How about in return, I will sing your praises far and wide as the greatest artist in-- where are we? Whitestone. Whiteheart. Briarstone. Heartwood.
Matt: In making that mention, his openness suddenly closes off and he withdraws. You see this fear in his eyes and he shakes his head. "That would be untrue and I am but a simple stablehand. I can do this for you, but please, if you could keep this between us."
Sam: All right. I'm aware that some people like to be discreet about things and that's all right with me, too. Then I'll pay you the going rate for portraits of me.
Matt: "Certainly. How large would you like it?"
Sam: How big is the wall at Greystone Keep?
Matt: Depends on which area.
Sam: The dining room wall.
Travis: (laughing) That's like Sistine Chapel!
Matt: Your dining area's probably about 12 to 15 feet high.
Sam: High? Okay, and wide?
Matt: Wide? I'd say, off the top of my head, somewhere between 40 and 50 feet.
Sam: Well, I'd like to leave room for other artwork, as well. We'll say 20 by six.
Travis: (laughing) 20 by six?
Marisha: (laughing) 20 by six?
Sam: Well, it's half and half. 20 wide, six high.
Matt: His eyes go wide and he nods and says, "This is a challenge. But I believe I do know someone whom I can order such a grand canvas from. This can be done. This can be done." And you see he smiles and takes your hand once again. "This can be done."
Sam: Thank you, sir. Jameson, was it?
Matt: "Jameson, yes."
Sam: You have done a noble deed for your people and for the rebel forces.
Matt: "Eclipsed by the deeds you have done, Sir Gnome."
Sam: Oh, that is true. (laughter)
Matt: He rushes off to prepare himself.
Sam: And then, one last thing. On a serious note, I do some research to see if me, or any one of my party could, over time and with great effort, learn the skills required to utilize a teleportation circle.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and make an arcana check.
Sam: Not great. Arcana? 11.
Matt: Yeah. What little you know of teleportation-based magics, which is not your forte in your bardic experiences, but what you've heard and what you've seen, while you've traveled with Tiberius, and you've come across other individuals that used the arcane spells that caused transport, teleportation circles themselves are a very specific ritual. It's a spell that comes from within the arcane caster's capabilities. If you yourself do not have that, you're not going to be able to utilize it at a drop of a hat. After asking around, you find there once was a teleportation destination circle in Castle Whitestone that was part of the network of Tal'Dorei, in Emon, but has since been destroyed and sundered and has been for quite some time. You imagine probably when the Briarwoods came, it was deemed a dangerous little loose thread. So, over the period of the next week or so, best you can ascertain is that type of transportation here is going to be probably not likely, at least not with the resources you have at your disposal. You may have to travel elsewhere.
Sam: It's not a skill I can learn?
Matt: It's a spell you could learn, but that would be something you would have to swap out as you level up or choose as your spell progression down the road.
Sam: All right.
Liam: I find it's better to travel the world rather than use fast travel.
Laura: I agree. You see so much more of it.
Liam: You miss everything.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: All the artistic--
Liam: Every nook and cranny, yeah.
Matt: But you do, as part of your group's discussions throughout the week, discover that Keyleth does have long-transport capabilities.
Sam: Ooh, hello Keyleth. Fly the friendly skies.
Matt: You want to explain what you can do?
Marisha: I have Teleport via Plants. So I can bamf through the Sun Tree. We can all--
Sam: We can all?
Marisha: We can all.
Liam: You mean like a big plant?
Matt: It opens for six seconds, a portal--
Marisha: For one round, I can be like, this tree is a portal and we walk through the tree and it goes to another tree as long as I know of that tree's existence.
Laura: And it's the same size, right? It has to be something of the same size? Or it can be any tree?
Marisha: It has to be walkable body-size.
Matt: A large or larger tree as far as this size.
Laura: Trinket and Grog-sized trees.
Sam: That sounds like it would be the quickest "root" to go.
Taliesin: (groans)
Liam: Is there a tree in your garden back at Greyskull?
Marisha: There is. I made sure there was a nice--
Laura: Big old fatty tree.
Marisha: Big old fatty oak tree.
Matt: There's actually two large trees, I believe, in the Sarenrae temple.
Laura: I forgot to say what else I wanted to do.
Matt: What else do you want to do?
Laura: Well, because of that flying potion, I wanted to try to do some research and see how much flying potions are, if there's any kind of items that can make you fly whenever you want?
Travis: She liked it.
Laura: I really liked it.
Matt: (laughs) The first taste is free.
Laura: I know. I mean, I know the carpet's gone, but maybe there's like an individual sort of item that's less expensive than a flying carpet, I don't know. Just wondering.
Matt: You still have the flying potion--
Laura: I downed it!
Matt: Right, the card I gave you for it. Because that would contain the cost of that particular one.
Laura: Oh.
Travis: 5,250.
Liam: You have a robe.
Laura: Well, but I want a bunch of them, though.
Matt: Which you can have made or possibly look about to have purchased. This town is pretty thin as far as--
Laura: Magic stuff?
Matt: Yeah. Most of anything of worth, of an arcane nature was confiscated and utilized or essentially melted down for its residuum components as part of the creation of the ziggurat, in preparation for their ritual. So, other than the items you were given when you first arrived here, you're hard-pressed to find anything in this town of that type. But asking around, there are enchantments that can gift flight, but they're pretty rare.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: Talk to Gilmore.
Matt: Gilmore would be the person to talk to about that. You good, Scanlan?
Sam: Oh, I'm good.
Matt: All right. Keyleth?
Marisha: Well, Keyleth is very confused as to why everyone seems to be avoiding each other. It's odd. Everyone's so standoffish. Anyway, Keyleth is going to go help the farmers and try and maybe help revitalize some of the land and help with planting crops, and helping out there. She also wants to make sure all the local kids are taken care of. Any kids that lost their parents in the rebellion. Lead the charge of making sure the kids are taken care of.
Matt: Okay. Going around, there were a number of casualties in the town as part of the rebellion. It unfortunately happens in warfare, regardless of how noble a cause it may be. There are a few families that were left fatherless or motherless, as there was quite a share of the sexes raising up for this battle. So the children that-- no one that you know of lost both parents, for the most part. There was the intent that if there were a parental unit, that at least one had to stay in case of such an occurrence to raise the children. But you go out and meet with some of the families and make sure they're taken care of. Some of the homes that were destroyed as part of the rebellion, you and Grog both worked together to help make sure the process of rebuilding goes well. You do also help the farmers begin to right their crops and revitalize the land, which had been drained by the necromantic essence of the Briarwoods' presence, and whatever the ziggurat was pulling from the land itself beneath seems to have released its hold on the immediate vicinity. So, through your aid specifically, being a druid of your nature, you prepare this for probably one of the finest harvests that Whitestone has had in quite a long time. Even though it is deep winter, they're already seeing early spring growth through your aid.
Marisha: Dope. Climate change.
Matt: I know, it's crazy. Vegetation and vegetables that are withstanding and still able to grow through the frost in the mornings, as the cold weather is coming from the winter, so you're raising quite a strong crop. Well done.
Marisha: We'll have Thanksgiving in about nine months.
Matt: (laughs) There you go.
Taliesin: For the orphans, man.
Marisha: For the orphans.
Matt: Percival?
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to spend most of my time organizing the affairs of the castle and the local government and making sure that there's institutions in place, getting rid of anybody who might still have sympathies towards the Briarwoods. Helping re-establish the Zenith and the Ladies' Chamber. Spending some time with my sister.
Matt: On that note, before you continue, there is no current institution in place. Anyone of any political power outside of Archibald, you, and Cassandra, has been slaughtered long past. So in these discussions, you talk with Keeper Yennen, you talk to Cassandra, and there is an air of understanding that right now, there is this period of peace, this period of calm, but there has to eventually be an establishment put into place: some sort of political head to oversee the rebuilding of the city and the continued growth and survival of this town proper. Cassandra confides in you multiple times that she is nervous, that she, especially given recent circumstances, her recovery of her Stockholm syndrome with the Briarwoods, is not confident that she would be able to lead on her own. There is a moment where she apologizes extensively to Archibald. Archibald, who did survive, and was her direct contact in the castle, takes a few days before he will even face Cassandra when he is told that she essentially had been leading him astray and spearheading the death of the previous rebellion. You also discover the reason the various new nobles that were prepared for your ambushes were because Cassandra had gotten information about that from Archibald and then fed it to the Briarwoods. But you do sense a very, very deep-seated regret and an urge to make amends for that from her. And because of that circumstance, she doesn't feel like the people of Whitestone, who would have this information, which you haven't told anyone. There is no large-scale announcement. The only people that know about Cassandra's current situation with the Briarwoods are you guys, Keeper Yennen, and Archibald.
Sam: Archibald's still around?
Matt: He is.
Sam: And he betrayed us?
Laura: No.
Marisha: No.
Laura: Cassandra betrayed him.
Liam: Cassandra played everybody.
Sam: Oh. All right, I'll let him live.
Laura: Thank you, glorious leader. Thank you.
Sam: Just part of the team, guys.
Matt: So that is an ongoing discussion. As far as establishing the structure, there's been many talks, but nothing has been fine-tuned, and that may play itself out as part of the festival.
Taliesin: I have two items that I would like to look at. Well, I have three items that I would like to look at. Sylas's sword and his amulet.
Matt: Okay. The brooch that he left behind.
Taliesin: Brooch!
Matt: Travis has got you.
Taliesin: Really, Travis?
Laura: He's our runner.
Liam: Oh, ho ho ho, and all of that!
Laura: What is it?
Marisha: What is it, what is it?
Taliesin: Damn.
Laura: Is it amazing?
Liam: He's standing there like Guile before a Street Fighter match.
Matt: He hasn't heard of that character.
Laura: (laughs) What is it? What do you have?
Taliesin: I don't know, it's a piece of paper. It's pretty cool. It's called a Brooch of Living Essence and it basically masks the wearer's alignment, essence, whether they're good or evil, they can't be seen by Detect Magic spells.
Liam: That is the worst thing for you.
Laura: Not anymore!
Taliesin: Is it?
Liam: I'm unsure. It's hard to tell.
Matt: You gather that this item in particular was used by Sylas to travel through magically protected areas without giving up his undead essence or being read for his true intentions.
Marisha: It's for a shifty bastard. It's definitely a shifty bastard thing.
Laura: It's for Scanlan.
Sam: Oh, me? My alignment's good.
Marisha: Yeah, but it could be good if you want to pretend to be evil.
Taliesin: Either this or Vax. This would be an interesting thing for either--
Marisha: It doesn't protect you against Detect Magic spells. It protects you against Detect Good or Evil spells and magic spells that reveal your true nature.
Sam: True nature.
Liam: It would be a good thing.
Laura: So you could pretend to be bad.
Taliesin: What do you have in your-- brooch?
Liam: My brooch?
Matt: It's in the neck slot.
Liam: Nothing.
Taliesin: Nothing in your neck slot?
Laura: That sounds so disgusting.
Liam: My neck slot (laughs). I don't know, Percy. What have I got in my neck slot?
Matt: You see the brooch slowly press deep in his neck slot (laughs). God. Ugh. Don't turn that into any fan fiction, please.
Taliesin: Don't say that!
Matt: I know. Percy, what else?
Taliesin: The sword.
Matt: The sword.
Sam: That is a big piece of paper.
Liam: That's a rather big piece of paper for a sword.
Taliesin: And Ripley's gun.
Matt: Well, first, as you take the sword in your hands, the large, thick obsidian, onyx black blade. You take a while to, not necessarily attune to it, but put enough of your attention towards it where you sense its magical capabilities. As it begins to clarify, where one voice before was not there, a new voice speaks and says--
Marisha: Wait!
Liam: (shushing noises) This is important.
Taliesin: Goddamn it.
Matt: "You, are you my new wielder?"
Laura: What?
Sam: He's got a talking sword!
Marisha: What's with you and fucking weapons, man?
Taliesin: (whimpers)
Laura: Be strong, Percy!
Liam: You're not here.
Taliesin: No. (laughter)
Matt: "Then leave me until one worthy lifts this blade."
Taliesin: I'm going to gently put it down.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: This is a sword that has a name!
Taliesin: I don't know what to do about this (laughs). This is really disturbing.
Matt: As you step away from the blade, you can feel the air nearby is generally colder in its presence, and where previously it was just a weapon, you can almost feel like there's something looking at you. There's a presence just bent towards you, expectantly.
Laura: That's creepy!
Taliesin: (whimpers)
Sam: Just try it out! What could go wrong?
Liam: Do you want to become evil, Grog?
Travis: I can tame it.
Taliesin: (laughs) Wow--
Liam: Don't do it, Percy.
Travis: What does it say?
Laura: What does it say?
Sam: What does it say?
Taliesin: I don't think I should tell any of you.
Matt: The blade sits there on the ground where you leave it, whatever you wish to do with it.
Travis: Do you want to put it in the Bag?
Taliesin: God, you've given me so much to think about. It's really unfortunate. I'm definitely going to take at least a week of our two weeks to think about the sword.
Matt: Okay. What are you going to do with it in the meantime?
Liam: Sleep on top of it.
Taliesin: Sleep on top of it. It's in my room.
Travis: You don't want it in the Bag?
Taliesin: No.
Matt: So, for each evening as you lay down to sleep, you can feel a voice creep back in to say-- The voice is inquisitive. "I'm useless left here. I seek the thrill of battle. I'm hungry." Other evenings, it comes to you, almost pleading. "Why have you forsaken me? You took me as a trophy. What purpose has a blade that goes unused? I will remember this." Then it falls silent after a few days.
Travis: The silent treatment.
Laura: It's sulking.
Taliesin: Is it a two-handed sword or a one-handed sword?
Matt: It's a greatsword. It's two-handed, big old Final Fantasy 7 sword.
Taliesin: Goddamn it.
Sam: Evil Grog is not a good idea.
Marisha: This is the thing that's fucked up.
Taliesin: Yeah, I know, which is why I shouldn't have given him that brooch. Goddamn it. I may ask for that brooch back.
Liam: You can certainly try.
Taliesin: God damn it.
Travis: (laughs) Whoa.
Matt: So, as you think on it, the weeks pass--
Taliesin: No, I had a--
Matt: Oh, what did you guys want to do?
Taliesin: I also wanted to work on Ripley's gun.
Matt: Right. The gun itself is essentially a baseline pistol. If you look in your archetype for your fighter class of gunslinger, the pistol mechanics all apply to that weapon. Beyond that, nothing in particular. It's just her first successful attempt in recreating a firearm.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm going to start making some ammo for it. And I'm going to work on it.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Percy, whenever you get a chance, could you, maybe-- how hard are those exploding arrows to make? Super-duper hard?
Taliesin: Not terribly difficult. I don't think it's in two weeks, but when we go home, I'll work on it. I know, I like them too... I hate you. You're a terrible person.
Matt: You picked up the sword, man.
Travis: Percy, how's that sword working out?
Taliesin: It's a little big, actually.
Travis: Is it? Look, I have this one-handed Dragonslayer Longsword if you want to get used to a bit of badassery before you move up to the big leagues. I know you've got that dinky piece of shit you've been using this whole time.
Matt: Just as a note, too, a greatsword is a strength-based melee weapon. Dex does not play into it.
Taliesin: Oh, which is-- well, yeah.
Matt: Based on whatever your strength is. What's your strength, Percy?
Taliesin: Strength is 12.
Matt: You would probably not do very well with that.
Taliesin: Which is why I was thinking about having it cut down and melted down into something more useful.
Matt: This is also viable, if you wanted to try.
Travis: (whispering) Dragon-slayer Longsword.
Taliesin: You know, this is actually pretty badass if I did give it to Grog. Yeah.
Travis: Trade!
Marisha: Jesus Christ! And he's not even going to say anything about it. You're a terrible person, not Matt, you are. He gave you the device and you used it!
Liam: You've been playing D&D for years. You know what this means!
Taliesin: I'm going to let you know we should keep an eye on him, just in case.
Matt: So, Grog. As you take up the blade in your hands, you hear coming out of the ether, a gentle, low velvet voice caresses the inside of your head saying, "You, are you to be my wielder?"
Travis: What the shit?
Matt: "Speak your name, warrior."
Travis: Grog.
Matt: "Warrior Grog, have you taken up the blade of Craven Edge?"
Travis: Is that what this is? Do you have a female setting? (laughter)
Matt: You hear a long, drawn-out sigh. "Do you accept my power?"
Travis: There's a power that comes with you? What kind of power?
Matt: "Do you enjoy drinking the strength of your foes, watching them beaten before you, and have that very power become your own?"
Travis: Sounds pretty good.
Matt: "Do you wish the shadows to encase your form and grant you resilience and anger, forcing those to kneel before you in fear."
Travis: The shadows?
Matt: "Do you accept, Grog?"
Travis: Fuck yeah. (laughter)
Matt: "Then it is done. Together, we will accomplish great things."
Travis: Do you have a name? Do I call upon you? Can I call you Bacon?
Matt: "You call me Bacon and this blade will cut the very hand you hold. My name is Craven Edge. It will do you well to remember that."
Travis: Right. Yep. Was totally kidding about the bacon, Craven Edge. Well, I'm excited about this partnership. Clearly we will be a force to be reckoned with. By the way, can other people hear you?
Matt: Silence.
Travis: Shit.
Liam: He will kill me first.
Taliesin: It is an amazing sword.
Travis: I haven't even read it yet.
Taliesin: You haven't read it yet?
Travis: No. I can't read! (laughter)
Laura: I want to read it so bad!
Liam: Don't let anybody read it.
Taliesin: It's so magical.
Travis: Give me a bear cookie.
Matt: You have a clue as to what it can do based on when it was used against you by Sylas.
Travis: Yeah, it was badass. Thank you.
Matt: So, anything else you want to accomplish before we close out on the rest of the week?
Sam: I had a question.
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Did we assemble a team of magic--
Laura: To take care of the thingy?
Marisha: Yeah, that we needed to-- we all need to take care of that.
Laura: The marble of death?
Matt: So, throughout the week, Keeper Yennen, a few of the low-level arcanists that exist here--
Laura: Didn't we send for Eskil Ryndarien?
Matt: You sent for him, but you know information right now travels at the speed of whatever it is you--
Marisha: By mule?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: At speed of mule.
Matt: The speed of that as it continues forward. You get word back. Nothing from Allura Vysoren yet. Eskil does respond, saying he is currently finishing up some personal business, but will make his way towards Whitestone within a couple weeks, with some of his compatriots who may also be of aid. Information has been gotten across, but it won't be until probably after this festival for them to begin their investigation. However, in the meantime, Keeper Yennen and a few of the smaller local arcanists do make a couple trips down to inspect the ziggurat themselves. When they return, Yennen is at a loss. Most of them don't quite understand the nature of the magic there. It seems to be immobile. It seems to be completely either negating, consuming, or preventing any sort of magical force within a specific radius of it. A lot of their normal arcane methods of inspecting or divine methods of inspecting this site are not functional. This is more like bring old tomes and research historical records of things that may be similar to this. So when you bring up that you had reached out to Eskil Ryndarien with the information you had, you gather that will probably be a much more fruitful endeavor. As of right now, no one has any clue what this is.
Laura: And we searched the Briarwoods' library that they had gathered together that say anything about--
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Some of the information you acquired from Scanlan's memory and a little bit of research into Vecna. Very little information really exists, but as the keeper of secrets, you get the sense that most anything of importance in dealing with this ritual has been destroyed as part of its preparation because secrets are meant to be kept and hoarded. So not much luck in that regard, unfortunately. However, as the second week draws to a close, the Winter's Crest day comes forward. As the morning crests into the proper Winter's Crest festival, you all awaken in Castle Whitestone to an unusually cold morning. As you look out, there is a fresh dusting of white snow that has gently caressed the entirety of this valley and the entire city itself. You all get yourselves ready, gather your belongings and preparing for the festival you've been helping get ready this entire week, you walk down towards Whitestone itself. As you get to the outskirts of the city, you can already hear in the distance music beginning to play. Blue and white ribbons are hung up all throughout the town, on the outside of buildings, outside of taverns, outside of even the remaining wreckage that is only partially built. It seems that overnight, people just went through the town and decorated whatever needed to be decorated to wipe clean the memory of the recent trials and difficulty that everyone's undergone. You begin to make your way towards the center of the town, to the town square where the Sun Tree is, and as you approach, you now see the source of the music, as a number of individuals in the town have brought out their instruments. They're playing, some more discordant than others, but overall, a sense of joy as people for the first time in a long time are truly embracing this positive atmosphere. You see children laughing and running through the streets. You can smell fresh-cooked pies and various bakery items just filling the air around you. Looking over, as you approach the Sun Tree, you can see where once bodies hung from its boughs, there now are strings of blue and white ribbons that are intertwined with each other, braided and set across from branch to branch. You can see fine little glass structures that have been hand blown and left to drape from them to be part of the festivities. As you begin to make your way up there, immediately people begin to notice your presence, and you can see people in the streets begin to gather up and begin cheering. You hear voices mutter out, "Vox Machina!" People start reaching out and shaking your hands. "Thank you so much, thank you." You're taken aback by the attention. It's reminding you a little bit of the awkwardness you had with the last Winter's Crest in Emon.
Laura: Be on the lookout for eggs, giant frosty-looking eggs.
Matt: You make your way towards the Sun Tree and there you see Keeper Yennen is in the process of speaking with a few of the people that helped him with this entire rebellion, in setting up this event, and he greets you all as you approach. "Oh, my friends! How wondrous. Glad to see you are all wakened and ready and well rested, I assume."
Travis: Yes.
Matt: "Glorious. Well, this is a day of celebration. We've taken the time and mourning shall continue as needed, but today, today is to embrace what it means to be alive, to thwart the darkness and the evils that press upon the free folk of these lands. And of course, to eat and drink until you are full and drunk." (laughter)
Marisha: Cheers to that.
Matt: "It will be a little bit before we get to the actual celebration speech, but in the meantime, go free yourselves, drink, be merry. There are a few events going on around you." And he points in a few directions, and you can see around you there are tables set up, there are individuals playing games. Immediately to the left, you can see there are two long tables set up and a stack of pies off to one side, looks like an eating contest.
Travis: I haven't eaten for a full day.
Marisha: In preparation?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: You do see what looks to be a gentleman with a high box, with a very, very fine waxed mustache that is currently doing parlor tricks and magical presentations for people who are trading coin to be astounded with his illusions. You can see what looks to be a series of tables behind the Sun Tree heading towards the southeast side of it. You recognize better than anyone: these are central tables, relatively small, with a chair on each side.
Travis: Arm wrestling! (laughter)
Travis: Craven, I think-- oh wait, that's arm wrestling. Go to sleep.
Matt: The sigh is getting more and more impatient.
Travis: He'll get used to that.
Matt: So these are the three first events you come across in your immediate vicinity. What would any of you guys like to partake in?
Marisha: I see the magic tricks and go (loud gasp) and run over, without saying anything.
Sam: I tag along.
Taliesin: Oh, I'll go in for this one as well.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: As you guys rush forward, you come to the box. It's a relatively high box. It looks like it hasn't seen some use in a while. The gentleman sitting there, with longish hair, parted in the center, and combs outward. He's got a waxed mustache. He's wearing dusty presentational robes and he has on the top of it a series of small boxes and what looks like various tricks he has at the ready. There are three children off to the side with either their keeper or parents behind. "Now watch, if you will, as this simple ball transports itself between the cups and yet find your eyes unable to follow." And he switches the cups around for a moment. (whoosh) (laughter)
Matt: "Where is the ball, little one?" The kids deliberate and one goes, "That one!" "Are you sure?" They all shake their head. "Oh! I'm sorry, the ball has escaped your vision once again." And they all they cheer. He lifts the other one.
Marisha: (gasps), are you a wizard? We've met a few wizards. No, are you a sorcerer? Because you don't look like a druid. This doesn't look like natural magic. What?
Matt: "I am what you refer to as an illusionist. And I can play tricks on your mind, your mind, your mind..."
Marisha: (shouting) No! God, we've been through way too much of that here lately.
Sam: It's entertainment.
Matt: "Playful! Playful illusions, not against..."
Sam: It's just a game.
Taliesin: Carry on. It's good. She's good.
Matt: "Keep her in check, please. You're scaring the children."
Sam: It's not real. It's a game. It's going to be fine.
Marisha: (whispers) Okay. I don't trust this guy.
Sam: Don't worry. Why don't you have Percival take the first turn?
Matt: "I'm also a diviner. I can look into your eyes and see your very future."
Taliesin: Not really. It's okay.
Matt: "For a simple gold piece, you can test your skills against the transference of this ethereal ball. Or for five, I can look into your fate."
Marisha: (starts hyperventilating)
Taliesin: I'll do both, actually.
Matt: "Ha ha. All right." Takes the gold piece.
Marisha: I grab him by the scruff and I say, if you hurt him... You don't know what he's been through, okay?
Matt: "It's fine. It's all right."
Marisha: Are you working with the Briarwoods? Did the Briarwoods send you?!
Matt: "Can you please get her off of me?"
Sam: Hey, kids, this is why you shouldn't drink during the daytime.
Matt: "Anyway."
Marisha: Do your magic.
Matt: "So, sir." Takes one gold piece off, sets it aside. "Now, the ethereal ball. This was taken from the Far Realms themselves, crafted in the ivy-covered hills in the far North End, the Feywild itself. How could you follow this, with but your simple vision?" He places one cup over it, two cups to the side and begins shifting and shifting. Go ahead and make a perception check.
Marisha: Oh, him? Okay.
Taliesin: 20.
Matt: You see now, there's a couple moments where the ball shifts between cups and you get a really close idea of exactly how this works. And when he finishes, he looks to you. "Now, where is the fey ball?"
Taliesin: I would say it's to your right, right there.
Matt: "That one?" (laughter)
Matt: "Are you sure? It could be anywhere on this table."
Taliesin: It could, but it's there. Because it's not anywhere else other than there.
Sam: I'm not so sure about that, Percy.
Taliesin: Well, you're welcome to go in, if you like.
Sam: I choose the one on the left.
Taliesin: You'll have to give him a gold coin, though.
Sam: Sure. (ding)
Matt: He takes the gold coin. "Do you wish to choose for this one instead, then?"
Taliesin: No, I'm choosing on the right.
Matt: Takes the gold piece. "And with that-- You found it, yay." (laughter)
Matt: He gives you five gold.
Marisha: I lean into Percy and I say  this guy's not a threat. He's okay.
Taliesin: Well, I am a dark evil demonic creature.
Matt: As he gives you the five gold, he immediately takes it back. "But you wanted to know your fate."
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: "Step forward, young-- what's your name?"
Taliesin: Just Percy.
Matt: "Percy. Please, present your face." As he reaches out, he begins to feel the bumps on your head. He begins to touch the outside of your face. He closes his eyes. "Yes, yes, I can see into the very nature of your existence. You, young-- Percy?"
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: "Percy, Percy. Young Percy. You, you have hardworking hands, you've seen a lifetime of hard, hard work in the fields. But you wish to make your father proud, as does every son and you will-- as one day you will become... a well celebrated smith of horseshoes! Yes! Glory to Percy!"
Sam: Amazing! So accurate.
Taliesin: So accurate.
Matt: He leans in and says, "I could tell from the black powder on your hands that you've worked with a few pieces of iron in your time."
Taliesin: Very astute.
Matt: (chuckles) "Thank you so much. So, who's next?" The children start rushing up and-- you guys wish to continue with this guy?
Marisha: No. (laughter)
Sam: All right, we'll leave.
Marisha: I've seen enough.
Matt: Okay, who's doing what now?
Travis: Does anyone want to get down to the pie contest? I thought I might arm wrestle first.
Liam: I think you should arm wrestle.
Sam: Oh yeah, I want to see this.
Travis: I'd like to arm wrestle, in case I need to eat my way out of sadness with pies.
Matt: (laughs)
Taliesin: Turn your sadness into victory.
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: I will also enter the arm wrestling competition.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Yes!
Matt: Okay, okay. So, as you guys step up, you can see there's a woman dressed in a rather simple barmaid outfit, leather apron on her side and she's pretty thick and rough-and-tumble with her timbre. She has her hair pulled up in a very tight bun in the back. She has a bit of a smudge on her chin. She says, "All who wish to enter the contest please step right here, pay your entry fee! Graciously prove your might and your strength. Show that you yourself are responsible for the rebellion succeeding." Sees you. "You! You wish to be part of this, yes!"
Travis: Yeah, I do!
Matt: "Very well, very well. Ah, entry fee--" She leans in and gets real for a second. "Entry fee is 25 gold pieces each. Winner gets free drinks and the pot."
Liam: I slap down 25 gold on behalf of Grog.
Travis: (excited gasp)
Sam: You're paying for his entry?
Liam: I'm paying for his entry, sure.
Sam: And mine, as well?
Liam: No.
Travis: Good man.
Sam: I would like to-- I would also like to compete.
Matt: (prolonged high-pitched giggle) "Sorry. 25 gold then."
Sam: Here you go.
Matt: "I mean no offense, I just-- it's a cute beret."
Taliesin: (laughs) Wow.
Matt: Other individuals come and enter and you can see as you guys are preparing for this event, you hear the rattling of chains nearby and you can see two guards stepping up with--
Laura: The other goliath!
Matt: Goran Vedmeyer, who you've seen--
Laura: The Duke!
Matt: Yeah, no longer Duke. Un-Duked.
Laura: Once you Duke something, you can't un-Duke it, Matt.
Matt: No, he's been thoroughly un-Duked, trust me.
Marisha: The Duke that was formerly known as--
Travis: Duke Gonad.
Matt: Yeah. He's brought by two of the guards and the guards whisper to each other. They bring out their own 25 gold pieces and they plop it into the pot. "He's entering as our proxy." He looks around. "Yes, what they said." She gives a nod. "Well, I don't see why not, I suppose. All right!" Other people end up gathering up their change and she goes over the sheet with one of her compatriots and they end up breaking off into teams. There are four tables set up and for this round, at least, this part of the festival, they break up in different parts. She calls out to one table. "All right, we have a Jasper Leer to go against a Scanlan Shorthalt at this table."
Sam: That's me!
Travis: Yay, Scanlan!
Marisha: Yes, Scanlan!
Matt: As you're getting ready, you see a farmer-type individual. Clean, as dressed as he could be in relatively ragged clothes, but he looks like he's trying to be presentory for the festival. Grey beard, longish shoulder-length tousled hair. He walks up, pulling his wrist back, and he's got some good muscles. Looks like he's definitely been working a lot of heavy farmwork for most of his life. He sits down at the table across from you, gives you a look over. "Well, shall we begin?"
Sam: Sure. Can I ever-so-covertly say to him, you don't want to beat a gnome. You don't want to beat a gnome. I'm casting Suggestion on him.
Matt: I will say, go ahead and make a sleight-of-hand check.
Sam: Oh, the worst. Shit. 13.
Laura: What does it mean? The eyebrows!
Travis: And the phone came out.
Sam: Who knows? We'll find out when my arm gets wrenched off.
Laura: Looking at Jasper's stats, I can tell.
Matt: No, what are you talking about?
Sam: He's checking Twitter.
Matt: Yeah, got to respond to a couple-- guys, give me a second. All right. So, he has his hand up, he looks you over with a look of intensity for a second. "Put your hand up."
Sam: Yes, sir.
Matt: He clasps his fingers entirely around your hand at this point. As the intensity mounts, the crowd gathers around, everyone begins cheering, the barmaid steps up again. "All right, two of you, hands together. And prove your strength... now!" Go ahead and make a strength check.
Sam: 19.
Marisha: (laughs) Oh shit.
Matt: You guys stand there for a second (groans) his arm begins to push on yours, begins to bend back a little bit, you reflex with might and begin to set him back up to the center. You've reached a standstill, once again, back at the center. His expression on his face looks frustrated and surprised.
Sam: You weren't expecting this, were you? (pants) Neither was I!
Matt: Make another strength check.
Sam: Not as good. 11.
Matt: 11. At this point, as you say that, he tenses and forces down your hand now, right at three-quarters to the table. Make another strength check.
Marisha: Come on, Scanlan!
Sam: 16!
Matt: 16. (groans) About to touch the knuckles--
Sam: What is going on? I had-- This has never happened before.
Matt: He's keeping his hand to his side, trying not to grasp the edge of the table, which is technically against the rules. He's looking around at everyone watching and realizes the sheer amount of attention that's put on the fact that this tiny little gnome is now keeping him at a standstill.
Liam: I shout out from the crowd, Scanlan! Pike is here! She's astral-projected in!
Sam: Natural one. (laughter)
Matt: With that moment of distraction, you look around and (wham) your arm hits the table. Cheers go on, everyone shouts happily.
Sam: You idiot!
Liam: All the blood rushed somewhere else, that's not my fault.
Sam: I had him! (groans)
Matt: He lifts up his tankard to the side, someone begins pouring ale into it. He shouts his victory out, everyone cheers. The barmaid pats you on your back. "You did good, you did good."
Sam: I don't need your pity! Grog, kick this motherfucker's ass!
Matt: Two more events go by, two more gentlemen have a showdown-- actually no, it's a woman and a man. The woman is a pretty tough-looking warrior, probably one of the guards of Castle Whitestone. She's still in partial armor, has been guarding the event, has taken her helmet off to be part of this event, taking a moment to relax. She goes up against another merchant of the town and just destroys him. The next bout is a man who, the way he's dressed, appears to be a blacksmith. He still has his leather gauntlets on, he takes them off at the table, takes off his leather apron and sets it to the side. Gets down and ready and looks around for his opponent and the two guards bring up the chained Vedmeyer, who then sits down at the table, the chains hitting against the sides of the wooden table top and coasting to the ground as they adjust. He puts his arm on the table with a thud, and has to bend over to even reach the other guy's grasp. You can see the look on his face immediately pale as he realizes who he's up against. It's two rounds and maybe 20 seconds tops before Vedmeyer slams him so hard you can part of the tabletop splinters inward and the guy brings his hand back with bleeding knuckles. He reaches over, puts his hand out expectantly. The barmaid hands him a tankard full of ale. He downs it in one gulp, slams it on on the table and stands back up again. He glances over at you and steps back into the crowd. The second round of the events go in. You are paired up with the gentleman who defeated Scanlan.
Marisha: Kick his ass, Grog!
Taliesin: Yeah!
Sam: Put him in a body bag!
Travis: I sit down and I say, I feel really bad for you mate. You know, my friend? He's got hand herpes... So do I.
Sam: It's true.
Matt: Make a deception roll.
Travis: 20! 19 plus one!
Matt: Natural one on his part. He looks genuinely frightened and is about to back up and get the attention of the barmaid who's running this event and he sees the crowd around.
Travis: I mean, you're a farmer, right? You handle food.
Matt: He spits in his hand, puts it out and grabs your hand. The barmaid once again. "And-- prove your strength!" Roll a strength check. He has disadvantage.
Travis: 21.
Matt: Natural one. He's already straining and the back of his knuckles are immediately up against the wood. You can see fear in his eyes and he's gripping, but he's also trying to move his fingers to make sure he doesn't make too much contact with your hand. Go ahead and roll another strength check.
Travis: 11.
Matt: At which point, he sees the grin on your face and gets his will back behind him and (grunts) forces you back to the center. Make another strength check.
Travis: Oh, shit. Seven.
Matt: Natural 20.
Laura: Oh no!
Matt: He (groans) slams you right over on the edge of the table. Make another check.
Marisha: Come on, Grog!
Travis: 23.
Matt: 19. Back up to the center, at a standstill. You see now the veins bulging at his neck, you can see now, his face is turning red from the strain. He's breathing heavily (pants) as he pushes again. Make another strength check.
Laura: Come on, Grog!
Travis: Eight.
Matt: (chuckles) Eight. (groans) Keeping you right in the middle. Make another check.
Sam: I hold up my hand and I use Minor Illusion to make it all dotted with herpes.
Matt: He glances sidelong at your hand and (whimpers). I'm going to give him disadvantage on this one. All right, what did you get?
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17. (laughs) With a disadvantage, he got a six. (groans) The hand goes at three-quarters. He's now looking at you, looking at Scanlan's hand, looking at you, looking at his own hand, he's really worried. Make another strength check.
Travis: It's slippery when the pores start to seep. That's a one.
Sam: No!
Taliesin: No!
Matt: With a disadvantage, he gets a two. You guys are at the middle again.
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: Big struggle.
Travis: 22.
Matt: With disadvantage again, because of that-- though disadvantage is fading at this point. He got a 12. So yeah (groans), now he's back down.
Laura: Come on Grog, finish it!
Travis: 22.
Matt: He got a seven. He looks at you, looks at the hand, looks at you again and you can see in his face, the sudden look of acceptance as you stop playing with him and (whack) slam it really hard on the wood. You can see, he pulls away... (gasps) "Wash it! Wash it, please! Wash it, somebody wash it!"
Travis: You know, the cure for that is actually on my man Vax's groin. It's very magical.
Matt: He slowly backs into the crowd, looking very disturbed and disgusted as everyone else is cheering for you. A tankard is slammed before you, filled with ale. "Drink up, you've earned it, champion."
Travis: I look at Gonad over at the side. I drink it, chug it down, and hold up the finger at the same time.
Matt: (laughs) He sits there and tenses for a second with a grin, as he growls, his cold breath in the cold Winter's Crest air dissipates up above him and he gives you a nod, the slow look of warrior intensity, but respect. You can see he's looking forward to hopefully this as much as you are, but he still has a battle to do himself.
Liam: I've spent the last ten minutes while he's kicking that guy's ass to find a soldier or somebody in the crowd to bet.
Sam: A young boy?
Liam: I'm not you. (laughter)
Liam: 200 gold on Grog. Somebody in the crowd.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Taliesin: All right.
Liam: 14.
Matt: Going around, you're hard-pressed to find somebody who at this moment in time is interested in betting any money against the goliath that helped save the city. You find one gentleman who seems a little interested and he gives you this sidelong, sleazy grin. "Tell you what, not 200 gold, but I'll put 50 down."
Liam: That's not worth it. 75 gold?
Matt: "Step away, halfie."
Laura: Oh! I heard it. I give him the evil eye.
Matt: He's too focused on the current bout at hand. At this table, you can now see Vedmeyer and the woman guard sits down. Someone's like, "Oh, Trisha's wrestling."
Travis: Her name's Trisha? Trish the Dish.
Matt: Vedmeyer, again with his chains against the wood as he sits down with a smile. He gives her a grin and nod. She's just-- intensity towards him the whole time. You can see there's a little bit of intensity to win, but you also see spite in that look. You see that she knows what he's done and this victory means more to her than otherwise. The two of them-- first match, she pushes and gets the upper hand. A three-quarter view perspective, she's tensing herself, you hear the muscle tensing beneath the armor itself, the metal creaking as her whole upper torso begins to push into it. She begins to push it back--
Laura: Yeah! Trish the Dish!
All: Trish the Dish! Trish the Dish!
Matt: As you guys are shouting this and keeping it going, she gets pushed back again into a defensive position. You see the blood rushing to her face, but he himself is starting to look really intense. You can see there's surprise in his face from the battle she's giving. She (groans) pushes him back to the center, this back and forth, the crowd is starting to get really intense. You can see the shouting, the cheering, gets really quiet as everyone is now breathlessly watching this bout. She pushes to three-quarters-- He rallies his own strength, but it's not enough, as she (impact sound) onto the table. As she releases, she goes, "You deserve that, and much more." She gets up and walks away. The tankard is held out for her. She pushes it aside and cracks her knuckles as she steps away. Vedmeyer is there staring at his hand. "Hmm. Fitting. It's a real pity, I was looking forward to fighting you."
Travis: Well, get used to disappointment, shithead.
Matt: At which point, his chains are tightened and the guards lift him up again off of his seat and he gets led off back into the crowd.
Laura: Yeah, walk away, you beardless bastard.
Matt: As everyone gathers in now, you can now see more discussions and people are starting to really place bets down now on the outcome of this circumstance. The barmaid comes up again. "You, champion Grog, sit down. And you, champion Trisha, sit down. As the final round of this show of majestic might happens now. Hands clasped, please."
Travis: If I may, thank you for your service to this city. That last round was a true pleasure to watch.
Matt: Her face goes from hardened to soft for a minute as she reaches out and clasps you, not hand in hand, but forearm to forearm, and gives you a solid shake. "I've done so little. You've done far more. But we all must do our part to keep the city safe."
Travis: Aye.
Matt: "But right now, I'm going to have to destroy you."
Laura: I kind of love Trish the Dish.
Marisha: I know, I like her, too.
Matt: Her clasp on your forearm slides back, keeping your hand. Both of you tense muscles, we're talking Predator vs. Schwarzenegger.
Travis: (Schwarzenegger accent) Yah, what's the matter, Dylan? You guys ate too many pretzels?
Matt: (laughs) Just like that. As the crowd begins to shout different names, you can see people going, "Trish, Trish, Trish, Grog, Grog, Grog." The voices are starting to grow and grow as both of you are standing there focusing on each other. You can see her tightly bunned dark brunette hair, you can see these green eyes piercing through, looking straight into yours with a bit of sly smirk on the side of her face. You can see a little bit of a scar on the outside of her face that's longtime healed and you can see she's definitely seen her share of battle, just from the complexion and the intensity in her face.
Marisha: She's one of us.
Matt: "For the final round, let this show of might begin!" Strength check.
Travis: Eight.
Matt: As the moment of tension hits, you can sense there's definitely a balance, both of you are keeping at bay. She cocks her head curiously and forces you down to the three-quarter back position. Go ahead and make another strength check.
Laura: Come on, Grog! Oh my god.
Travis: Six.
Liam: It's that sword's influence.
Travis: Yeah, it's laughing in the Bag of Holding.
Matt: She brings you right down to the edge of the table and you can see in her face, there's this genuine look of surprise, like she probably could have finished you, but she feels like there's a trick or there's something to it that she can't be beating you this easy.
Travis: I'm so surprised by what's happening. I use Intimidating Presence on her.
Marisha: Oh shit.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. Go ahead and make an intimidation check.
Travis: Fuck.
Matt: Does this have to be during a rage?
Travis: 12. I'll go into a rage for it.
Matt: (laughing) It may have to be. Let's see.
Laura: (laughing) Why weren't you raging the whole time?
Travis: I was hoping I wouldn't need it!
Matt: No, you don't have to be in a rage for it, but you can choose to, if you want.
Travis: it doesn't add anything to my strength roll, right?
Matt: A 12 for intimidation? Well, what do you want to do to try and intimidate her? She's about to finish you off on this table.
Travis: I'm like, oh! (grunts) and I bite down on my tongue and blood just starts to pour out of the corner of my mouth.
Laura: Oh, gross!
Matt: She sees this, and her eyes go wide for a second. She pulls back and for a brief moment, you feel her grip loosen ever so slightly. Go ahead and make the next strength check with advantage.
Travis: Fuck. (laughing) It's unreal. 11.
Matt: 11?
Travis: The other one was a one.
Matt: Well, I'm glad you had advantage on that; she rolled a five. So you do manage to (groans) force her back up. You're still in a bad place, but you manage to pull out of that circle and you can see now her intensity hits and she realizes she's not going to go soft on you at all going forward. But as the blood pools down your chin, you can feel the iron-y taste swishing around in your mouth and you can see there's a little bit of a quiver to her. She's still spooked by this whole circumstance, but she's trying her best. Go ahead and make another strength check.
Travis: She's battle-worn. 19.
Laura: That's good!
Matt: That's good. She has disadvantage on these because of the fright. I'm giving her that, but even still, she still rolls a 17. What did you roll, total?
Travis: 19.
Matt: 19. You guys keep it-- she's still holding you there, you're not able to gain any ground. You're really impressed by this display she's giving you. Roll again.
Travis: Do I have advantage? No.
Matt: No.
Travis: 12.
Matt: 12? Okay. She forces you back down--
Sam: I step forward and I sing a song of inspiration.
Matt: What are you singing?
Sam: I sing, (sings) let's go raging now, everybody's learning how, come on on a rampage with me!
Taliesin: Come on on a rampage with me!
Matt: All right, take a d10 inspiration, as you hear the song break through the intensity and you know that Scanlan's presence alone in itself and his fine ditties means that you can do this.
Travis: Fine ditties!
Liam: Show us your ditties!
Travis: 16.
Matt: 16?
Laura: With the ten inspiration.
Matt: With the ten? Okay. It's good you did that. You force her back up, she starts like, really pushing into it and you can see now the sweat's dripping off of her brow, her eyes are quivering. Make another check. How long does that last?
Travis: Seven.
Matt: Seven. Hold on.
Laura: You should switch.
Sam: Grog, what are you doing?!
Travis: (laughing) I don't know! They're so low! It was all those free rolls during the two weeks when I rolled 20--
Sam: Oh my god, do you really have hand herpes? (laughter)
Matt: What did you roll?
Travis: Seven.
Matt: Seven. Yeah, she still beats you. So, at this point, you're pushed down. She gives you this look--
Travis: This is unreal.
Matt: Yeah. Of intense anger-- and her face softens and she gives you a nod of respect. (thud) Releases her grip and pulls away, holds her arms up, crowd goes wild. The drink is slammed in front of her, the ale swishing and spilling over the side. She takes it in one hand and slides it forward and hands it to you.
Laura: Aw, she's a good lady.
Travis: You are a true warrior and I hope you'll continue to protect this city with that strength.
Matt: "I intend to." She gives you a nod, walks around, accepts her coin purse and steps back into the rest of the celebration.
Travis: I walk away (coughs), coughing (coughs), trying not to cry. (coughs) I take my tankard and splash it on my face. Oh, it's just ale. It's just ale. (sobs)
Sam: It's okay, Grog. Let's go get you drunk.
Matt: As this is happening, a courier comes up dressed in colors that are reminiscent of the courier service that travels through Emon, through Westruun. There's a certain type of overcoat they wear that gives you the inclination that they've traveled from nearby civilization. Steps up with a rolled up sequence of letters and a small box that is wrapped up.
Marisha: Oh look, the young boy you ordered, Scanlan.
Matt: He's in his mid-20s. (laughter)
Matt: He's asking around. "Looking for a Percival and a Vox Machina. Percival?"
Taliesin: I'm Percival.
Matt: "You're Percival?"
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: "I'm to deliver this to you." He hands you the small box. "I have here two small letters." And hands them over both to you. There's a small, thin one that is actually written to Percival, and there's one addressed to Vox Machina.
Taliesin: I was going to sit here and watch you roll them.
Marisha: Presentation's lost.
Matt: That's fine.
Sam: I just noticed Taliesin's outfit, by the way.
Laura: We were supposed to wear pajamas.
Taliesin: I wore my pajamas. My muppet pajamas.
Matt: Yeah, the week got busy and we forgot.
Travis: You don't want me in my pajamas because they're--
Matt: That one's to you and the other one's to Vox Machina.
Sam: (sings) Letters, we've got letters.
Taliesin: Oh, this is quite interesting. "Vox Machina, a little bird tells me you have been playing the heroes again. Keep this up, and the whole world will end up indebted to you. Please accept this small gift in the spirit of Winter's Crest, as a token of my enduring gratitude. Perhaps it will prove useful in a difficult moment. In the meantime, I look forward to a fuller account of your deeds reaching us in Vasselheim. A joyous Crest to you all. It seems you have earned it. Lillith."
Laura: Oh!
Taliesin: "P.S., Zahra sends her greetings."
Sam: (dreamily) Zahra.
Marisha: The tieflings!
Sam: We had quite a night together. Just braiding each other's hair.
Taliesin: I tuck the private note away and put it in my pocket.
Travis: Yeah, there's another one, right?
Matt: There is a box, yes.
Laura: Oh, is it big enough to hold a giant carpet?
Taliesin: Perhaps a small ice egg.
Matt: It's about that big in your hands.
Taliesin: We open the box.
Matt: You open the gift. Inside, there are two--
Sam: Check it for traps!
Matt: (laughs) Make a reflex save-- no. As you open it, you see inside there are two crystalline stones that both identically look like that.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: It's been a while since we had a visual aid.
Matt: Yeah, it's nice when you have a really good artist, apparently. But two stones like this. They are called Gate Stones.
Sam: Gate Stones?
Matt: The two stones are essentially linked. One is placed wherever you like and the other is kept with you. A single individual, just an individual, not a group, can take a minute to concentrate on one stone and be instantly transported to where the other stone is, with the stone.
Travis: Badass.
Liam: One-way ticket.
Matt: Essentially, yeah.
Travis: You take it with you and you can zoom back to wherever you left it.
Sam: There are two stones in this box?
Matt: Yeah. They are the two that are linked.
Travis: A person or linked?
Matt: No, there is a single set.
Marisha: So this is a get out of jail free card.
Sam: Or a bamf-in-Pike card.
Matt: There's multiple situational uses for it, depending. But apparently this has been painstakingly either enchanted, constructed, and sent by Lillith for you.
Liam: They're all from Lillith?
Matt: Yeah, the letters and those two stones.
Sam: From Lillith and Zahra?
Matt: And Zahra, both of them, essentially.
Marisha: Yeah, Lillith doesn't have the other stone?
Liam: For a little arcane booty call?
Taliesin: I don't know what you're talking about.
Travis: Please?
Taliesin: No.
Laura: I don't think I've ever seen Percy giggle before.
Travis: Are you blushing?
Taliesin: No. It's cold. Very cold.
Travis: It's a new demon, isn't it? The blushing demon!
Taliesin: She was great, wasn't she?
Sam: Lillith is a true friend. Zahra, as well.
Taliesin: Zahra is great, as well.
Matt: You hear murmurs now, people mentioning the pie-eating contest starting soon.
Sam: Vex and Vax!
Laura: All right, we'll give it a go.
Matt: As you guys make your way over there, we're going to go ahead and go to our break. We're at the middle point here, yeah. So it's going to be a longer break guys, because we've got a little present for you. I know for a while we've been talking about this work we've been doing on a pre-stream story of Vox Machina's adventures that you guys hadn't had a chance to really experience. So, through all of us doing our individual narration, as well as the wonderful Wendy Sullivan doing incredible work on 50 pieces of art for this, and using music from actually some of our Critters that sent us some great musical tracks, we have been able to present to you over the next 20 minutes, the story of Vox Machina, the beginning. So, enjoy guys, we'll see you here in a moment.
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: The grandest of adventures often stem from humble beginnings. The story of Vox Machina is one such a tale. They begin as a ragtag group of mercenaries in the swamp town of Stillben, eking out a living, when a job board posting brings them to Fendril Vas, the wealthy head of a small merchant empire. Hired to investigate new competition in town called The Myriad, the path eventually leads them into a chamber housing a planar rift, pulling the group into the plane of the stillborn god Crysa-Thul. It is revealed that the contract was a ruse to feed the party to the undead, fetal deity. Upon destroying the abomination, the party returns to repay Fendril's deceit with a blade to the throat.
Laura: Weeks pass, and Grog the barbarian hasn't been seen since suddenly leaving for the city of Westruun. Heading there in search of him, the party meets his childhood friend, and their new companion: the gnome cleric, Pike. Grog apparently hasn't been acting normally, and had marched off on his own through the Bramblewood towards the ominous mountain, Gatshadow. The party followed, dispensing with a troop of roadside thieves along the way, and wound their way toward the mountain. Deep within, they encountered an abandoned subterranean city and eventually a crypt housing a mind-controlled Grog, the reanimated corpse of his father Strongjaw, and a dying mage attempting a ritual to Lichdom. Our heroes slayed the mage, but not before he could complete the ritual and embed his phylactery into Grog's chest. Returning to town in search of aid, they find there are few of enough knowledge or power to ascertain the nature of Grog's wound. Also, rumors of missing children begin to reach the party's ears. While contemplating all this at a local inn, the party is approached by a mysterious elf named Drez Vina who wishes to pay handsomely for the party to infiltrate an archmage's tower, and retrieve a particular brass box within. Pushing forward in the hopes of speaking with this archmage, the party accepts, and passes through arcane trap after trap to reach the top of the tower, deciding not to steal from the archmage but instead parley with him for his aid. The tower's keeper, Realmseer Eskil Ryndarien, agrees to help and sends the party to collect two items he requires for the ritual: the skull of a nightmare and the heart of a nymph. The caveat: their defeated foe is indeed a lich now, and in merely two weeks, he will be reborn within Grog! They travel north to the Umbra Hills, wrestle with a small cult to slay their infernal messenger and his nightmare steed, and find a fresh companion in Percy, newly freed from imprisonment. From there, the party rushes south to the Frostweald, a forest shrouded in eternal winter. Battling past basilisks, the party finds a single, unfrozen pool where they coax a nymph from her dimensional sanctuary. Talking their way out of battle, Grog enters the sanctuary with the nymph, and returns holding a jewel gifted by the beautiful creature: the "heart" of the nymph.
Liam: Traveling back to the archmage, the ritual is completed and the phylactery destroyed in time, but not without some lingering necromancy branded within Grog. They are suddenly approached by the mysterious elf again, saying his master is unhappy with the broken contract, and he demands that either the debt be paid, or the party complete a more difficult contract in its place. The party accepts, and heads into the Shade Barrow, an ancient druid burial chamber that was purchased and renovated by an eccentric lord who made it his own tomb. Fighting the denizens of the barrow, they locate the tomb and the iron golem guarding it. Successfully defeating the golem, they tear the Arcane Cortex from its chest and return it to Drez to square their debt. After a bit of R and R, a clean-shaven dwarf named Grimthorne propositions the group to enter a nearby, underground fighting ring, even offering to represent them. The party agrees and, not surprisingly, manages to pull off a victory. With the holiday of Winter's Crest arriving, the town bustles with preparation for a festival, during which a strange blue crystal is delivered in the name of Archmage Eskil. This crystal suddenly detonates, freezing the entire populace of Westruun in ice-- though the party is protected by a sudden ally in the streets. In a last-ditch arcane effort, a mystic merchant named Noja manages to shield the group from harm. And where the crystal previously rested now stood a pale, nude woman of white hair and frail physique. She opens a portal and leaps through, the party giving chase into what seems like an icy, frozen world, chaotic and elemental in nature. They catch up to the woman, who then reveals her true self: a great white dragon. Weakened by her premature "rebirth", the party manages to defeat her, and upon returning to Westruun, discover its people released from their icy prison. With the archmage Eskil Ryndarien now on trial for the attack on Westruun, the party intercedes and proves his innocence. In thanks, Eskil uses his talents to investigate the source of the blue crystal, revealing the powerful society of thieves, known as the Clasp, responsible for its delivery. Vax, having previously been a member of the Clasp, knows the main headquarters lies within the capital city of Emon, and Vox Machina sets out for the west.
Ashley: Upon arriving in the sprawling metropolis of Emon, the party continues to hear of children disappearing, and reports of a black-haired, golden-eyed boy befriending them before they vanish. While investigating, they do a few odd jobs, one of which unexpectedly leads them to the home of Syldor, Vex and Vax's father, and his new wife and child. Awkwardness aside, Syldor is here as ambassador to Syngorn, the elven city of their origin, to seek aid from the Sovereign Uriel Tal'Dorei. However, the political climate of Emon is tense with a recent, failed attempt on the royal family's life making Uriel unreachable at the moment. Syldor's connection within the Council has now gone missing, and his mission stands at a complete standstill. He hires the party to look in on this missing ally, Sir Gregory Fince, and get his ear back to Syngornian business. Vox Machina finds Sir Gregory's home dark and still, pushing them to infiltrate and investigate. Within, they discover a dark presence in the home, leading them into a battle with demons in the basement. The battle won, Sir Gregory's tortured corpse is found, as are his notes about the attempted assassination on Uriel and his family. It seems that since the attempt, the royal family has grown strange and withdrawn, keeping Uriel from the council most hours, and his wife now demanding she attend all meetings, whispering in the Sovereign's ear and scoffing at the others who defy their decree. A General Krieg thwarted the attempt, and is mentioned often. The party decides to inquire with him. On their way out of the basement, half of the party falls into a trap, tumbling into a cistern and are flushed deep below into a subterranean river system. The trapped party members-- Vex, Keyleth, Grog, Tiberius, and Percy-- come to rest on a small island in the vast Crystalfen Lake, home to a terrible aboleth! Barely escaping, they eventually discover the base remnants of an ancient town, long toppled, and a small hut that contains a clever hag named Trysta. Tiberius finds one of his prized artifacts and makes a dangerous deal to acquire it. The party barters for information on how to escape, which Trysta will give... in exchange for their aid in slaying a newly nested denizen that threatens her work. The party agrees, climbing to the very top of the Crystalfen Cavern to do battle with an umber-hulk. The fight goes south when Grog is tossed from the cavern ceiling, nearly dying upon impact with the island, but victory is eventually theirs. Returning, Trysta shows them a hidden staircase that exits into the Graveyard District of Emon.
Travis: The other members-- Vax, Pike, and Scanlan-- set out to find where the cistern could have drained to. Scanlan leaves to seek out a map of the sewers, while Vax and Pike notice they are being followed through the town. Leading the pursuers into an alley, the shadowed figures attack, eventually knocking them both out. Vax and Pike awaken within the Clasp's headquarters, meeting with one of their leaders, or Spirelings, named Modeth. The Clasp had Sir Gregory's home under surveillance, as bad political stuff can be difficult for the way the Clasp does business, and when our heroes were spotted leaving, they had to be interrogated. Vax reveals his membership to the Clasp sect in Westruun, and Modeth calls for a test of their skills and intent. Pike and Vax are then forced to do battle with a chained chimera in the Clasp's arena. Their might rings true, and the beast falls beneath their weapons, but Modeth is not convinced. While the two are held overnight, they manage to escape from the Clasp's lair, exiting into the night and managing to locate the rest of the party in the Graveyard district. Knowing their next step is to speak with General Krieg, Vax forges a letter of summons using Sir Gregory's handwriting, and the party is allowed entry into the carefully guarded Cloudtop District, the innermost area of the city and home to the Citrine Garrison, as well as Emon's Palace. Approaching the garrison, they have an audience with General Krieg, who seems nice and keenly interested upon learning of the Clasp's involvement. He also mentions the difficulty in talking with Uriel since the attack, and is sad about the death of Sir Gregory, but warns to leave the investigation to the officials. Vox Machina then heads to the palace to try their hand at speaking with Uriel, but entry is barred. They find another is being prevented from entering, a golden-haired woman in fancy blue robes who angrily stomps away from the palace doors. They engage her in conversation, and she reveals herself to be Allura Vysoren, a powerful arcanist and member of the Tal'Dorei Council. They discuss the state of things within the palace, how Uriel is a good and trusted man, but his actions (and those of the Empress Salda) are recently suspect. After seven days of being kept from the council chambers, she's about to give up and leave. The party tells her of their findings, and Allura leads them to her tower within the district to further discuss the matter in private.
Sam: Within, Allura and the party make an alliance, and Keyleth aids her in performing a scrying ritual on the palace. The vision reveals that the family of Uriel-- his wife, two daughters, and son-- are all under the influence of some demonic force, and have addled the mind of their father, using him as a mouthpiece for their plot. The party decides to pay a visit to the Clasp, using Vax and Pike's knowledge of an entrance, and end up in a confrontation with Spireling Modeth within his chambers. The battle ends with Modeth's head on the floor and four strange, glowing crystals he had been keeping now stolen by the party. They attempt to leave, but are met by a host of Clasp members and another, dangerous-looking Spireling. Through Scanlan's deft lies and coercion, the party is allowed to leave unharmed before their deeds are discovered. They return to Allura's tower only to find the front door ajar and the interior tossed by some previous scuffle. As they reach the top of the tower, they investigate, finding signs of a struggle with a demonic entity, and Allura's escape seemingly successful. Unfortunately, a magical defense of the tower is triggered, and it begins to cave and crumble around them. Through some ingenuity-- and the discovery of a magic carpet-- the party manages to escape being crushed within, Allura's ivory monolith now compacted into a single, magical pearl. Our heroes then locate and enter the home of General Krieg, finding a brainwashed servant and a hidden passage that leads to a teleportation circle. Using the device, they are transported to a distant cavern, high in a range of frost-covered mountains, and an incredible hoard of gold, jewels, and fine trinkets. Across the room are four obsidian orbs placed within the rock. As one is touched, a giant eye appears from within the black crystal and a voice erupts, calling for a Brimscythe, and noticing the unfamiliar folk, mentions, "Intruders... I know your face now. He is a fool, and so are you, insect." The orbs all crack simultaneously, becoming inert. Grog dives right in, rage-looting the gold, but the arrival of the party seems to call the attention of General Krieg, who appears at the teleportation circle. He angrily denounces the party and reveals his true form, that of a frightening blue dragon!
Marisha: The battle is difficult, with many an ally nearly devoured, but eventually Vax strikes a mortal blow. Krieg, or Brimscythe, defiantly smashes against the support pillars of the cavern in his death throes, causing the chamber to collapse, the party barely escaping via the teleportation circle. Leaving Krieg's home, Allura finds the party and warns that the evil that feeds on the throne is growing more bold. She herself was attacked shortly after the scrying was complete, and barely escaped. As dark clouds fill the sky above Emon, the party decides the time to strike has come. Allura aids the party in infiltrating the palace, and they storm the throne room. Uriel sits upon his throne, surrounded by his creepily mannered, possessed family. Vox Machina attacks, managing to banish the shadows from within their bodies, but the throne itself cracks in half as the dais below glows a deep red, summoning the entity behind the entire scheme: a devil prince called Juurezel, who tells the party of a great war between devils and demons spilling over into this plane, threatening all creation. He justifies his actions, and notes all the demonic forces throughout the city, and tells them of the horrible devastation that will ensue if the party stops him. They read him as honest, and Juurezel asks for their aid in destroying the demonic threat, offering a single Wish should they make a pact. The party deliberates and agrees to the contract. Thinking over what they had just agreed to, the party returns to the throne room, asking for their Wish to be provided to aid them in their demon hunting. Upon its casting, the party wishes to cancel their contract with the creature, and attack! The devil prince angrily reveals his true form, a hideous treachery demon, a glabrezu. A long, deadly, and epic confrontation ensues, one that suddenly claims the life of the gnomish cleric, Pike. Her death fresh in their minds, Vox Machina deals the killing blow, sending the demon to its unmaking. They gather up the cold body of their fallen friend and rush her to a nearby temple of Sarenrae, where a resurrection ritual is attempted... and succeeds.
Taliesin: The clouds disperse, the immediate danger over, but the royal family lies on the throne room floor, catatonic. Upon inspection, their souls are missing and their bodies failing. The party recalls the four glowing orbs they recovered from the Clasp headquarters behind Modeth, now identified as soul jars, and through a rigorous and tense evening, all souls are successfully restored to the family. A few days pass, and Sovereign Uriel Tal'Dorei calls the party for audience. He thanks them all for their bravery, heroism, and for saving him, his family, and quite possibly all of Emon. As thanks, he offers them a place on the Tal'Dorei Council and informs them of his intent to throw another Winter's Crest festival to make up for the ones ruined in Westruun, and here via assassination attempt, where they will be celebrated as heroes! He has also commissioned the construction of a keep for them on the outskirts of Emon as a sign of his very deep gratitude. A week later, the festival begins! The populace is out in full force to meet and celebrate Vox Machina, but during the festivities, the party notices Uriel's son Gren speaking to another child-- one with black hair and golden eyes. They immediately spring to apprehend the child, but he escapes with Uriel's son. They give chase, following him into an alley, and through a portal of some kind. The party finds themselves atop a large island drifting through the Astral Plane, surrounded by a perilous bramble forest. They fight their way through, eventually coming upon a gothic mansion towards the center of the landmass. Within, the party makes their way to the inner library, where numerous kidnapped children are working all about the place, cleaning nervously. The Dread Emperor, as he calls himself, stands from his chair, the child illusion fading into a golden-armored man with long, black hair, four children chained at the neck to his breastplate. He attacks the party with fierce magic, mind-controlling all of his child servants to attack as well. With the first blow dealt, they realize that damaging him also hurts the chained children, one boy accidentally falling in battle to Keyleth's magic. Eventually, they succeeded in destroying the Dread Emperor and return to Emon with a host of lost children, happily now found. Six months of peace follow as their new keep is constructed, and the party scatters to their separate business until its completion. Upon their return, they assess their new abode with delight, naming it Greyskull Keep. They then send out job inquiries, seeking guards for hire, and servants. After an impromptu try-out, they settle upon their new hires.
Matt: That evening, the party receives a visitor in their friend Arcanist Allura Vysoren. She happily sits with the party for dinner, and trades tales of their past months, before asking if she could hire their services for a matter of great personal importance. Allura's longtime friend and ally, Lady Kima of Vord, has gone missing, following a vision quest from her deity, the platinum dragon Bahamut. Her last letter spoke of an evil taking root beneath the dwarven city of Kraghammer, and Allura worries for her safety. While Allura is unable to go herself, she can provide the proper paperwork for entry, and would pay handsomely if they could find, aid, and return with Kima. Vox Machina agrees to the new contract and sets out for the city of Kraghammer the very next day. As for the rest of their journey... the legend of Vox Machina is still being written.
Matt: Hello! And welcome back. I hope you guys enjoyed your little look into the past of Vox Machina. Once again, thank you to everyone who helped us with that. Huge thanks to Wendy. You were amazing in putting that together for us. It's been a long-time endeavor coming.
Liam: We love you, Wendy.
Matt: And all the wonderful Critters that are incredibly talented put the music together and we are very thankful that you helped us fill out the soundtrack. If you didn't catch all the names, they're at the bottom of the credits and hopefully we'll have that video up separately on the website soon, so people who couldn't make it tonight will have a chance to see it for their own. That being the case, when the rest of them decide they want to join us, those who are going towards the pie eating contest. You start pushing through the crowd, making your way towards the two long tables that are set up. At this, you can see there are a pair of bakers that are standing there with stacks and stacks of various pies of various flavors they have been preparing, all different colors and shapes, just pushed into a pile, as people are gathered around, excitedly sitting at the table.
Laura: Is Trinket allowed to join in the pie eating contest too?
Matt: (laughs) You can ask.
Laura: (laughs) I do.
Matt: Okay, one of the bakers is sitting there. "All right, all right. So sit there, everyone's got a table. We have room for about four more."
Laura: Oh.
Liam: Right here.
Matt: "All right, three more."
Laura: And a bear. Is there room for a bear?
Matt: "A bear. Like, a bear?"
Laura: Yeah, but a very human-acting bear.
Matt: "Oh, sure. Bring him in. No! It's a bear! Two more, room for two more."
Travis: Do you want me to join?
Liam: Can someone transmogrify Trinket, quickly?
Laura: (gasps) Can you Polymorph Trinket, Keyleth?
Marisha: Into what?
Laura: A human.
Liam: To a hot man.
Taliesin: To a lumberjack.
Laura: Into a lumberjack of a man?
Marisha: I don't think it works that way.
Laura: Try it!
Taliesin: Old Spice commercial. Make it happen.
Matt: You can certainly try.
Marisha: I try it.
Liam: Winter's Crest magic!
Marisha: I believe. I believe in the spirit of Winter's Crest.
Laura: Can you Polymorph Trinket into a man?
Sam: Sure.
Laura: Scanlan says he can.
Marisha: I think Scanlan actually might have a better chance with Seeming?
Sam: I can Polymorph Trinket.
Marisha: But can you Polymorph animals into people?
Matt: Technically, you could, yeah.
Marisha: I can?
Matt: Technically. I don't see why not.
Marisha: Sure. Yeah, I'm going to make him real beefy. He's got pecs that can lift semi-trucks. All right?
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Fur, just fur--
Sam: Furry belly? What is that?
Marisha: Like that guy in the beginning of Barbarella.
Matt: So you turned your bear into a bear.
Taliesin: Brian Blessed.
Marisha: Yes.
Laura: Here's my bear, right here.
Matt: So you rush off and you come back with Trinket. As you can see, he's walking a little strange and (bear moans) Rolls up and brushes his scruffy man beard against the side of your face. You gather, Polymorph does not affect the intellect of whatever you transform.
Liam: I grab a mug of ale and go  another one, right? Yeah! He's had so many!
Laura: So drunk, this guy!
Marisha: Wait, wait, wait. Grog, do we still have that helmet, that pot that you wore on your head, in the Bag of Holding?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Can we have that real quick?
Travis: Yeah, okay. So I reach in and take out the big bronze pot.
Marisha: I put the pot on his head.
Laura: Why?
Marisha: It's special.
Sam: Oh, he has a helmet head?
Matt: So the pot, which covers Trinket's head... (bear moans)
Laura: He does not need a pot on his head. Trinket, have a seat in this chair like a normal human.
Travis: You can give that back to me.
Laura: Here you go.
Liam: I keep giving him ale.
Matt: Okay. (laughs) What is going on? Okay. So, at this time, you guys have people gathered around now. You guys all take your places at the table. You have to put your feet planted, everyone pushing elbow to elbow. You guys sit down amongst yourselves in a cluster and you eventually guide over as your fourth at the end of your group, your Polymorphed bear friend who's still (confused moans) messing with his manly ham hands. [no audio]
Matt: "To eat..."
Liam: I do not have much confidence. You have always eaten more than me, always.
Matt: "Now!" Dive in face first, arms behind you, just tearing through these pies. Just blackberries, strawberries, all forms of berries just being tossed everywhere. There's a couple chicken pies--
Liam: No hands, no hands!
Laura: Oh, no hands?
Matt: No hands, no.
Laura: Trinket, no hands.
Matt: Trinket goes like, (inquisitive grunt).
Laura: No hands! No paws!
Marisha: (laughs) No paws! No paws!
Sam: I'm going to use Message to communicate to Grog: If there was ever a time for a prank, now is it.
Travis: Oh shit.
Matt: As you all tear through your first large pies, smeared across the faces, with your mind off to the side, you glance over, everyone go ahead and make a constitution saving throw.
Sam: Constitution? Oh, he's going to barf.
Liam: 20, Natural 20!
Laura: Oh, you rattled the table, it was 15, then it fell over.
Liam: Oh, sorry, Charlie.
Laura: Seven for me, because he rattled the damn table, because he's an asshole.
Liam: Yeah. Separate issues.
Laura: And then Trinket rolled a 21.
Matt: All right, Grog?
Travis: Oh, I'm not eating.
Matt: Oh, you're not eating?
Travis: I thought it was just you two guys.
Laura: It was us and Trinket.
Matt: Okay, all right, cool. So, the three of you tearing through. You finish the first pie. The second pies slam down, you all look at it, you have a little moment. Close, but not too bad. You gather yourself and dive into a second round of pies, splashing all over the table.
Liam: I elbow my sister, then dive into the pie.
Matt: (laughs) Trinket is having a hard time keeping the hands behind. You can see one of the bakers suddenly come by and hold the hands back. (growls aggressively)
Laura: He's really drunk! Don't touch him too much.
Matt: "All right, just keep--"
Laura: No hands, Trinket.
Liam: He lost half his family here, in the attack on Whitestone.
Matt: More and more pie crust being tossed aside, the table is a mess. The bakers are starting to scoop off whatever is left over off to the side into buckets. As you finish the second pie, make another constitution saving throw with the DC increasing with each progressive pie.
Laura: Oh. (laughs)
Travis: Wow.
Laura: Natural one for me.
Liam: Oh boy, I got a big six.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Come on, Trinket!
Sam: (whispers) Luck!
Liam: Yes, thank you, Scanlan. I got a big seven. (laughter)
Laura: 14 for Trinket. I rolled a one.
Matt: Yeah. Okay, so as you both finish your secondary pie, you both sit up and look at each other with dark purple berry filling down the side of your face. You both make eye contact at the same time, as you both go (vomiting sound) and release your fresh payload into the pans before you. Baker comes by, slamming the hand down. "Disqualified!" You look around the side, you aren't the only ones. A number of other individuals have dropped out now. You're down to five people at the table that are still eating, one of which is Trinket, who finishes his second pie. Food smeared all across the face, getting all in the beard. Some of it has dribbled down into the chest hair, it's a pretty terrifying sight. Third pies are slammed down on the table. These last five individuals and Trinket. Have Trinket roll another constitution saving throw.
Marisha: Come on, Trink!
Laura: You want to inspire him?
Matt: You're adding your modifier, right?
Laura: 13.
Matt: You're adding your modifier, right?
Laura: What modifier?
Matt: His constitution modifier.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right, so this time, everyone finishes this last pie. Two of the individuals end up having to stop, just duck out, have to run off out into the crowd. Three of them make it through, Trinket just barely finishes the third pie. (gulps, distressed growls) He gives you that look of like, (distressed growling).
Laura: Buddy. You can keep doing it! I'll give you--
Sam: Food?
Laura: I know, I got nothing. A nice nap. You can have the bed tonight and I'll sleep on the floor.
Matt: (pants) He looks over and another pie is set down, the fourth round of pies go down. The last three and Trinket join in. Make another constitution saving throw for Trinket.
Laura: Okay. It was almost a fucking 15. 15.
Matt: A 15? Total?
Laura: Yeah. Oh no.
Matt: That set of pies finished, two of the remaining three end up getting up partway through the pie and one of them vomits off to the side. The other one stops, stands up and walks away, going (distressed noises). Spits out the food in his mouth in his hand, re-examining his life. The other remaining gentleman finishes the pie. There's sweat down his face (panting), you see the little bit of a chinstrap beard he has just covered in berries and bits of crust, this awful appearance. Trinket finishes the last bits of the pie (chomp, distressed bellow).
Laura: Oh, I feel so guilty right now!
Liam: Why is he so good at being sad bear?
Laura: I know! Don't be sad bear, be happy bear!
Travis: 300 gold!
Laura: It's just 100 gold.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Laura: Oh, a persuasion check for Trinket?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: So he'll keep eating?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Oh, buddy. 15?
Matt: 15. Trinket looks at you.
Laura: I love you.
Matt: (distressed growls)
Marisha: You're like a Toddlers and Tiaras mom right now.
Laura: I know. This is the worst. I'm the worst mom.
Matt: Looks down and across the table, the gentleman who's also there scoots over right in front and goes, "May the best man win, eh?" Trinket goes, (loud growl).
Laura: Get angry! Eat angry!
Matt: There are bits of pie spattering across him on the ground. Two pies (thud) brought down in front. These are not fruit pies. These are meat pies.
Travis: Oh! That's so wrong!
Laura: That's okay, Trinket likes meat way more than fruit.
Matt: Then he goes, (distressed groans, sniffs).
Laura: Is it a salmon pie? He likes fish.
Matt: Constitution saving throw.
Travis: With advantage, because it's meat?
Laura: Beause it's salmon. It's a salmon pie, and he loves salmon.
Matt: (pauses) Hold on. There do appear to be hints of fish inside. I will grant you advantage on this saving throw.
Laura: Okay. Fucking balls, mother bitch.
Marisha: Advantage?
Laura: I did roll with advantage. 11.
Matt: 11. Both of them dive into their pies, coasting through. At a certain point, Trinket stops and (pants) breathes heavily in the pie. You can see bits of it over the edge, just from the nostril flare, looks up at you (distressed growl).
Laura: It's okay, buddy. It's okay.
Liam: I instinctively move behind Vex.
Matt: The gentleman across the way looks up as well and is like (pants heavily, groans). They both dive into the pies together again, slowly, trying to make their way through and then in a moment, they both look up at each other and their eyes make a connection as a look of sudden fear and realization hits both of them. They both sit up and with but a moment's notice, the two bakers set down two pails at their side as both of them simultaneously just... buckets. Losing simultaneously, at which point both of them raise their other hand mid-expulsion. "We have a tie! A victory! Both winners lasted quite a ways, splitting the pot, that's 50 gold each." Everyone cheers, yay!
All: Good job, Trinket!
Matt: (weary growls)
Laura: You don't have to eat anything else if you don't want to.
Matt: (growls)
Laura: Okay.
Travis: He gets to sleep on the bed.
Laura: You get to sleep on the bed and I will sleep on the damn floor.
Matt: Trinket steps up and pushes away from the guy and goes running towards you on his hands and knees. (laughter)
Matt: (growls) Everyone goes like "Whoa-- " as he runs by and starts nuzzling you.
Laura: Oh, this guy. This guy is so drunk!
Travis: There was some mold in those pies!
Matt: The baker hands you a sack of gold. "For your friend."
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: When he's feeling better.
Taliesin: My favorite kind of pie.
Liam: I come over to my sister with two big mugs of ale and hand one to her and say, here, don't swallow the first one, just swish around and spit it out, then the rest.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: That's a good one. (laughter)
Matt: At this point, you can now hear voices start to raise, people going, "Oh, the Keeper, the Keeper's going to speak." The people start gathering towards the center of town where the Sun Tree is. As you all begin to gather for this central moment of the festival, Keeper Yennen steps up. Cassandra steps up with him and you can see he's looking over the crowd, eventually meeting Percy's gaze.
Taliesin: All right.
Matt: He leads you up onto the stage. The three of you stand out amongst the rest of the crowd as everyone gathers. The children are sitting in the front, expectantly with their hands under their legs, looking up with big smiles. Some of them are covered in candy and whatever else they've managed to acquire throughout the festival. The music begins to slowly die down until silence hits and a small cold breeze begins to blow through, as you see a couple of fresh flakes of snow begin to fall from the sky above Whitestone. The Keeper looks out over the crowd as the hush takes the rest of the group. "Friends, families, brave soldiers and defenders of this wondrous city. We gather today to celebrate for the first time in many years, our own Winter's Crest festival." There's some clapping. "It is on this day that we remember, centuries ago, when Erevan, the Ice King, Keeper of the Far Realm of Ice and 'the Elemental Planes, attempted to tear his way into Tal'Dorei, was kept at bay and sent back packing from whence he came." There are some cheers from the crowd. "In this, we also are reminded of family, reminded of friendship, and the bonds that we as a people keep ourselves and our families safe, that we rise up to the occasion to show true heroism. To stand by our beliefs and not let the darkness swallow our hope. And by that, we are able to bring to you, this day, the surviving members of the de Rolo family: Cassandra and Percival." You hear some whistles from the crowd and some cheers well up again. Some shouts, "de Rolo!" some yells from the crowd. Keeper Yennen puts his arms out. "These two, among friends, Vox Machina, the intrepid adventurers from Emon, spearheaded our freedom, from the terrible, tyrant ruin that the Briarwoods had set us upon. So today, we celebrate not just our joint friendships. We celebrate true heroism and give thanks that there are still"-- looking to you, Percy-- "people who will do whatever it takes to rise to the good of this land." He looks to Cassandra. "Who in the long run, know the right choices to make and amongst the darkness, still choose sight of the light. May we all raise our glasses to the prosperous future of this city amongst the Alabaster Sierras and to the continued future of the de Rolo family." Everyone raises their glasses up. "Huzzah!" (cheering)
Matt: Cheers, everyone drinks, the music swells again, people begin to cheer and scatter and Keeper Yennen leads you guys off of the stage. The rest of you gather up as some people come up and shake hands and express their gratitude and thanks. As the crowd begins to die off a little bit, Keeper Yennen gives you all a look and beckons you over. "If you wouldn't mind, a moment of your time. I think there are a few things we need to discuss."
Taliesin: Of course.
Matt: "Cassandra?" She comes as well. And you all step off out of the festival for a while. A few folks attempt to follow to see what's going on. Some of the guards usher them away. You guys are led into an empty building, looks to have been a home of some kind that has long since been abandoned. As you step inside, it's cold and still in here, very low light other than a little oil lantern that's been lit by one of the guards as you step inside. The door closes behind and Keeper Yennen turns around. "There is no real way that we can show our appreciation for what you've done for our people. But first and foremost, there are funds within the de Rolo family treasury left behind by the Briarwoods that we hope could help compensate for some of your expenditures and 'hardships you've undergone."
Laura: So many, just so many.
Matt: "This is, of course, at the behest of the de Rolo family, who are the inheritors of this fortune."
Marisha: Thanks, Percy.
Laura: Percival, you're looking very attractive today.
Taliesin: I know.
Travis: Very appropriate.
Matt: "Now, we've had a few weeks of peace and recovery, of rebuilding and reforging the real bonds of this society here in Whitestone. But going forward, there needs to be a governing force. I would like to ask of your wisdom and guidance, all of you, in deciding on what is to become of the future of this city. There are many options at our disposal. I'm overseeing a myriad of things throughout the town and as a man of religious importance, given the history, the people have recommended it does not behoove me to take any sort of position of ruling in this town. It would be natural, of course, for the people to, without question, follow anyone of the existing bloodline." He looks both to Cassandra and to Percival. "Have you any thoughts on this matter? Any of you?"
Sam: Of our members, only this one human over here on his hands and knees, is the expendable one of our group.
Laura: Hey.
Matt: At which point, the strange, burly man on all fours, at this point, Brother-- who did not really notice, goes, "Is that your bear?" (laughter)
Laura: Maybe.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: "Strange folk. "
Sam: I don't think any of us would-- well, Percy, if you'd like to stay and rule?
Liam: Freddy, this is everything you've worked for.
Sam: This is your birthright and you've earned it.
Taliesin: It was really not my birthright. I was not raised to rule.
Sam: But you would be a fantastic ruler.
Marisha: And also sometimes, those birthrights are thrust upon us.
Taliesin: I still have work to do outside the city. Ripley's still on the loose and knows far too much. And I feel more than a little responsible for her and what she may do. Honestly, Cassandra had a better upbringing than I did for this sort of work.
Matt: At which point, Cassandra pipes up and goes, "Well, I understand what you're saying, brother, but I'm still rediscovering who I am. If the people of this town knew what I've done, what I was responsible for all these years."
Marisha: You mean surviving being held hostage, surviving an ambush and being pelted with arrows?
Taliesin: They expect better of us, I know. I understand. We are held to a different standard. And it's difficult. Perhaps it's time for a council. Perhaps it's time for shared rule. There should always be a de Rolo in Whitestone, but perhaps we could share the weight.
Matt: "We could. I could."
Taliesin: Yennen, would you be comfortable sharing some of this burden?
Matt: He's taken aback and thinks. "Well, in the sense of a council that you're recommending, that would be certainly a more comfortable position for one such as myself. There are a number of community leaders that have really stepped up and shown their true quality. Yes, this could be done. We'd have to ask the people, of course, of the city and make sure that that would be all right with the folks, but I think given the way things have been, that shouldn't be too hard of a sell."
Laura: Do the de Rolos still stay in the giant castle? Or does that go to somebody else, then?
Taliesin: I think the de Rolos keep the castle, but I think we use the castle to--
Sam: Wait, would you be on this council? And who would they be counseling? Is there no superior primate? Is there no, there's no--
Matt: "I believe what he's suggesting is that we make decisions by council, by vote."
Sam: A triumvirate.
Matt: "If you will."
Taliesin: Quintumverate.
Sam: Oh, four people?
Taliesin: Five.
Travis: A flatterdesplat.
Sam: Flibbertigibbit.
Taliesin: A religious leader, someone from the farming communities, someone from the economic community, someone from the trade community--
Sam: Someone from the gnome community.
Taliesin: From the citizenry.
Sam: From the gnome community.
Taliesin: From some known community, yes.
Sam: I accept.
Taliesin: Interests will be thought of and there will always be a noble to be a tiebreaker when necessary and to judge from a place of (sighs) greater good.
Matt: "Cassandra?" She steps back at this point and she looks, her hands shaking visibly. She looks up to you and steps forward and reaches up and puts her hand to the side of your face and looks to you with a piercing honesty and fear. She, lower lip quivering, whispers to you. "Percy, can I be trusted? Do you trust me?"
Taliesin: All things considered, I think that you're more trustworthy than I am, at this point. Let's not forget that I was the one who let you down first. I'm going to give her one of the stones.
Laura: We were-- no, that was for the whole group! That was for the whole group, Percival.
Matt: "What is this?"
Sam: It's done.
Liam: Leave it alone.
Laura: (muffled) That's was going to save your fucking life later.
Taliesin: You're going to be so happy when we have instant access to the treasury.
Laura: All right.
Taliesin: If anything bad should happen, if there's any need of quick retreat or quick communication, this is a one-way trip to us. And in return, this is a one-way trip for us to you, in case of emergency.
Matt: She clasps it in her hand, holds it to her chest.
Taliesin: You were born for this. You were instructed in how to do this, where I never was.
Laura: And now you've got four other people keeping an eye on you.
Matt: She smiles and closes her eyes. "What you say is true." She looks over at each member of your group and looks back to Keeper Yennen. "If it so pleases this intended council, It would be my honor to represent the de Rolo bloodline in keeping this town safe." Keeper goes, "Then so be it. I shall inquire with the people of this town. We will forge a council voted by the greater peoples of this place. And we shall restore Whitestone to its former glory. Very well. Go, enjoy the rest of your festival."
Sam: What was that cash prize? You had mentioned some sort of--
Matt: "Well, talk with Percival."
Taliesin: I will organize--
Laura: Oh, you have to give it to us? It has to come from you? That feels shady.
Taliesin: Let's not forget that within six hours of meeting each other, I ended up handing over an enormous sum of money to you.
Laura: It was actually 500 gold.
Taliesin: It was quite a bit of gold, if I recall. You have it written down, don't you? That's so endearing.
Liam: Is it? (laughter)
Matt: "Very well. Enjoy your festival, you've earned it. Go out, be merry. Let us all remember this time of year, the bonds that we carry, the loyalties that we hold to, and the heroism you stand for. Now go." At which point, the guards open the door and he steps out. The cold air rushes in, and you can see now, quite a bit of soft snowfall is now coming upon the center of the town.
Liam: I'm sorry, is there a washroom here? My sister's a little drunk and managed to yak on me a bit and I would really love to wash up a bit. Anywhere nearby?
Matt: He points off to the side. There's a small bucket of cold water that's set by the side.
Liam: Okay, I use it.
Matt: You manage to dampen your outfit to the point of getting it off, although it is a bit cold when you step outside now.
Laura: Can I follow him for a moment?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: I haven't talked to you very much lately.
Liam: No, you haven't.
Laura: You seem a bit off. Yeah. What's going on?
Liam: Nothing. I'm tired. We can relax for the first time in weeks.
Laura: I noticed your girlfriend isn't talking to you. Did you do something?
Liam: I will tell you just about everything, but I don't think I want to talk about that.
Laura: All right. I leave, as well.
Matt: All right. As the rest of the party joins, you all step out into the cold afternoon air. You are immediately greeted by the sound of music, laughter, and cheer. The rest of the festival continues on into dusk and you can't help but find the joy in the air infectious.
Marisha: Percy.
Taliesin: Yes?
Marisha: I actually have a present for you.
Taliesin: Really?
Marisha: Yeah, it comes with a story.
Taliesin: (laughs) All right.
Marisha: You're the only one I-- should we go get drinks? Maybe we should go get drinks first. Let's go get drinks and then I'll give you your present.
Taliesin: All right. In that case--
Marisha: Alcohol makes everything better.
Taliesin: Alcohol does make everything better.
Laura: Speaking of presents, even though you're being kind of a dick.
Liam: Wow, you ran fast to catch up with me.
Laura: I was going to buy you something, but then I realized sometimes old is better than new.
Sam: It's an old person. (laughter)
Matt: Vox Machina's favorite!
Marisha: Kill it!
Liam: Already dead.
Laura: You know what that is?
Matt: As you open the package, you see before you, a familiar belt of leather, with a coiled snake on the buckle.
Sam: How did you get that?!
Laura: I've got ways.
Sam: It was in Uriel's palace, wasn't it?
Laura: I'm a really good winker, if you haven't noticed.
Travis: She is.
Sam: Did you wink somebody for that? You slutty little thing.
Laura: (laughs)
Liam: Hello, Simon. (slithering sound) (laughter)
Sam: Oh no, it's just a real snake, it's biting you!
Travis: Revenge achieved!
Liam: I am too embarrassed to look her in the eye, and stare for a moment, but then finally, still not looking at her because she's fucking freaking me out, pull her into a hug and say, I love you, Stubby. I'm never going to leave your side, I'm always going to be there. You can always be a pain in the ass like you are. I love you. Always have, always will. Thank you.
Laura: Thank you. And then I slap him across the face.
Liam: What the fuck was that for?
Laura: I love you, too.
Marisha: When I was helping the farmers clean up, I had this strange moment where I was walking through the field and saw a dead raven.
Sam: Here it is.
Marisha: (laughs) More or less. It caught my attention and it made me think about the past several weeks, what we've been through and everything. Don't know-- who knows, it probably died, actually, in the rebellion. Maybe my ice storm killed it or something.
Taliesin: You're doing very well.
Marisha: Thanks. I was looking at it and it reminded me of everything and I feel like I was instantly trying to forget about everything because I don't want to remember. But we should. And I don't want to remember you the way you were. Because it was scary, and I didn't like it. I like you now. So I took the dead bird and cleaned it and kept its skull and put it in this box for you, as a reminder of what you could have become. What any of us could have become, really, at any time. Because we shouldn't forget.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Marisha: It's a little macabre and I would have bought things, but we're out of money.
Taliesin: I won't forget.
Marisha: I'm glad that's not you.
Taliesin: I can't even think of what the revenge felt like anymore. It's not... it doesn't weigh on me. Just regret.
Marisha: Regret?
Taliesin: Of how much better I could have been. Thank you. I will try to be better.
Marisha: No better than you could have been. There's still a lot to come, you know.
Taliesin: That's my plan.
Marisha: I think we all wish we were better than we could have been. Seeing that bird, I'm sure the bird felt the same way. But fuck it, he's dead now.
Taliesin: (laughs) You're strange, you know that?
Marisha: I know, I'm sorry.
Taliesin: No, we like it. Don't change.
Marisha: I'm glad you didn't change.
Sam: Grog, I got you an Amazon gift card. It's a forest called the Amazon. You can go there and get a gift.
Travis: Is it far?
Sam: Oh, really far, you'll never use it.
Travis: Re-gift!
Liam: Well guys, Vox Machina is now free and clear of all evil influence. (laughter)
Marisha: No shadowy demons. Feels good.
Travis: Feels good!
Matt: With that, Vox Machina continues to enjoy the joyous affair that is the Winter's Crest festival. Snowfall slowly covering the night sky as the sun comes to dusk. You withdraw to tell stories, sing songs, and drink merrily as the friends you are, looking forward to the next chapter in your adventure. And with that, we're going to go ahead and close the Winter's Crest episode of our adventure and leave you guys to the holiday break. We have a couple cool announcements to make. One, we had our winner earlier from our subscriber count, we hit a hundred. Our winner, if they haven't already announced it, is Saxecutioner.
Sam: Saxecutioner.
Matt: You'll get yourself a cool care package we're going to ship out to you.
Marisha: I think the Boonzy Arts candle is going out.
Matt: Yes!
Taliesin: Boonzy Arts candle. Scent-sy Saxecutioner.
Matt: Indeed, indeed. Let's see, we'll be gone for a few weeks until we come back for our next episode. We're on our holiday break, we're going to get our stuff taken care of, but we'll be back as soon as we can.
Laura: Do we know what date that is going to be at?
Liam: I mean, we come back next Thursday, right? Again, right? We play again every week. Every Thursday.
Zac: The seventh.
Matt: The seventh. And I think Zac has something you wanted to mention.
Taliesin: Did you have a thing, Zac?
Matt: Come on in, buddy.
Zac: So, I have fairly serious announcement, I guess. Hopefully our cameraman Ryan already left for Star Wars. And sorry to like pull the rug out from under you guys, but this is officially my last Critical Role in person. I have been hired to be CEO of a new media company in collaboration with Harebrained Schemes, up in Seattle. And I start on January first. So, this is my last one, so I just wanted to tell you guys, thank you. Thank you to the community. This has been one of the most amazing years of my life. It's been really cool to see what we've accomplished as a community, as a group, being cool on the internet and not dicks has been really cool. As an audience, like you guys and all of us and the amount of money we've been able to raise for charity. I can promise you that the channel's fine, the shows are fine. Lucas will be taking over the commander-in-chief position, so Lucas!
Marisha: Lucas!
Taliesin: Lucas!
Zac: Most people don't know--
Marisha: The man behind the curtain.
Zac: The man that runs the boards. So Lucas is getting a promotion.
Matt: Yes.
Zac: He's back there.
Laura: I see his legs. He's not walking this way.
Zac: He's not moving. Tomorrow, we're going to have a big party. It's going to be my last stream on Geek and Sundry. It's going to be a big party to celebrate. It'll be a lot of fun. We're going to do some dancing, we'll have some special guests coming by. And he's going to widen the camera just so he can get in the shot. We're also going to be knighting Lucas tomorrow night, so you guys should definitely tune in for that and watch us knight Lucas. We've been training him up, getting him ready. But again, thank you everyone for this amazing experience. You can follow me on Twitter if you want to know more about what's coming up. It'll be in a couple of months, we'll be launching that and I'll make sure to keep streaming on my channel and Lucas, of course, will continue the spirit. We'll still be in communication, everything's good. So you know. (laughter)
Zac: There's no hard feelings at all. I'm not dumping a load of shit on him and walking away.
Lucas: We'll figure it out.
Zac: We'll figure it out. Everybody, so thank you guys so much. I don't really have anything more to say other than thank you.
Marisha: Overlord, Overlord.
Travis: Overlord, Overlord.
Matt: I don't think you guys truly, as an audience understand exactly how much he's done to build this channel, the blood, sweat, and tears. I mean, both of them!
Zac: Literally, not figuratively.
Matt: Zac has made us all feel so comfortable and so excited to create this whole thing and has given so much of himself and put so much of himself into this and really, if you have the opportunity on Twitter or wherever else to follow him to his new job, let him know and feel the appreciation. He's awesome and an amazing human being and we're going to miss him terribly. But we're so happy and excited for your new ventures.
Zac: Yes! (Overlord theme)
Zac: I'm going to exit on that.
Laura: Huzzah to Zac!
All: Huzzah! Huzzah to Zac!
Matt: All righty.
Laura: It's still going.
Matt: There we go. Cross straight over. That song goes on for a while, too. There you go. All right, so. One more quick little exit here for you guys before we go on holiday break, we've had a special guest, came in today to check out the stream. Big fan of his work for a very long time and extremely proud he came to watch the episode and he's been live-tweeting throughout the evening, but he wants to come in and give a little holiday hello as well. We have to the cameras, come sit next to me in this chair, the illustrious Chris Perkins. (cheering)
Matt: It's everything I hoped it would be!
Liam: He's made of dice!
Chris perkins: What's on tap for next year?
Matt: Oh, you'll find out. It's all positive!
Chris perkins: Oh, really?
Matt: No.
Chris perkins: I have some suggestions.
Matt: Okay, we'll talk. (laughter)
Travis: Let us live!
Laura: He's going to kill us all!
Marisha: I will say, I feel like the DM power, the balance--
Laura: It's over 9000!
Marisha: It's over 9000!
Travis: It's like if suns meet.
Matt: Terrible things happen behind this.
Chris perkins: This is a real treat for me, thank you. Thank you everybody.
Matt: Thanks for coming, sincerely.
Chris perkins: No, this is magic.
Matt: Go ahead and roll this for a second. I'm just curious.
Chris perkins: Okay. Whoa.
Matt: Yeah, it's a fan-made die. All right, yeah. It's a 15. Oh wait. It's like a Sputnik die. So he rolled a 15. That's DM rolling right there. That's upper teens, yo.
Chris perkins: I rolled a 20.
Matt: Oh, there we go. See, there we go. Natural 20. Thank you so much for coming by, man. Seriously.
Chris perkins: I really appreciate it. It was great to hang out. Watch the magic happen. My favorite quote of the night was, "Don't be sad bear, be happy bear." (laughter)
Chris perkins: I'm going to use that one. Take that one back with me.
Matt: Go for it. So guys, next year, look forward to the next Dungeons and Dragons module, "Don't Be Sad Bear."
Travis: Yes!
Matt: I think it's for levels three to seven. It'll be really great. For those who aren't familiar with Chris, he's been a longtime dungeon master inspiration for a lot of us out there, who's put up a blog for a long time with a lot of great tips and tricks and discussions on what makes a great story, what makes running a great game. If you aren't following him right now, you should, on Twitter at--
Chris perkins: I don't know.
Travis: Oh no!
Chris perkins: @ChrisPerkinsDnD.
Matt: There you go. So, that should work out well. Thank you so much for coming.
Chris perkins: Thank you.
Matt: I appreciate that. And guys, happy holidays and happy New Year. We'll see you--
Zac: I forgot, I have one more quick announcement. I can't believe I forgot this. So, I was talking to the mods about it and some other people, maybe I told them. So I'm going to challenge you guys in the chat, my one last final challenge to you all. I am going to get a tattoo to commemorate my year at Geek and Sundry here. And I would like that to be of you guys's design. So I'm going to challenge you guys on the internet to tag me and a week from today, I will Periscope me getting a tattoo that someone in the chat room designed. Most likely a Snugglelord; it'd be cool if it was a Snugglelord.
Travis: I'm pretty sure I'm going to draw you a cock and balls.
Zac: Travis wants me to tattoo a cock and balls. So, as long as it can be a cock and balls with Travis's face.
Matt: I'll vote for that.
Travis: A big veiny triumphant bastard.
Marisha: How about Snugglelord riding Travis's cock and balls?
Zac: You've been challenged. You've been challenged. But I definitely want to do that to always have with me a little memory from this last year. I really honestly can't tell you guys how much this year meant to me and I want to make sure that I will never forget, even if my brain starts to fall away. I'll be like, oh look, Travis's--
Laura: Cock and balls.
Marisha: Cock and balls.
Travis: He was so good at Halo.
Matt: Yeah. (laughter)
Matt: Well, nothing could possibly go wrong with that. So go ahead and get your designs together, submit those and see if you could be responsible for designing a permanent piece of illustrious Overlord's body. Wow. I'm excited for that now.
Travis: Let's let the gates open.
Matt: Exactly. You guys, happy holidays.
Marisha: One more announcement. Sorry, I lied, one more.
Matt: This is like Lord of the Rings. This is Return of the King. It's got seven endings.
Marisha: Yeah, well, it's going to be a double feature. There will be a finale to the comic strip of the Winter's Crest festival, so keep checking the Geek and Sundry website because I believe it's going to go up on Christmas Eve, actually. So yeah, check it out.
Matt: Fantastic.
Marisha: Still more stuff.
Matt: All right. Anyone else?
Laura: Is there going to be a Critical Role marathon or something coming up soon?
Matt: Are you guys playing Critical Role over the holidays?
Lucas: At some point.
Matt: At some point, there'll be a marathon.
Taliesin: What a perfect time to get your friends hooked.
Matt: There you go, it'll be on the Twitter.
Zac: Lucas will let you know when it's up.
Matt: Lucas will let you know.
Marisha: There is a bajillion hours' worth.
Lucas: So, the plan is, the mods will be creating a Twitch playlist, so it won't show up as us being online. It will say we're offline, but you can come to our actual Twitch page and there will be marathons of each show individually. Critical Role will be later on. It's not going to be the first one that we marathon and that will be for probably a week and a half until I get into the studio and make actual playlists and you'll get that e-mail that says-- probably not Critical Role, but just an entire streaming marathon-- I don't even know. I'll figure it out. I've got a week and a half to figure it out, but there will be a playlist coming right up. Next Monday.
Laura: All right! Good announcement! Good job! (cheering)
Taliesin: Hail the new king!
Zac: First announcement!
Matt: They grow up so fast! (air horn sounds, laughter)
Matt: Awesome. Well, I guess then we'll relinquish you guys to watch your Star Wars.
Travis: Oh, actually--
Matt: (frustrated growl) I will smash your mini. I would never do that. I painted it. Far too long. All right, guys. Seriously, happy holidays, happy new year.
Laura: Happy holidays.
Taliesin: Happy Winter's Crest.
Marisha: Happy Winter's Crest.
Matt: Indeed. Bye guys.
Liam: I have a snake!
Travis: See you on the other side.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone and welcome to ta-te-ple-plah. It's already off to a good start, huh?
Travis: (laughs) Yes.
Marisha: Beautiful.
Taliesin: Live streaming.
Matt: Welcome to this evening's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons.
Travis: And make fun of our DM.
Matt: Exactly. Live internet, it's a wonderful thing. This is why you don't drink before a game. All right, so, first and foremost, thank you. Welcome. We're jumping in here shortly from a bit of a climatic endpoint last week, but before we get into that, we're going to go ahead and try and cruise through these pre-show announcements. So, first and foremost, I want to let you guys know that the short video series I'm doing for Geek and Sundry, that's GM and DM Tips, launched last week on Friday, and a few videos will be coming out every Friday for the next couple months or so, so every Friday go check that out on GeekandSundry.com to see what other bit of rambling I'm doing and hoping to try and help some of you make your game a little more interesting. So tomorrow I guess is the next one. I'm not quite sure what topic it's on, but it should be fun. So check that out. As a reminder, most of us are going to be present at Wizard World Portland next month. We'll be there Saturday and Sunday for the con, and we'll have a panel both days. I think Saturday is the Critical Role panel, and Sunday is going to be more of a voiceover-related one, so hope to see you guys there. Bring your stuff if you want to have it signed and come get ready to ask questions and hang out, basically.
Laura: And par-ty!
Travis: And also find us during the days in the general hall area, we'll be around quite a bit.
Matt: Yeah, we'll be around. So, if you would like to see us possibly come to a Wizard World near you in the future, go ahead and send a tweet to Wizard World's Twitter, and let them know how excited you'd be to see us at more events in the future, because that would make them more inclined to want to bring us to more events! Let's see-- Also as a reminder, me and Marisha will be at Colorado Anime Fest, February 12th through the 14th in Denver, Colorado.
Marisha: Valentine's Day Weekend.
Matt: Yep, so we'll be out there, hanging with you folks in Colorado. You should come say hello, we'd love to see you. Also, a reminder, the Dungeon Masters Guild, awesome new opportunity for content creators for Dungeons and Dragons. You know, create your own classes, your own rules, your own feats, your own stuff. There's a great place to put it up there, and you can set your price for it. You can check out my most updated version of the Blood Hunter and recently updated Gunslinger, which is now version 1.1, just went up yesterday, so if you have one of those you can update that and get the newest set. A couple minor changes and tweaks.
Travis: And it's super cool.
Taliesin: Anything I need to know about?
Matt: Nothing you have to worry about yet. It was mainly the level 15 ability piercing shot and a couple of clarifications that I know. You'll be fine.
Marisha: It's for you to find out, all right.
Taliesin: That's his subtle way of saying I'm not going to make level 15.
Matt: Could be. Ouch. We shall see. All right, Wyrmwood Gaming, awesome friend of the show. They still have their 'critrole' discount code, you get free shipping if you go ahead and order something from their site, really awesome-
Liam: 'critrole'. The code is 'critrole'.
Matt: Just one delightful word. Pretty wood. That's a cool arrangement, I like that.
Marisha: Thanks. I designed it like this.
Taliesin: You're so creative.
Matt: Oh, and Liam, if you want to check your Twitter, there's a cool little present I think waiting for you now from one of our fan artists. You know her as Mikandii, is her Twitter. She has a cool little thing for you.
Liam: Yes I will, I am very excited
Laura: Is it you and Gilmore making out?
Liam: That's emblazoned on the inside of my mind. Wow!
Laura: What is it? What is it?
Liam: Wow. Oh, nothing.
Laura: No, I want to see it!
Laura: Wow! That's amazing!
Matt: I haven't seen it yet, so I'm excited.
Liam: Wow. It's beautiful. Thank you.
Laura: Oh my god, he looks so dreamy.
Matt: So, go to @VoiceofOBrien to see what apparently he is looking at, that I have no idea what it is. Hopefully it's not just a giant dick.
Liam: That's included.
Marisha: It's subversive. It's what you see in the art.
Matt: Yeah, yeah. It's your interpretation.
Matt: Now I'm excited for that.
Marisha: Oh, I want to see the two side-by-side. Yes, there's a Kickstarter up right now called Lost Hope: the Series, that I'm a part of. It's like Battlestar Galactica meets Archer and, yeah. I voice a character named Simmons in there. It's fun. Go check it out.
Liam: That's a good pitch.
Matt: There you go. And the Mythica 4 Kickstarter is up right now, as well. They're already rocketing toward their goal, which is awesome, and you get to see me as an evil necromancer casting magic spells at good people. And actually at Kevin Sorbo, second film in a row I get to cast magic at him, pretty excited about that. So check that out. Did you have something you wanted to announce?
Travis: Yeah. Matt and I are both in Warner Bros. Home Entertainment's Batman: Bad Blood! Which is out right now on Digital Download on iTunes. It's solid rock. Can't move.
Laura: Solid rock.
Travis: Yeah. I play the Heretic. Matt plays a million other people. It's really cool, check it out. We fight Batman.
Matt: Yeah! I get electrocuted.
Travis: I sing Taylor Swift songs and all that.
Matt: I jump around and punch things, it's fun. Oh, and last but not least announcement, next Monday on Ivan's wonderful RPG show No Survivors, me, Laura, Felicia, Wil, a bunch of people, I haven't looked at the full list yet, are all going to be guesting on that as players for a round of one of my favorite RPGs, Paranoia.
Laura: Which I haven't ever played. But Ivan was telling me about it and it sounds like so much fun.
Matt: Yeah, it's one of my favorite RPG systems ever. So next Monday, go check out No Survivors. We're all going to be playing Paranoia and making ridiculous choices and probably dying in horrible, wonderful ways, so, we'll be there for that. Hi, Sam. Glad you could join us, buddy.
Sam: (whispering) Thanks.
Matt: Sam Riegel, ladies and gentlemen.
Liam: Hi, Sam.
Marisha: I like this sweater, is this new?
Sam: Thanks. Yeah.
Laura: It's so hot in here, though.
Sam: Oh no, I'll take it off.
Travis: You and me, we got problems now. (laughter)
Marisha: Oh god!
Travis: I'd like to Great Weapon Master right now. Where's Scanlan on the map?
Matt: He's right over here. You can work towards over there shortly.
Liam: All this time you've been trying to kick my teeth in and your real enemy is right over here.
Travis: True colors, (singing) shining through! (laughter)
Matt: All right! Good, it's getting you in character, perfect. So now we've finished all the announcements I believe, if anyone has anything else we're going to go ahead and get into tonight's episode of Critical Role. So, where we left off, our intrepid adventurers, Vox Machina, having returned the traitor Riskel Daxio to Sovereign Uriel in the center of the town of Emon, Grog beheading him as part of his punishment for being such a traitorous worshiper of the evil entity known as Vecna. Upon going out for a pub crawl, came across Gilmore in a secret speakeasy, managed to enjoy a Heroes' Feast at his expense, whereas Vex and Vax both, all of you, got pretty-- Keyleth got very-- drunk.
Laura: I didn't get drunk at all.
Matt: That's right, you didn't drink.
Marisha: I got pretty wasted.
Matt: Gilmore had a very intense conversation with Vax over there to ensure where they stood, and Keyleth vomited multiple times. But after which the party found their way back to the Keep, where Dr. Dranzel and his Spectacular Traveling Troupe were drinking and expecting you to be there, in which they could converse and try and convince you of a little caper they've been trying to get their head around for a while, and you seem to have the entry to this possible windfall of money. Scanlan, after courting this young, pixie-haired gnome--
Sam: I sort of knew in the back of my head, right? No, I was courting her. No, it's true. (laughter)
Matt: Was instead confronted in his bedroom by Kaylie, who revealed herself to be Scanlan's long-unknown daughter from many years ago, who had trained very hard as a bard at the College of the White Duke, in Westruun, and honed her skills with a blade with the intent of finding you one day and disgracing you. Thanks to Scanlan's sudden realization, change of heart, and attempt to connect with his lost blood, broke a bit of that cold honed exterior, and managed to prevent a very dangerous and possibly deadly encounter. She left frustrated and confused, and hasn't been seen since. The rest of you, gathering the next morning, discussed this endeavor with Dr. Dranzel and how they had found a home that had been long abandoned after being purchased by a collector. A home that you guys had ransacked a little over a year before after finding a portal within that led to a dragon's hoard, as the previous person who lived there, General Krieg, was actually a dragon who had infiltrated the Council.
Laura: A really hot dragon. I remember thinking he was really cute. I had a thing for General Krieg. I was really sad when it turned out he was--
Matt: I'm sorry it worked out that way.
Matt: Yeah, that was Grog's famous rage looting. General Krieg, Bonescythe-- Brimscythe, sorry. They're close. Brimscythe the Dragon was slaughtered in this endeavor, however it's been over a year since. You guys returned to this house, scoured it, found your way through the still existing secret passage that led you to the now partially collapsed cavern, which once housed Brimscythe and his hoard. You found that the tunnel itself, freezing cold, the rubble of the partially collapsed cavern had been ravaged by some sort of large clawed entity that Vex had identified as another equally dangerous dragon that seems to have rummaged through and found the corpse of Brimscythe. You also found that a number of gold coins, a bit of his hoard that had been buried in this, were now exposed by these strange, smooth tunnels that were carved into the rock. Upon you, Scanlan, and Trinket inquiring there, the rest of the party scattered. Pike and Keyleth went to find what seemed to be the owner of the house, now frozen in fright in a far alcove. And the three, the rest of your group, traveling towards the mouth of the cavern itself, before the ground begins to rumble. Suddenly, exploding from the rock and shale of the bottom of the cavern floor, you guys managed to see before you, piercing forth from the ground itself, a very, very large, segmented, armored, worm-like entity.
Sam: Armored?
Matt: The actual hide itself is like very, very thick.
Laura: Super thick? Ugh!
Sam: Like with armor?
Matt: Not with armor, just this natural sense.
Laura: When we kill it, we can make armor out of him.
Liam: And it was pale and icy, too, I think you were describing?
Matt: It was darkish purple in its color and tint, like dark blacks, purple, with rows and rows of teeth coming out of its eyeless face. As it bursts out of the surface, I need you all to roll initiative.
Laura: No!
Sam: Oh my god, right away, right away. We're just in it. Just like that.
Travis: Fuck yeah!
Matt: All right, so. 25 to 20?
Travis: 20, to kill Scanlan. (laughter)
Matt: 20 to 15?
Marisha: 19.
Sam: That's it?
Liam: 15.
Matt: 15 to ten?
Taliesin: Ten.
Sam: 11.
Matt: All right, then comes ten to five?
Laura: Nine.
Matt: And Pike, while, as she's not here, rolled the lowest. Ashley, unfortunately, due to scheduling, could not be here this evening. So far, we're hoping she might show up at some point tonight, we'll find out. But, in the meantime, I'm going to be running Pike on my end. So, starting the encounter, as you see this giant worm creature through the tunnel, the three of you now walking the other direction, you, feeling the rumble, turn around, holding forth your greatsword unsheathed, you can feel the power pulsing with each beat of your blood through your body, as a little voice in the back of your head, stemming from your weapon, goes, "Kill." You're up, Grog.
Travis: Well, I hope you're hungry. But you have to wait one second, we're a bit far away. Can I travel as far as I can towards?
Matt: Speed of 50, I believe?
Travis: 50.
Laura: Oh, I said I hid at the end of the episode. I said I hid.
Matt: Right, roll stealth.
Travis: Do I have a line of sight with him, or is the edge of that outcropping blocking it?
Matt: He would have half cover if you were to try and like, throw your weapon at him. It'd be a plus five to his armor class.
Marisha: Pike and I are hiding, too.
Matt: Okay, stealth check for both of you.
Travis: Could I back up three squares, so that I could move to my left so I could get a straight look at him?
Matt: There, you mean?
Travis: Can I go one more?
Matt: That's the extent of your movement right there, unfortunately. Unless you want to go at this angle, there. There you go.
Travis: Can I use the Javelin of Lightning?
Sam: What the fuck is that? That's a thing you made up.
Travis: Oh, yeah, I've got it. I utter the magic word "Penelope" and I throw it and each creature in the line, excluding me and the target, must make a DC 13 dexterity saving throw.
Matt: Okay, there are no creatures in the line, just the target.
Travis: Just the target then.
Liam: Did you get that in Yug'Voril?
Travis: Huh?
Liam: Yug'Voril. Is it from Yug'Voril?
Travis: I don't remember, it's just in the bag.
Liam: In Yug'Voril, at the bottom of that pit, when he headbutted the giant.
Matt: Yup, that was in the rubble.
Liam: Yeah! Ding!
Matt: Good memory!
Travis: Can I try and throw it?
Matt: You may, go for it.
Travis: 18.
Matt: 18 total? 18 just hits. So, go ahead and roll damage for the javelin. As you rear back, aim it with your eyes, and the frustration is palpable from Craven Edge as you put it aside to throw the javelin instead as it arcs into a bolt of energy that streaks forth, slams into the hide of the giant purple worm. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: 19.
Matt: 19. All righty. Great. It rears in place, shakes itself for a second. It has no eyes, so it's not looking in any different direction, it just seems to be flailing in its current location.
Travis: Can I go into a rage?
Matt: Yes you may.
Travis: I would like to rage.
Matt: All right. (laughs)
Laura: Are you rolling your special dice?
Matt: As you bite your lower lip, you feel and taste the blood begin to enter your mouth, and at that point the heat in the back of your shoulders and neck begins to swell up. Grog's into a rage. That ends your turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Can I do, like, a nature check on this thing to see if I can discern any type of information on it?
Matt: Sure. Go ahead and make an intelligence check.
Marisha: Just straight intelligence? That's not good. I think that is a five? Six! Six!
Matt: Six. You have no recollection of this type of an entity in your travels. It's definitely not natural, it's not of nature, and you've seen various types of eyeless worm-type creatures, but nowhere near on this scale. So, yeah. You have no idea beyond that.
Marisha: I'm just going to whisper to Pike, and be like: It doesn't have any eyes! I feel like we shouldn't move!
Matt: She goes, "Okay!" And she gets as still as she possibly can. "It's good! Moving's not my forte."
Marisha: Okay! I, like, hold her shoulder pads so she doesn't clink any.
Matt: "Okay!"
Marisha: Okay! I'm going to stay right here!
Matt: All right. So that ends your turn. Vax, you're up. Unless you want to do something else on your turn, is that it?
Marisha: I'm just, I'm just going to, I don't want to move. I'm just going to wait.
Sam: (mocking) I don't want to, I don't want to move!
Marisha: I don't want to move!
Liam: Click the Boots of Haste, and I want to go stealth, and scoot to that column past Grog, but closer to the worm. Not that one, the next one. Yeah. I think I can make it there.
Matt: All right. You can get there.
Liam: Do I need to roll stealth?
Matt: You can roll stealth, yeah.
Liam: I want to throw a dagger at it. Yeah. That is 28.
Matt: All right. That definitely hits. However, it is not sneak attack damage. You are hiding definitely behind the pillar, but your footsteps. And you get the essence as soon as you see the creature, its head follows you across the room, you get the sense immediately that it is not a sight-based creature, it is definitely a movement-based creature, and its head just follows you as you move.
Liam: I'll defer, but let me ask, going stealth and rolling a 28 on stealth, the footsteps were still enough to alert it to where I was?
Matt: Is it a natural 20?
Liam: I didn't attack yet. No, it was a combined 28, just to go stealth.
Matt: A combined 28. Right, even so, not quite light enough. Not with the knowledge that it was an issue with this entity, and due to the proximity of it, and it being a very sensitive creature to the rock's movement, it still picks you up.
Liam: And I should have one attack. I should have an attack, right? Because I did the boots, I ran over here--
Matt: Yep, so you have an attack.
Liam: Two.
Matt: Well, two attacks, you have offhand, so yeah.
Liam: Two, yeah. Two, because it was double the speed because of the boots. All right. First one is shit. That is 14. And the second one is-- I'm going to do Luck on that. The second one is 20.
Matt: The second one hits. The first one unfortunately just bounces off of its hide.
Liam: That's not a lot. But it is seven points of damage.
Matt: Seven points of damage, got it.
Liam: First blood. First blood, everyone.
Sam: It's looking pretty beat up.
Matt: All right. At this point in time, the dagger embeds itself in. You see the hilt sinks into the hide and then vanishes in a puff of smoke as it returns to your belt, however you can see a little bit of black liquid pouring forth from it, and its head has been trained on you since you moved across the room. The worm now disappears beneath the ground.
Taliesin: Not cool.
Matt: And you feel the ground beneath you begin to shake, as it bursts out of the ground. That's a 20 to hit.
Liam: 20? Can I use Evasion or no?
Matt: To reduce the damage in half if you want. Huh? What's your AC?
Liam: Oh, with the boots on, 18.
Matt: It rolled a 20.
Liam: Yeah, I know. So tell me what happens.
Matt: So, as you look around you all of a sudden the jaws start coming up out of the ground behind you, the teeth biting into your body as you try and wrest yourself away from its grip. You take 20 points of piercing damage.
Liam: Oh, well, Uncanny Dodge. Right? Evasion is for spell effects--
Matt: Right, Evasion does not help you in this circumstance, Uncanny Dodge allows you to reduce the damage by half. So yes, you can do that. So you take ten damage instead. I need you to make a dexterity saving throw.
Liam: That's okay. All right, so. Okay. Natural 20!
Matt: As the jaws attempt to clamp around you, you manage to just pull yourself away, tearing your knees across the teeth, but rolling in the opposite direction, right in the place where you were as it bursts out of the ground just beside you and rights itself around in that direction. As its full body emerges now, you can see its tail flop out of the tunnel it just made with this giant hooked stinger on the end as it whips off in your direction. That is going to be a 15 to hit.
Travis: That'll miss.
Matt: That misses you. As the stinger swings towards you, you manage to just duck out of the way, your eyes trained on it in an absolute red fury, and it just whiffs past your face.
Sam: Could've been bad, could've been bad.
Matt: That ends its turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Who's in front of me?
Matt: Right now you're next to Trinket and Vex is behind you.
Laura: (laughing) Don't be a dick!
Sam: I'm not going to be a dick. I brush past Trinket so I can see the worm.
Matt: Okay, about there, you can see it from that perspective.
Sam: Okay I hold up my cone, my Hand Cone of Clarity, and I will cast Eyebite. Singing to it (singing) Scanlan's eyes are biting you. Making you very sick. Ooh, Scanlan's eyes are biting you. Scanlan's eyes! All right, so the Eyebite refers to my eyes. He doesn't need eyes. He doesn't need to be able to see me, I have to be able to see him, right? It works. Okay, so I'm going to do Sicken.
Matt: To sicken it? All right. All right, it rolls, this is a wisdom saving throw? It rolls an eight. So yeah, it does not succeed on that. Eyebite takes hold. Get this little marker on there, on its neck, like a little-- There we go. So as your spell completes on it, you can see its form contracts for a second and its head hangs a little less strong as it did previously. It almost goes slack for a moment from the impact of the spell affecting its physical form. All right, so it has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks, for as long as it lasts. All right, so that's your movement, that's your action, any bonus actions?
Sam: I will inspire Vex. With a limerick.
Laura: I can't wait.
Sam: I once knew a bear named Trinket, and would often tell you he stink-et, but you were appalled, so you kicked me in the balls, and now I don't say it, I just think it. (laughter)
Laura: That was wonderful!
Matt: A d10 inspiration die to you, Vex.
Laura: Yay!
Liam: Plus or minus?
Matt: (laughs) We'll see.
Marisha: Am I able to take a bonus action to like shout something out over comms?
Matt: I'll allow it, since you held your turn this turn anyways, yeah.
Marisha: Yeah? Everyone should try and get a little bit so I can see you. And I can make us all fly.
Laura: (shouting) What? You can make us fly?
Marisha: I learned it today. But you have to be within 30 feet of me.
Laura: Oh, really, but I'm so far away from you.
Marisha: You know, imagine I said it more succinctly than this.
Matt: (laughs) That's as much as you can get out. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: All right, I'm going to head in the direction of the message I just received. So I'm going to crawl around the bottom there.
Laura: Ugh, I'm not going to be able to get to her.
Matt: That's as far as you can get.
Taliesin: That's as far as I can get, that's fine. I'm going to take a couple shots, with the big gun. I'm going to Bad News this. So, let's take a shot at that guy. Yeah, that's reasonable range. Yeah, okay. Not too close. That's not bad, 21.
Matt: 21 hits.
Taliesin: 28 points of damage.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Quick reload, going to get one more shot off and I'm going to take this one with the sharpshooter effect just to see how things go.
Matt: Sure. The sharpshooter effect, you mean the deadeye?
Taliesin: Yep. Yeah, the deadeye. The negative five to hit.
Matt: Oh, got you, got you, all right.
Taliesin: 14.
Matt: 14 does not hit, unfortunately. As you load the second round, you pull Bad News in front of you and you go to fire, the ground actually shakes beneath you. There's a quaking. Not sure if it's from the creature or just the atmosphere around you, but as you do the gun just misfires and, well, it actually doesn't misfire, but it fires off into one of the side elements of the cave and you hear it ricochet off the rock.
Taliesin: That's what I got.
Matt: All right, that's 28 damage, 28 damage is not bad. All right, Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. Will you be able to move forward?
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to send Trinket up to that little alcove. Keep running, no, a little further-- a little further.
Matt: That's-- what's Trinket's movement? Is it 40? So he can go there.
Laura: That's as close as he can get to you.
Matt: Six, actually seven, eight. So that'd be the full movement.
Laura: Okay. Get him tucked into that little side.
Matt: Trinket is now stepping onto a bit of slick of ice and is like (unbalanced bear noises) but seems to be okay at the moment.
Laura: Okay. And then I move forward so I can see him. Right there. All right. And I'm going to Hunter's Mark him! And then I'm going to shoot my Longbow of the Sky Sentinel at him. So that, I'm going to shoot an arrow and it divides into three arrows and they all turn into storm arrows. So I roll an attack for each one of those for my first attack.
Matt: Correct. Yep. Yep. As you release the arrow from the actual tension of the bow, as soon as it leaves your fingers it almost burns the tips as it races into this arrow of pure energy. As it divides in the middle of the air, you can see each arrow sparking off bits of electrical power on its--
Laura: Okay, so the first one is a 26.
Matt: Hits.
Laura: Should I roll damage for that one?
Matt: Roll to see how many hit.
Laura: The second one is a 29.
Matt: Hits.
Laura: The third one is a 20.
Matt: 20 hits. Yeah, all three hit.
Liam: This is all happening in less than six seconds.
Laura: 17-- 20. 23 for the first arrow.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: Nine, ten, 11, 13. 17 for the second one. And then 14, 15, 16...
Sam: I feel bad for this thing.
Laura: 22. 20, what is that? 27 for the third.
Matt: Oof, all right. As each arrow slams into its side, you can see portions of its large chitinous, almost like armored shell crack and break open. And you can see now these streams of black worm blood are spilling down its side. And it starts shaking in place now in pain.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to shoot through my Blazing Bowstring for my second attack.
Matt: All right.
Sam: Second attack?
Laura: Yeah, that was just one.
Matt: Yeah, she gets that once a day.
Laura: 25.
Matt: 25 hits.
Travis: You have more dice than that dice store.
Laura: I know, it's ridiculous. 16-- 16-- 19, and then an additional d10. So 19 of fire damage. So 25 for the third.
Matt: 25. Oof. That is a nasty round. Well done.
Laura: For the fourth arrow.
Matt: As this fourth arrow slams into its side there's a burst of fire from the impact and you can see it now. It's starting to shriek this horrible high-pitched multi-toned scream. All right, that ends your turn.
Laura: And I rolled a 15 for stealth, not that it probably matters anymore.
Matt: Nah, no, it doesn't really. All right.
Laura: And then I stay very, very still.
Matt: Cool, so does Pike. Pike's going to follow in Keyleth's order and spend the round just keeping in place, very quietly. All right, top of the round again. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Oh, are we flying?
All: No.
Travis: Fuck it! I take Craven Edge out. I hope you're hungry. And I would like to go into a frenzied rage.
Matt: All right.
Travis: And I would like to attack, the first two times, at the big purple dick that just came out of the ground.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Hey, move down a bit so you're not in my way.
Travis: Which way?
Matt: Grog's just charging in.
Travis: That's a 23?
Matt: 23 hits.
Travis: 20?
Matt: 20 hits.
Travis: Wow. 26?
Matt: All three hit. These are non-Great Weapon Master, right?
Travis: The third one I wanted it to be, should I reroll since I didn't specify?
Matt: Reroll because you didn't say it, yeah.
Travis: 17.
Matt: That misses, unfortunately. But the first two do hit. Yeah, you got to mention that before you make the attack.
Travis: I do, I do. You're right. 2d6. What do sixes look like? They're squares.
Laura: They're squares. (laughter)
Sam: Cubes, really.
Travis: Jeez, three, eight, 16 for the first one.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: And 16 for the second one.
Matt: All righty. What's the DC on the sword effect, again? Is it 12?
Travis: Oh! Yep.
Matt: All right. So it succeeds its first saving throw and it succeeds its second saving throw. But you do see with each strike the intent of the sword to draw some of the strength and life force from the target. Not really making any effect, unfortunately. All right! Ending your turn, Grog, that vibration you feel in the ground, now? It's curious, because the worm itself is out of the ground, now. What caused you to lose your shot? You feel it grow stronger and stronger, before suddenly, nearby, a secondary, different-looking, but similar in size, worm comes bursting out of the base of the cavern.
Laura: Matthew Mercer! You're trying to kill us.
Matt: You can see now, as this bursts out, it's similar in size, but different. This one has a thicker body, it's a purple and white type exterior, and you can see frozen mist is just emanating from the outside of its open jaw.
Laura: No, this is the one that pukes ice.
Marisha: (laughs) Pukes ice?
Laura: This is what made the dude frozen!
Matt: As this one rears back, opens its jaw, and a burst of cold air and ice shards comes spraying out of its mouth--
Laura: Look at this cone you have.
Matt: Heading towards these-- actually, it would get the other worm too.
Laura: Yes! Yes! Freeze the other worm!
Matt: I need a constitution saving throw from Grog and Vax.
Liam: I want to do an Evasion, that's an area effect!
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah?
Matt: Make your constitution saving throw.
Liam: All right. (laughs) Do I do the dex save first, or--?
Matt: It's not a dex save. Constitution save.
Liam: Oh, it's not an area effect? All right. Whatever you say. Natural 20.
Travis: 21.
Matt: 21. All right. Good.
Travis: Saving throw, right? Constitution?
Matt: Constitution saving throw. So, read your ability real fast, does it affect only dex saves?
Liam: Evasion on dex save-- I've written an abbreviated version of this. It's area of effect, if it's like Fireball or anything that's in an area.
Matt: Right, but I think it may specify whether or not--
Liam: Oh, but you're god, what do you want me to do?
Matt: I'm just looking it up right now, give me a second.
Travis: Ooh! I have Danger Sense. I have advantage on dexterity saving throws.
Matt: This is not dexterity. This is constitution.
Sam: Oh, but you know what? I have really good dexterity.
Matt: Yep, dexterity saving throw. So this does not affect this attack. Sorry. All right, so you both take half damage, as does the creature.
Taliesin: That's a lot of rolling.
Sam: He's only rolling a d2. He's rolling a d2.
Matt: All right! That's 40 points of damage, halved, that's 20 points of cold damage to each of you, and the purple worm.
Liam: Wait, 40 or 20?
Travis: Holy shit.
Laura: It does 40 points?!
Liam: Can I do Uncanny-- this is a new round, can I do Uncanny or not, yet?
Matt: It has not gotten back to your turn, so no.
Laura: We're going to die!
Travis: No, we're good! Shut up! We're fine!
Matt: All right. Now! It's Keyleth's turn.
Marisha: Here's what I want to try and do. I want to try and hope to god I can get everyone in here.
Liam: Shake that hangover off, Kiki.
Marisha: I wanted to-- oh wait, I'm trying to point the fucking-- point the laser at the screen.
Matt: Yeah, don't point at the screen. Point it at the actual map. That's okay.
Marisha: I want to try and go-- five, ten, 15-- can I go through Grog? Through there?
Matt: You can try to, yeah.
Laura: You're going to go past the worm, though!
Marisha: Can I go there? Wait, wait, back closer to the-- I want to be able to try and-- can I see Scanlan and stuff, over there?
Matt: You can see Scanlan, you can see pretty much everybody but Trinket from this perspective, and you can't see Pike.
Laura: Shit.
Marisha: All right.
Laura: Thought I was helping.
Marisha: Everyone, I guess, who's within 30 range of me, I'm going to do a wind blast, and we all turn into poofy cloud versions of ourselves.
Matt: Which one is this?
Marisha: Wind Walk. Poofy Cloud. So as I run past Grog, I brush his shoulder, and he turns into a mist form, and I turn into a mist form, and then I blast it out, and everyone's mist form!
Matt: All right, cool. So while in mist form, you guys have a flying speed of 300 feet, you have resistance to non-magical weapons, you can only dash.
Marisha: Oh, you can't attack?
Matt: No. You've got to read your spell. You can take a minute to revert your form, but as of right now, all of you guys currently, everyone within 30 feet.
Sam: I'm not within 30 feet.
Matt: You can see within range, so you can't see Pike. You've got to read the spell. Does not affect Trinket because you can't see Trinket. Doesn't affect you guys. Scanlan is just out of range. So Vex and Scanlan, you're unaffected. You watch half of the party turn into these gaseous forms.
Sam: Oh my god, the worms have turned us all into clouds!
Laura: You've left us stranded. We're going to die.
Marisha: No, we're still there.
Matt: It takes a minute to revert to your actual form to be able to do any sort of attack.
Marisha: Man, that was going to be way cooler if we could still...
Taliesin: I'm going to do something insane. I've got some plans.
Marisha: It was a 6th-level spell.
Matt: I know.
Sam: It was so good.
Marisha: Thanks, guys. I feel so validated.
Liam: She just learned it yesterday!
Marisha: I did just learn it yesterday.
Matt: Vax, it's your turn.
Liam: And I'm made of wind?
Matt: You're made of wind. You can move. You can dash, or you can begin to revert, if you'd like.
Liam: I can begin to revert? So it's a minute-long process that I have to consciously decide, and I know this?
Matt: You get the feeling that if you want to return, it will take you a while because you don't really know what to do with your form.
Marisha: We could try and get the fuck out of here.
Liam: I'm going to use disengage and I'm going to fart over towards my sister and Pike.
Matt: You cannot disengage. You can only dash in this form.
Liam: Oh, then I'm going to dash towards my sister and Pike.
Laura: Pike is on the other side. Me and Scanlan.
Liam: Oh. Scanlan and Vex, sorry.
Matt: So you move over.
Sam: Not all short people look alike.
Matt: You dash over here. That guy's going to take an attack of opportunity on you. He's going to have disadvantage, technically, because you all of a sudden stopped moving and it just hears the sound. It rolled a three. No. It whips past you with its mouth biting at nothing.
Liam: I want to land and then start thinking, god, I wish I was not made of farts, and start trying to undo whatever this is.
Matt: Okay. Ten rounds later, you will be a physical entity.
Laura: Ten rounds?!
Matt: A minute.
Liam: Dispel Magic, little man!
Laura: Okay, can I see him? Can I shoot through him?
Matt: You can shoot through him. He'll take half damage.
Liam: I'm crouching!
Marisha: We could use this to our advantage and get the fuck away, so I don't feel like I just wasted a 6th-level spell. Just want to say.
Liam: Fog of war, man.
Matt: Do you have Dispel Magic, Scanlan?
Sam: That would have been great. (laughter)
Matt: Sorry.
Marisha: I technically do, but fuck that.
Laura: You can float up to the ceiling and then attack from high.
Marisha: I did learn Dispel Magic, but--
Sam: Well, dispel your own shit.
Marisha: No! Figure it out! Make it work for yourselves, assholes. That was a 6th-level spell, god damn it.
Matt: Did you make yourself mist, as well?
Marisha: Yeah! It's ten people!
Matt: You can't cast a spell in mist form, either.
Marisha: We're all shit out of luck! How does that feel?
Matt: So who's left, currently? That finishes Vax's turn.
Liam: Everyone who's a cloud, we're floating back to Emon. Let's go.
Taliesin: (singing) I can show you the world.
Marisha: I thought we could still attack, which would be way dope.
Matt: That would be dope, but that would be way too powerful a spell for sixth level. This is more of a means of travel spell, or a means of escape spell.
Liam: Let's solve the problem
Laura: But half of the party is still not able to escape.
Marisha: If you don't move, they'll go away.
Matt: This creature, now, having been hit by the terrifying Eyebite spell, its insides churning and the impact from damage it's taken, it's looking like it had a harsh round last turn. As all of the movement suddenly (poof) vanishes and there's no general movement, the last thing it recalls that was in its vicinity and still shifting with a heartbeat across the ground is you, Scanlan. (impact noise) It bursts out of the ground right in front of you. It brings its jaw down over the top, with disadvantage. That's a natural 20, so thank god it has disadvantage. 19.
Sam: I'm going to use Cutting Words to try and not have it hit me.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I'll sing, (singing) do you really want to hurt me? Do you really want to bite my body? Okay, that taunts him.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and roll a d10 to reduce that from the attack.
Sam: A d10. this one? Wait, that's yours; why am I doing yours?
Matt: That's a 19 plus nine. This is 28 is what it rolled total.
Sam: 28 is what it rolled total?!
Matt: It rolled a 19 on the dice.
Sam: Oh fuck, even if I rolled a ten, I couldn't do anything. I rolled a three.
Matt: Okay, so as you're singing this, its jaw comes down on you (slamming sound), bites down painfully onto Scanlan for-- that's the wrong dice--
Taliesin: This could go worse.
Marisha: Shut up, Taliesin.
Matt: 19 points of piercing damage. And I need you to go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Sam: I'm great at those. Dexterity saving throw. Yeah, yeah, yeah, sure, sure, that's a five.
Matt: Those of you who are watching, you see as the mouth (impact sound) chomps down on Scanlan and as it pulls away, Scanlan is nowhere in sight, having been swallowed by the purple worm.
Taliesin: Oh, shit!
Matt: You are blinded and restrained, and yeah. You just see darkness and you feel the muscles constricting as you're forced down its throat. As your feet splash into what seems to be some sort of highly acidic liquid that resides in the inside of its body.
Sam: Tell me this, Dungeon Master. Earlier when I had done my Eyebite thing, I had my cone up here. When he grabbed me was the cone still close to my mouth?
Matt: Sure, we'll say that. However, I do need you to make a concentration check because of the damage you sustained on this.
Sam: Okay. Concentration check. Concentration? I've never rolled for concentration. Oh wait!
Matt: I know, I'm trying to keep up on that more now.
Sam: I have advantage on spell concentration.
Matt: Because of your feat that you took.
Sam: Well, that wasn't good either. So one was a five and one was a ten. Do I add anything to that?
Matt: All right so, it's a constitution saving throw and half the damage you took. So you're trying to beat a nine.
Sam: Constitution. So 12.
Matt: So 12. So yes, you succeed. So you currently, even though you're constrained, you're still maintaining your Eyebite spell against the purple worm.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: All right. So that ends the worm's turn. Scanlan, it is now your turn.
Sam: Great. I don't want be in here anymore.
Matt: Correct.
Sam: Can I look around? It's dark. It seems cozy. Seems nicer than outside right now, actually. I dip my finger in the acid. Ooo!
Matt: (sizzling sound) Not fun, not fun.
Sam: It's not good. So I'm going to make him barf me up.
Marisha: Oh that's right, it was sick, right?
Matt: It's sickened currently by the spell effect you put, yeah. SAM; I'm going to cast, at level five, Thunderwave. With my Hand Cone of Clarity up in my grill. I'm going to explode him from the inside.
Matt: All right, Thunderwave. So at fifth level, that would be an additional 4d8. That is 6d8 thunder damage.
Travis: Holy shit.
Sam: Where's the d8s?
Matt: It makes a constitution saving throw.
Travis: He's inside. Come on, Armageddon this motherfucker.
Matt: That is a 16 on the saving throw.
Sam: 19 is my save.
Matt: So, 6d8.
Sam: What's that? I've already lost count. 15 plus seven. Whatever that is.
Matt: 22 points of--
Sam: Wait 6d8, yeah okay.
Matt: Okay. It (impact sound) booms from the inside and you can see a central part of the worm (muffled boom) billow out like a cartoon as this bit of smoke emanates from its mouth. Just the sheer force of it forces you a little ways up its throat, but not enough to jettison yourself out of its body. Its muscles are too strong and you feel like you need to do a little more damage to it from the inside to be able to escape.
Sam: Okay. But it did hurt it, yes?
Matt: It hurt it, yeah. It took some damage. And at this point as well, you (grunt) feel your body being pulled inward and crushed by the muscles. Percy. You're up, Mr. Mistform.
Taliesin: Okay. These creatures have no eyes.
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: I'm made of smoke.
Matt: (affirmative sound)
Taliesin: (sighs) Okay.
Travis: Yes. Well established.
Taliesin: As long as we're all clear here what's going on, that's fine. And I can just dash?
Matt: That's all you can do. Or begin to try and revert, which will take ten rounds.
Taliesin: Well, and can I still move around and do things while I'm trying to revert or is it-- Reverting. Am I just stuck reverting?
Matt: You know, that's a good question.
Taliesin: Can I just make the decision?
Matt: I think you can still move around, you just think you have to have concentration towards it, I'll have to--
Taliesin: I'm going to have my concentration on reverting. But in the meantime, I'm going to--
Matt: You can use your action to begin to revert your form, yeah.
Taliesin: I have to use my action?
Matt: However, nope! Reverting takes a minute, during which time a creature is incapacitated and can't move.
Taliesin: (sputtering)
Matt: So yeah. So currently--
Marisha: Yeah he's really married to this one.
Matt: It took me ten seconds to read it!
Liam: So to get out of this form, we have to stop and like meditate in one position for a full minute. What does it dissipate without doing that? How long does it take?
Matt: Eight hours.
Liam: Eight hours, good.
Marisha: Wait, what? No, no, no! One-- Oh no, yeah, you're right.
Sam: Can't you just kill it? Wait a second, hold on a second.
Marisha: Yeah, can I not kill it at all? I can't kill it?
Matt: Not if you're in wind form, no.
Marisha: Question. Can I switch to an animal form?
Matt: You cannot take any other action aside from dash or reverting when in this form.
Taliesin: Can I dash into one of the creatures?
Marisha: Why would you do that?
Matt: I mean, you could try to. You would surround it with smoke.
Laura: You're made of wind!
Taliesin: It wouldn't know that I was there? It wouldn't--
Travis: You could either dispel it or you could flee.
Taliesin: Okay, well I had the thought of maybe I could attempt to get them to attack each other.
Matt: I mean, that can be attempted. How are you going to do that? No, you can't talk in this form. What are you trying to do?
Taliesin: I'm attempting to tap them to get them to think that there's something happening where the worms are to get them to attack.
Sam: Like a Three Stooges thing.
Matt: Okay, so you swirl this way as a dash and attempt to make an impact. I'll say go ahead and make a strength check.
Taliesin: Really?
Matt: Yes. With disadvantage and a serious penalty. Because you're mist. Go for it.
Taliesin: Natural 20, Motherfucker!
Matt: Okay, roll again, because it's with disadvantage.
Taliesin: (screams) (laughter)
Liam: Here comes the one.
Taliesin: Baby, I know we've been arguing a lot lately. But I want you to know I take it all back, I take it all back. I'm going to buy you something so nice. I'm going to buy you ice cream. I'm going to buy you good ice cream! I'm going to go to Scoops. Three, motherfucker. (laughter)
Taliesin: Which brings me to four.
Matt: All right. As the coldish mist of Percy batters itself helplessly and ineffective against the body of the giant frost worm creature, seeming to no effect as it's now keeping itself attentive on what is nearby and within its range of motion.
Taliesin: I will use an action surge and start turning back into a normal human then.
Matt: Well, you can continue to use your movement; you only moved a short bit.
Taliesin: Oh, I'm going to move behind it then. That way. No, I mean far away from it. And then I'm going to use an action surge and start meditating on it.
Matt: Okay, it does attempt to take an attack of opportunity as it just feels you rush by. Nah, it misses. Rolled a two.
Taliesin: That's what it feels like, motherfucker.
Matt: All right. So, that end your turn?
Taliesin: Yeah that ended it.
Matt: All right, Vex, you're up.
Laura: Cool.
Sam: Vex, you and me babe, all we got to do is last ten rounds. Of course, all you hear is (muffled cries).
Laura: I know, I've got to save you!
Taliesin: Trinket's there too.
Laura: I know.
Matt: Oh, I get to make the save to see if the Eyebite maintains itself. That would be a-- no, it rolled a ten and it's minus two on its wisdom save. So it still has disadvantage on its attacks.
Laura: Okay, all right. Are there any stalactites coming from the ceiling?
Matt: There are, actually. There's a number of them. Just in this general vicinity there's a whole mess of them up above from just the natural formation of it.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to shoot Conjure Barrage at the ceiling and try to create noise away from us.
Matt: Whereabouts?
Laura: How about towards the ceiling above the frost worm?
Matt: Over there? Okay. All right, so, okay. The frost worm is in the way to hit that angle, so you may have to move to do so.
Laura: Which way could I shoot that he would not be in the way?
Matt: You have to probably move this way to get around him just to hit him at this angle just because it's such a large entity.
Laura: Huh? God, I don't know. I mean.
Matt: What you got?
Laura: I'm going to move as quietly as I can around towards that little crevice.
Matt: Go ahead and make a general dexterity check.
Laura: Just add my dexterity to it? 17?
Matt: 17? Okay. As you move past, stepping as gingerly as you can, you can see it slap; it moves its face in the direction of where you're going, but you just manage to move beyond where it thought you were, and it misses you as you move by. So now you have visual on it.
Laura: Okay. Now I want to shoot Conjure Barrage at the ceiling above the frost one.
Matt: Okay. Conjure Barrage up here. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Okay. That is 3d8, I guess. 14 plus five. What's 14 plus five? 19.
Matt: 19 damage? All right. And with that, you release a blasting torrent of arrows at the ceiling in this giant cone blast. It strikes into the ceiling through the force of the magical bow that you're holding. You can see a number of rocks in bits and pieces begin to chip off, and a few small stalactites crack and plummet downward. I need a dex save from Grog and Keyleth.
Marisha: Dex save?
Matt: Dex save.
Liam: We still take damage in this form, right?
Matt: You do. You just take half damage from non-magical sources.
Marisha: Regular dexterity save or do we get advantage because we're misty?
Matt: You have resistance to non-magical weapons.
Marisha: Do we have advantage?
Matt: No. You take half damage because you're misty.
Marisha: I don't think I made my dexterity check.
Matt: What did you roll?
Marisha: A two.
Travis: I have advantage. Danger sense. Dexterity saving throws. Total of 20.
Matt: There you go. All right, so that is a total of seven damage to Keyleth, halved to four because you're in mist form. Seven damage to the frost worm.
Laura: Seven damage because of the stalactites?
Matt: Yep. They fell on it. Four damage to you.
Laura: I'm going to look over at Trinket, and I'm going to go--
Matt: Actually, no damage to you because you completely dodged out of the way.
Laura: I'm going to go like this to Trinket, and I'm going to shoot another arrow. I can't do the same thing. I'm going to shoot an arrow at the ceiling right above the frost thing, and then I'm going to use my bonus action to hide.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Okay. Oh, god. That didn't do any-- Well, I was hitting a stalactite, which is totally still, so it was 13?
Matt: 13? Because of your half-elf eyes, able to see in this dark interior of the cavern, I'd say yes, that hits. Barely.
Laura: So just a regular d8. Yep. 11.
Matt: 11 damage, all right. 11 damage. It falls. Yeah, it does not make its resistance to the fall, so the stalactite falls. Larger than the previous ones that were knocked out by the barrage that loosened it up. This one crumbles, slamming into the head of the frost worm for three points of bludgeoning damage. All right.
Laura: And then I stealth for 21 points of stealth.
Matt: Okay, good to know. All right. Ending your turn, it's now Pike. Pike, who currently is confused by the circumstances that have currently happened. She steps out. She's not mist. She steps out.
Laura: Why would you do that?! Why would you do that? You're going to kill her.
Travis: She would know better than that!
Laura: She would hide!
Liam: She could be our saving grace. Let the man--
Sam: She's the only one who's got arms and legs right now.
Matt: Keyleth left the alcove after saying stay still, she saw a few individuals turn to mist on the outside. She's very worried and confused by the circumstances.
Laura: I'm sorry, I didn't shoot an arrow. I just realized I didn't shoot an arrow at his worm and I meant to, and I'm sorry.
Sam: What worm? My worm?
Laura: The one that you're in.
Sam: You could have hit me! It's okay. Don't worry.
Matt: Pike comes around the corner. "Guys? What's happening?" And all she sees is you disappear into the shadows on the side, Trinket being very quiet, and mist swirling in the space around as these two giant worms (growls) as parts of the cavern are collapsing into it.
Laura: Can I do that to her?
Matt: She doesn't see you do it because you're hidden. No, she doesn't see you. She doesn't roll high enough perception. Right now, she feels alone and doesn't understand what she can possibly do in this. She doesn't have any indication of what to do in the circumstance, so she is going to--
Travis: Does Pike have Dispel Magic?
Matt: She does.
Sam: She doesn't even know--
Matt: She doesn't know what's happening. She's going to cast Flame Strike, 5th-level spell. It's a ten-foot radius. She's going to blast this one right here, which is the one she sees now closest to her proximity and being ice-based. So that's 8d6 radiant damage.
Sam: Hey! Nice job, Pike!
Matt: 32 points of fire damage. Does not make its save. Suddenly from the ground, you see the rocks shake and lift for a second before a beam of divine fire (explosion) comes bursting out of the ground in a ten-foot radius around this worm. However, I do need a dexterity saving throw from both Grog and Keyleth.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: Keep your head in the game!
Travis: 18.
Marisha: What? Shut up, Liam.
Liam: Get it. Get it, girl, get it.
Marisha: 16.
Matt: 16? So that's going to be 32 damage to that. That's going to be 16 damage to you, Grog, and 32 damage to you, Keyleth.
Marisha: All right, 32.
Matt: Fire and radiant damage. As she just sees mist in the air around the frost worm and has no indication of exactly what happened. However, the frost worm did take it as well. That's going to end her turn as she isn't quite sure what to do at that point. That brings us to the top of the round, Grog.
Travis: What do I--? I can't leave.
Laura: Just back away from it.
Travis: I'll just back up to the tunnel leading out of the-- yeah.
Matt: Okay. All right, that brings us to--
Travis: Oh, and I'd like to start to revert, if I could.
Matt: Okay. You'll be there for a minute doing so. You can't move any further. You can't move, you're just sitting there focusing on-- incapacitated.
Travis: No, I don't start to revert.
Matt: Okay. All right, that completes your turn. Now we come to the frost worm's turn. The frost worm, first and foremost, it gets its frost breath back. It turns this way, burrows underneath, and, seeing all the movement to this side, goes ahead and unleashes a secondary frost breath in this direction. That will only affect the purple worm and Vax. I need you guys to make constitution saving throws.
Liam: And I can't remember, Evasion has nothing to do with this?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: Okay, I'm going to use Luck. My last Luck. That's not good. So constitution save?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: Seven.
Matt: Seven? Nope. Purple worm also does not make it, so that'll be to both of you...
Laura: So obviously these worms don't even care about each other at all.
Matt: No. Seemingly, in this moment you see now, there is not a kinship between them. If anything, they both arrived due to feeling the same movement and one is currently now attacking whatever is large and in the area that it doesn't recognise the center movement of.
Marisha: Does that mean we could just get them fighting each other?
Laura: That is what I'm thinking, we could get them to fight.
Matt: 36 points of cold damage to you. 36 points to the purple worm.
Sam: That halved?
Matt: No, it is magical damage, not blunt damage, so you just take it. Especially as mist, cold is bad as mist. All right, so with that, the purple--
Sam: Wait. Doesn't my worm take it too?
Matt: He did. Both of them are still there.
Sam: Still alive?
Matt: Yeah. Looking a little rough, but it's still alive. All right, that ends its turn. Now it's Keyleth's turn.
Marisha: Okay, here's my question.
Matt: Yep?
Travis: Probably no.
Marisha: I know. (laughter)
Sam: Can I juggle while I'm a mist?
Matt: If you wanted to, because it is your spell that you cast, even though it's technically not concentration--
Marisha: I will say, we all failed in reading it, also--
Sam: Don't do this, don't do this!
Taliesin: (laughs) Can't win.
Laura: It's also what? What does it say?
Marisha: Nothing.
Taliesin: I'll say it if it makes you feel better?
Liam: Why don't we let him say what he was going to say?
Matt: What were you going to say?
Marisha: Nothing.
Matt: No, what's up?
Marisha: I'm afraid now.
Taliesin: As you should be. You're defying god.
Sam: What were you going to say, Matt?
Marisha: Yeah, what were you going to say? (laughs) I like that question.
Laura: Yeah, right? Since you cast it, you could break your concentration?
Matt: I'm saying, because you cast a spell that wasn't a concentration spell, if it was a positive effect, which it technically is, and you did not want it, you could cancel the spell. I'd let you do that. If you wanted to. What did I not read?
Marisha: We all failed in reading it.
Taliesin: Casting time.
Matt: One action.
Taliesin: No.
Taliesin: One minute.
Marisha: One minute.
Matt: It says one action on my thing.
Marisha: It says one action on yours? It says one minute on mine.
Matt: Does it?
Marisha: Yes, it does.
Matt: Thank you, Fight Club Five.
Marisha: No, it's different. It says casting time one minute.
Matt: Let's see what the Player's Handbook says.
Taliesin: Consult the book.
Laura: It doesn't matter, it already happened.
Marisha: It already happened, so it doesn't matter.
Travis: Shouldn't there be an ad for Gilmore's Glorious Goods right about now?
Marisha: Yeah, it's already happened, we're already committed.
Matt: In the Player's Handbook, Wind Walk is one minute, you're right.
Marisha: One minute. So Fight Club failed.
Matt: Fight Club Five failed.
Sam: This is a reverse ad for Fight Club Five.
Matt: Or I have to update it. Either way. No, It might have been fixed since, I've just got to update it. All right. Well, anyway. In a bit of druidic inspiration, you manage to, very quickly, for the first time--
Marisha: I mean, I'm still willing to commit to it. It's fine.
Matt: Being as an Air Ashari, this is your realm of expertise, and your first time using it, you were so excited that you managed to accelerate the casting of the spell, regardless of the situation it may have created, so, what do you want to do?
Marisha: So I accelerated the casting of the spell.
Laura: So you can cancel it if you feel like canceling it.
Sam: If you want to.
Laura: Some people's brothers in the room are at a really low health level right now. I don't know who we're talking about, but some people's brothers--
Marisha: Are you giving me an out because you feel bad? Because if you're giving me an out--
Matt: No, because technically it shouldn't have happened, because it was a one-minute casting time. There are many things in that spell that were not read, by the caster, so I'm giving you the opportunity to correct the mistake, if you wish not to take it, you can.
Taliesin: I read the card too, I didn't see it.
Marisha: He did read the card too, and we all thought it was a good idea.
Matt: This was a very hard and valuable lesson for casters.
Laura: We're in the middle of a battle.
Marisha: (laughing) For my own shame. All right fine, I'll drop the spell 'cause I feel really bad about it. But on my way down, okay, here's my question, because I want to make these fuckers fight each other. So, is there loose rock along the edge of the wall?
Laura: I dropped stalactites on them. So yeah, there's lots of loose rock.
Matt: Yeah. And there's rubble on the ground next to it from where the original cave-in happened
Marisha: Okay, so as I'm dropping the spell--
Matt: All of you who are mist form now revert, and you fall about five to ten feet and catch yourself on the ground, no harm no foul.
Marisha: As I revert back can I slide down that wall to create some--
Matt: Did you want to move first over here to do it?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: So you shift over, you drop the spell.
Marisha: Uh-huh, I drop the spell, and as I drop the spell I want to grab some wall and bring it down to make a big vibration, right in between these two motherfuckers.
Matt: Okay. Make a strength check.
Marisha: Oh, jeez Louise. Oh, that's not too bad. It's not a saving throw.
Matt: Correct. Just a strength check; add your strength modifier.
Marisha: 18?
Matt: 18. All right. So, as you slide down, you grab onto some of the loose rock and (rockslide) they come tumbling down as you slide down. So you land here, at the base of the two worms, and rocks tumble around you at the base of the cave-in. And you get the sensation that you may have made a decent bit of racket right around your feet.
Marisha: Uh-huh. Do I have any movement?
Matt: I'd say you have half your movement.
Marisha: Oh, Jesus Christ. Can I just tiptoe backwards towards Percy? Or should I-- You know what? I'm going to stay. I'm just going to stay right there. Is that even worse of a decision?
Matt: I don't know. What do you want to do?
Marisha: I'm just going to-- up against the wall. And not move.
Matt: Okay. You're going to Doctor Grant this.
Marisha: I'm going to Doctor Grant it.
Matt: Got it. Okay. Keyleth, that ends your turn, Vax, you're up. You now have your physical form again.
Liam: Okay. I look around really fast, run up to my sister, give her a giant hug, and (magic sound) Dimension Door over to where Grog is.
Sam: You can Dimension Door; I keep forgetting that!
Matt: So as you rush over and grab onto her, you both (poof!) in a Nightcrawler-esque poof of smoke, as it settles, you are both no longer there, as-- What's the range on the Dimension Door?
Liam: Oh, it's so far, it's like 500 feet I believe. I'll find it.
Matt: I believe it is. Dimension Door, yeah, it's fine. 300 feet, you're fine. You guys appear over by Grog now.
Laura: Is that the edge of a cliff over on that side?
Matt: It goes right to the edge, right there, and this is where it would go down the side of a giant, icy mountain. You guys are at the very, very top of a very cold, cragulous part of the Cliffkeep Mountains.
Laura: Got it.
Liam: I'm hasted; do I have one or two attacks at this point?
Matt: You have one attack right now.
Liam: One attack? Okay.
Matt: You went up and did your action already.
Liam: Action. Okay. Well then, I'm going to throw a dagger at the back of the frost one.
Matt: Okay. What's the range on your dagger?
Liam: It's 60 feet, Sharpshooter, no disadvantage.
Matt: 60 feet. Just misses. You go (knife sound) and it just tumbles, scrapes across the ground, stops at the base of the worm, and then vanishes. All right, that ends your turn. Now it is this guy's turn. At the top of his turn, Scanlan, you-- all right.
Sam: I'm in a nice womb.
Matt: You take...
Travis: Uh-oh.
Taliesin: All the damage.
Travis: He grimaced. Still rolling.
Matt: 23 points of acid damage as it begins to digest you from the inside.
Sam: Aren't I immune to acid damage?
Matt: Are you?
Sam: Because of the feast?
Matt: No, poison.
Sam: Isn't that the same thing?
Matt: No. (laughter)
Matt: All right. So. The--
Laura: Somebody's got something of Acid Resistance, though. Somebody has an item.
Liam: I had armor and I gave it to someone, I don't have it anymore.
Matt: As the frost worm and the purple worm are now clashing in this space, they both turn, hearing the sound. Now, the frost damage that had impacted the purple worm last turn, let's see if it-- Nope! It's going to retaliate for that, it's going to attempt to make a bite attack against the frost worm. That is going to be a 12, that is going to miss. However, hearing the noise, it's going to make a tail attack at the direction that Keyleth is-- That's a natural one. As it arcs through, it (impact) right next to your head and then pulls out of the rubble. The rock to your left is now cracked and broken with a giant hole where the stinger had placed itself.
Marisha: I hold my breath.
Matt: Yeah. Disadvantage on those attacks from that Eyebite is really bad. So that's been very helpful from Scanlan's point. By the way, Scanlan, make another concentration check because of the--
Sam: Concentration check. Yeah. Yeah, I'm okay. 18 and 19.
Matt: Yeah, you're fine. Okay. That ends the purple worm's turn, it's going to stay right there. Actually, no. It's going to burrow away, as currently it's made its attacks. It's going to burrow into the ground, and is currently not within anyone's visual range.
Laura: I have it Hunter's Marked, can I feel it?
Matt: You can sense that it's underneath the ground, somewhere in this cavern.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: That brings us to Scanlan.
Sam: It's going down.
Matt: It's going through the ground, you feel it moving around.
Taliesin: Shake it, shake it, shake it.
Sam: So it has poison, right? It's poisoned me-- Oh, it has acid.
Matt: Yeah. It's acid. You're feeling yourself digest within its body.
Sam: Can I make an intelligence check to see if I know anything about these creatures?
Matt: You can if you'd like to, from the inside of its body, yeah, go ahead.
Sam: Is that my action? No, it's...
Matt: No, no, no, I'll let you do it because you've been very close and personal with it.
Taliesin: You've had a lot of time to think.
Sam: Specifically what I'm trying to remember from my encounters in the past is if it has any resistance to poison damage.
Matt: Go for it.
Sam: What am I doing? Intelligence?
Matt: Intelligence. Add your intelligence modifier.
Sam: 16. 16.
Matt: 16, okay. You've heard of these types of entities before. You're uncertain whether or not it has a resistance to poison, per se. You get the sensation probably, based on the fact that it uses poison, you would think so, but nothing else about its body seems to be poison-related or of the essence of poison.
Sam: But it does use poison?
Matt: As part of its tail. The stinger you saw it use earlier does seem to have some--
Sam: Oh, gotcha. Okay, so it probably does have poison resistance. Okay.
Matt: You don't know. But you do know, also, that if you were able to probably do enough damage from the inside, it would probably throw you back up. You also get the sense that since you're currently underground, now would be a bad time to do that.
Sam: Well, I'm in a tunnel, right?
Matt: As far as you know, yeah.
Laura: There could be other worms around.
Sam: He disappeared down-- well, I don't know anything! Okay, all right, I can feel him moving, so I don't know where I am anymore. So I don't want to Dimension Door out, because I don't know where I'd end up. So instead I will cast Stinking Cloud inside-- No, no, no! No. No, no. Cancel! Belay that order! Shit! Because I think he's immune to poison, so I'm not going to do that. I'm going to-- Fuck! There's nothing I can do!
Laura: Can you take a healing potion in case he starts to digest you some more?
Sam: (strained) I'm like this right now. I can't do anything.
Laura: Can you go like that, and get a healing potion and (mumbled) go like that?
Sam: I am My Left Foot. Yeah, I can't reach a wand. I don't want to get rid of--
Matt: You could Dimension Door, in theory.
Sam: But I don't know where I'd end up?
Matt: As part of the spell you can either visualize a place you can see, or one you can describe by stating distance and direction. So you've already been inside the room, you know what it looks like, so if you think you're somewhat close by--
Sam: So even if I've moved since I saw it last, I can still Dimension Door to where I think--?
Matt: In theory, yeah.
Sam: Okay, then I will do that. I will do that.
Matt: Okay. Where do you want to appear within the room?
Sam: I want to appear where Vex was before.
Matt: Okay. So, you--
Laura: No, I was further over.
Matt: He didn't see that. Last thing he saw was you were right next to him before he got eaten. So you disappear from the inside of its stomach and appear in a puff of smoke.
Sam: Goo! Goo all over me! Ew! Oh, and then I see-- I've seen the other worm before, right?
Matt: Briefly, before you were swallowed, yes.
Sam: And I get my bearings, and I can see Pike, I can see Trinket.
Marisha: You also see me against a wall right next to you.
Sam: So I will shake it off, I will inspire Keyleth and say, (singing) I only want to see you slicing up that purple worm!
All: (singing) Purple worm! Purple worm!
Sam: Ooh! Okay, that's good.
Matt: d10 inspiration die to you, Keyleth.
Marisha: I love that song!
Matt: Ends your turn, Scanlan. Percy, you're up. You just caught yourself on the ground on the far end, by the tunnel.
Taliesin: I want to hold my turn until the other worm returns.
Matt: Hold your action, you mean? So you want to move anywhere or are you going to stay where you are?
Taliesin: Not going to move anywhere, just going to stay right there.
Matt: All right. Cool. That ends Percy's turn as he's holding his action until it returns. Vex, you're up.
Laura: I'm going to shoot from my Blazing Bowstring at the icy worm.
Matt: That's your second and final use this day.
Laura: Yeah, I know. 17?
Matt: 17 unfortunately misses. Your flaming arrow streaks off the darkness of the cavern and just passes it before it slams against the far cave wall.
Laura: Balls, balls, balls! So I'm going to shoot-- Nope, not going to do that. I'm going to shoot a regular old arrow at him!
Matt: Do it! Hey, those are still helpful.
Laura: And it doesn't do anything. It goes right past him, and hits the wall, and he looks towards the wall.
Matt: An arrow isn't a very hefty thing when it's by itself hitting stonework. It makes a noise, you can barely make out, we'll see if it's enough to distract it. Are you going to stay where you are?
Laura: Oh, I could have used my inspiration. I should have used it on the Blazing Bowstring one.
Sam: Hey man, whatever.
Matt: What are you going to do? Are you going to move? Do you want Trinket to move? Are you going to stay where you are?
Laura: Everybody's staying!
Matt: Okay, gotcha. All right, Pike, now, seeing everyone revert, and seeing this kind of awkward situation of these creatures moving about is going to-- Yeah, and-- She can't see you because you're on the other side of the wall.
Laura: Can I use my bonus action to hide?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: I do that!
Matt: I would recommend moving to one side of the cavern or the other, because right now you're still out in the open. It's kind of hard to hide if you have nowhere to hide. But you also get the feeling that these creatures-- being visually hidden is not affecting it at all.
Laura: Doesn't matter? Then I don't do anything!
Matt: All right. So you stay still. Pike stands still, figuring that it was helpful last time but feeling bad for accidentally-- now seeing the mist reverting to her friends-- that she blasted them on the previous round. Let's see. She didn't realized in the moment that you guys turned into mist while she was in the corner.
Travis: It's all right. I've had worse.
Matt: I'm pretty sure she has another 5th-level spell, and this would be the last of them. She's going to go ahead and Flame Strike again on the frost worm. This time centering it around there, so the ten-foot radius only hits the worm and doesn't see any allies nearby. So that will be 8d6. 33 points of damage.
Laura: Go, Pike!
Matt: Natural 20 on the save, though, so it takes half the damage.
Laura: Damn you! Dick.
Matt: 17 points to the frost worm. All right, Pike casts that and then stays perfectly still in space, she still has some motion and some speech to it, but her feet are planted firmly on the ground. Hopefully that's enough. And that finishes her turn. Back to the top: Grog.
Travis: Did you hold your action?
Taliesin: I held my action
Travis: Until when?
Taliesin: Until the other worm returns.
Travis: I'll do the same thing.
Matt: Okay. The frost worm, it's now its turn. It does not get its frost breath. However--
Taliesin: There's a rock slide to its right.
Matt: It is! There is a rock slide. That Keyleth is standing in. Thank you for the reminder.
Taliesin: Damn it! Sorry.
Marisha: Thanks for that.
Matt: It's going to turn around. You can see now, its tail emerges, and it's going to arc up and try and bite and slam in your direction with both sides of its body at once. This tail does not have a stinger on it, but it is still a giant bludgeoning implement. First attack is going to be a 19 to hit?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Next one is going to be a 16 to hit.
Marisha: No.
Matt: All right, so the tail slams on the ground next to you, estimating your position and failing and just hitting the rocks that you had slid down. However, it does bite down with its open, icy jaws. You take 17 points of piercing damage, as well as an additional six points of cold damage.
Marisha: Bringing it to a total of 22?
Matt: 22, yeah.
Taliesin: Sorry.
Marisha: I deserved that.
Taliesin: We live in a cold, cold world. No one deserves anything.
Matt: Let's see if it makes any sort of perception check. Okay, cool. That ends its turn. It's now Keyleth's turn.
Marisha: So does it know that I'm there since it just took a big chunk out of me?
Matt: It senses that it impacted something and something that reacted and tasted like it had been bitten, so you get the sense that it knows you're there.
Marisha: All right. I'm in arm's length of it, right?
Matt: You are.
Marisha: I'm going to reach out and cast Blight on it.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: You touch me when you're trying to touch the worm. I don't know how--
Matt: Cast Blight on Taliesin! All right. Constitution saving throw. What's the DC on that?
Marisha: 18.
Matt: 18. It does not make it. 16. So 8d8 necrotic damage to it.
Sam: Necrotic damage? Best kind.
Marisha: Oh, jeez. What was that? Seven. Seven plus five. Seven, eight, 13, 16, and then another 12. Where was I at? 18. Oh, so 28, 32, 33 points.
Matt: 33 points of necrotic damage to the frost worm. As you reach out with your hand and grasp it, you can see now its icy white exterior all of a sudden shudders in place and you can see small cracks of black veins begin to spring out from your hands into its body. Its frozen breath all of a sudden thaws briefly into a dripping drool as it is stunned momentarily, and it pulls away, wrestling itself from your grasp. It did not enjoy that at all. So that's your action.
Marisha: I'm going to once again not move. Can I go ahead and cast Healing Word on myself?
Matt: As a bonus action? I don't see why not.
Marisha: Nine, total. That does help.
Matt: That ends your turn, Keyleth. Vax, you're up.
Liam: All right. I want to see if I can use the haste to do double distance to get behind Pike in that little alcove. If I can't go that far, I'll use dash to get behind her.
Matt: You could. You can get behind her.
Liam: Without the dash?
Matt: Yeah, because of your haste, you can move 60 feet.
Liam: I'm standing right behind her and I say, Pike, I'm a little banged up. Dagger, dagger, dagger.
Matt: Okay, go for it. It is just-- or no, it's within 30 feet.
Liam: 17 for the first. 21 for the second.
Matt: Hits, hits.
Liam: 18 for the third.
Matt: All three hit.
Laura: Is it sneak attack because Keyleth's standing right next to it?
Liam: All right, so first one is four. This is doubled, so that's 15 plus... 16, 21, 25, 28, 36 for the first.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Second one is nine, and the third one is ten.
Taliesin: Damn.
Matt: All right, as your barrage of blades (spinning noises) go spinning right over Pike's head, she feels the actual wind distortion (puff) past her hair, sending strands kind of wafting in front of her face as she just stays perfectly still, trusting you. The blades all (impacts) sinking into it, one of which strikes an area of the side of its body armor where the plates on the armor had seemed to be cracked from the blackened veins from her Blight spell. As it does, the dagger doesn't even stop and plunges directly into its body, and you can see a gout of dark, deep red blood just (spurt) out from the wound. It (screeches) shakes in place from the impact, the pain, it's starting to look a little harsh.
Liam: Done.
Matt: All right, ends your turn! That brings us to the purple worm.
Laura: (singing) Purple worm.
Laura: (singing) Purple worm.
Marisha: (singing) Purple worm.
Matt: Purple worm is going to now emerge from the impact--
Marisha: Come on, fight the big cocksucker.
Matt: It's going to burst out from the ground where you and Pike are as the last motion that it felt was you rushing over across the ground. (boom) It comes tearing through, making its bite attack against you and its tail attack against you as well, because of Pike not moving.
Liam: Question!
Matt: Yes?
Liam: Pike probably doesn't, but do I have any advantage being that I'm in this little closed-in bubble?
Matt: Technically, no, because it has reach. And it just kinda swerves around the inside and it knows this cavern pretty well as it's been through here a few times. So. That's going to be a 23 to hit on you?
Liam: Of course that hits.
Matt: For the bite attack.
Sam: Even with its disadvantage?
Matt: Oh, with the disadvantage-- sorry, the second roll-- thank you for reminding me there. It would have been a 13 on the second one plus nine, that would be 20.
Liam: Still hits! Uncanny Dodge please! To halve the damage.
Matt: To halve the damage? Yeah, you can do that on this one. But first then there's the bite. I will do that now. That is 21 points of piercing damage?
Liam: Unconscious.
Matt: With it halved?
Liam: 21 halved?
Matt: 21 halved would put you at 11.
Liam: Oh, yeah. Okay, no, I'm still on my feet.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: (dazed mumbling)
Matt: The tail stinger's going to swing at you with disadvantage. That is 14. Rolled a six and a five. So, as the bite clamps down at you its tail tries to strike at you but misses entirely. However, its jaws attempt to close around you, I need you to go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Liam: Hold on. 16.
Matt: 16. As you try and move out of the way, it's not quite fast enough as darkness takes you, the mouth (slam shut sound) clamps around you, (gulp noise) and you are swallowed.
Laura: You didn't even get healed! (panicked gasp)
Liam: Still conscious.
Matt: That ends its turn. Now having it appeared, as this round has happened, I would like both Grog and Percy to--
Taliesin: I'm going to shoot the purple thing with a violent shot.
Matt: How many points into it?
Taliesin: I'm going to drop all three points into violent shot.
Matt: Okay! That adds plus six to your misfire. So you have like a 46% chance of misfiring on this shot.
Taliesin: If I roll a six. A six or lower. It--
Matt: Well, it adds plus two to your misfire per point spent.
Taliesin: Oh! Never mind then! Oh shit! Then never mind. Then I'm just going to take two points of violent shot. So that's--
Matt: So that would bring it to a misfire of seven.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Okay! So take your shot.
Marisha: You misfire on a seven or lower?
Taliesin: Yep.
Marisha: Holy shit, Taliesin!
Matt: But if he hits it's two additional dice damage to it.
Marisha: Come on, Golden Snitch!
Taliesin: Seven.
Matt: You rolled a seven?
Taliesin: I rolled a seven.
Matt: As you rear back, get ready to fire, all of a sudden, you pull the trigger and the way that you had customized the barrel to blast additional black powder blows up in your face and the gun actually bends out of the way and you feel the impact--
Taliesin: Wait! I get to reroll something, don't I? Where is it? Where is it? Aw. Do I get a reroll? Yeah. One save reroll per---
Matt: That's a saving throw reroll, that's not an attack, unfortunately. Yeah, the weapon misfires, doesn't do damage to you but the blast does not take off. You would have to repair the Bad News to use it again.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to pull out my new gun and take two shots.
Matt: Okay, so you drop Bad News, take two shots. Go for it.
Taliesin: God damn it. (sighs)
Travis: Come on, Percy!
Taliesin: That hits! That's a 21.
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: I'm just going to roll the other one, too. And that's a 30, that hits. So that's, plus 12. Eight, 15, 25. That's 27 points of damage.
Sam: Lot of things going on in Matt Mercer's head right now.
Matt: All right. How do you want to do this?
Marisha: Thank god! Such an asshole.
Taliesin: Bad News is down, I toss it to the ground, I pull out the new one. I take my shot just to get its attention to get one in the mouth.
Matt: Okay, as you take one shot (gunshot noise) it blast the side of the wall, its head turns towards you, seeing the sudden movement, and as you do you aim up, aiming for the back of its head. You fire. This time the bullet strikes true, right into the back of its throat. You can see now (explosion noise) the blowout which is a small hole in the back of its throat, you can see the cavern behind it and a little bit of light that is peeking through. It (groans) and just (impact) falls across the ground here. The Eyebite spell no longer effective but it is, currently, still there, holding the area.
Liam: (muffled) I'm still in here.
Matt: Yep, you feel it (impact) collapse on the ground and it's not moving and the muscles go lax around you.
Laura: That's good, so you can move a little bit.
Matt: It's now Grog's turn.
Travis: I can't go get him, though, 'cause the other dick lord is still on the map.
Liam: (muffled) I'm in acid in here.
Travis: I can't get to him. I'll run up to the dead earthworm and try and cut Vax out of his stupid stomach. With Craven Edge.
Matt: As you rush up, leaping onto the body of the now-deceased purple worm, you bring the blade up and begin carving through. Go ahead and I'll say you manage to, over the course of this round, you don't have to roll for it. You just begin to tear through it with the blade repeatedly, gashing it open until eventually you can feel the blows from the outside.
Travis: Did I just help midwife Vax out of this thing?
Matt: Just a moment. I would like you to go ahead and make an attack roll with disadvantage.
Laura: An attack.
Travis: 20.
Liam: Hits!
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll damage.
Liam: I mean, I'm unconscious.
Marisha: You're unconscious?
Laura: Well, he will be once he takes his damage.
Travis: 17.
Liam: Unconscious--
Matt: 17, so, as you strike through you feel yourself hit something else within the purple worm, and as the wound opens up, you can see Vax's bleeding, unconscious form slip out of the purple worm's body, onto the ground of the icy cavern.
Travis: Ew.
Laura: You just killed my brother.
Liam: I'm unconscious.
Matt: All right, that ends your turn?
Travis: It was only one-- it was a couple of strikes to get him out, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah, that ends it.
Matt: All right. (laughter)
Sam: Killed Vax.
Matt: That was your saved attack. Now, finishing that turn, Scanlan, you are up.
Sam: Ah, me? oh. Hello, hello. (laughs) I will kill it with fire. Well, let's see, can I see Vax over there in the worm juice?
Matt: No, not from your position. As far as you know, he's still been swallowed.
Sam: Then I'll kill it with fire. I will use my Wand of Fireballs to blast balls at it.
Taliesin: Your balls of fire wand.
Sam: My balls of fire, and I won't hit Key, will I?
Matt: Currently, if you aim it properly. It's a big radial spell.
Laura: Oh no, it's going to get Keyleth.
Sam: Oh, it's that radius!
Matt: Yes. You could aim it in such a way--
Sam: Forget it, I'll just do Lightning Bolt instead.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: That's a huge radius.
Matt: Fireball's a powerful, dangerous spell, if things are in close quarters, but against mass amounts of enemies, it's brilliant.
Sam: So I take two steps to my right, so no one else is in the line and I will lightning it instead.
Matt: All right. Go for it, go ahead and roll damage.
Sam: 8d6, yeah?
Matt: Yep, that is an 11 on its dexterity saving throw. Full damage.
Sam: 31.
Matt: 31 points of lightning damage to it. All righty! As you step to the side, releasing the bolt of lighting energy, it blasts into the front of its face. You can see one of its jaw mandibles gets torn off from part of the impact, you can see now the deep red blood begin to pool on the side of its face and drip down as it looks over, whipping its head in your direction.
Sam: (whimpers) Do I still have any movement?
Matt: Yeah, you only moved ten feet, so you still have 15 more feet.
Sam: I'm going to try to shuffle back into the tunnel there a little bit. And for my bonus, I'll Healing Word myself.
Matt: Go for it.
Sam: Okay, what is that, d4? Great, yeah, six points. Awesome.
Matt: All right, that finishes Scanlan's turn. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm going to take another shot at the big icy worm.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm just going to take two normal, everyday shots because things have been weird. It's got to be close to death now. That's 17.
Matt: 17 just barely hits.
Taliesin: And 24.
Matt: Okay, both hit.
Laura: Get it, Percy!
Matt: Your pistol now needs to be reloaded.
Taliesin: Yes. Well, that's my third-- Third attack is to reload. I keep track, I'm good. 21 points of damage.
Matt: Good. (gun firing twice) Both shots go off, (click) the third one kind of clicking. You go to reload, you can see both blast across the front of its body, leaving little reddish dots on its midsection as each bullet sinks into it. It's still standing, still writhing about. You can see it's bleeding from many different wounds and it's not looking too great, but it's still standing. Stay where you are or you going to--?
Taliesin: Oh yeah, I'm staying where I am.
Matt: All right, Vex, you're up.
Laura: I'm going to Hunter's Mark him.
Matt: All righty!
Laura: And I'm going to shoot two arrows at him. Because what else am I going to do? Oh, Pike can help you.
Travis: He's unconscious; don't listen to that piece of shit.
Laura: I can't tell what happened; Grog went to save you.
Liam: Huh? Oh, yeah.
Laura: 29 on the first hit.
Matt: 29 hits.
Laura: And 27 on the second hit.
Matt: Both hit.
Laura: Okay. 20 on the first hit.
Matt: Nice.
Laura: 18 on the second hit.
Matt: Got it. Both arrows (impacts) sticking into its side, you can now see multitudes of the shafts sticking out. It's still standing. It's a hardy, hardy creature. You want to move or you want to stay where you are?
Laura: I'm going to stay where I am.
Matt: Okay. That's all right, ends your turn. Trinket's still sitting there wanting to help, but not able to do anything. All right.
Sam: So you mean, Trinket is doing what Trinket always--
Laura: Shut up! (laughter)
Matt: Pike screams out, "Vax!" and runs up the body, climbs up to the top and jumps off, landing next to your unconscious self. Reaches down and is going to use her one 6th-level spell, Heal.
Marisha: Ooh!
Matt: So you immediately regain 70 hit points.
Laura: Whoa!
Travis: It's like Pulp Fiction with the adrenaline shot.
Matt: Clerics, man! You come to consciousness, taking the deep breath-- The cold air from the cavern that you inhale stings your lungs, and you look over and Pike's there before you, eyes wide. Goes from a serious frown and a worried, furrowed brow to a big smile as you come back to consciousness. "Vax!" as she goes and hugs you.
Liam: And I clap my hand here and I leave a big, gory, slimy smear right on the half of her face. Thank you, Pike.
Matt: So you're back up, that finishes her round. Grog, you're up.
Travis: We are still hungry! And I rush up to giant dick smear.
Matt: Leaping over-- (grunt, running sounds)
Travis: And I would like to use reckless attack on my first of all three great weapon master.
Matt: Okay. You can use them all. All of them are affected now.
Travis: Let's do that.
Matt: All right! So, advantage on all of your attacks.
Travis: That's a 23.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: Oh, Jesus. What's 29 minus five? 24.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: That probably--
Laura: That hits, too.
Travis: Yeah. I've got to do the math. 22.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: Okay. 12. 20, plus ten, 30 for the first one. Eight. 13. 21, 31 for the second one.
Laura: Grog, you've never been so hot!
Travis: Three, eight, 16, 26 for the third one.
Matt: 26. How do you want to do this?
Travis: I'd like to take Craven Edge and jump up, straight up, as high as I can and drive it straight into the top of its cavity and just drag it down and open it up like a beautiful bouquet.
Matt: As you see Grog staple himself to the top of this now-standing, 20-25 foot tall creature, he, using his barbarian strength to leap up on the top, sinking the blade into the back of its head. Immediately it rears back, its whole back arching. As it does so, you just use the heft of your weight, grinning as you drive the blade down the entirety of its body. As you grind down to the surface, you can see its armored back just pop open, like a freshly cooked sausage-- just the insides spill out onto the ground. By the time Grog reaches the ground, you are coated in thick, thick crimson. Strangely enough, even though the blood is liquid, you feel almost like this crystalline force, like there are actually ice crystals within the blood stream itself from the cold that emanates from its body--
Travis: Like Icy Hot.
Matt: Yes! And as you land and hit the ground, its body slaps forward, barely missing Keyleth as it wet hits the ground. Almost like a shrimp that had its entire back torn open. It's just in two pieces face down on the ground. Right there.
Marisha: Good work, Grog.
Travis: I want more. Who's next?
Liam: Shh!
Laura: Calm down, Grog! Calm your tits, Grog!
Travis: Can I look in the blade and go  that was good, wasn't it?
Matt: "You did good, my friend. Very, very good."
Marisha: Hi, Grog.
Sam: Who you talking to, Grog?
Travis: That was good, wasn't it?
Marisha: It was very good, yeah! You did good!
Travis: Well, fucking answer me next time, Jesus!
Sam: Sorry!
Liam: I speak quietly into the earring and say could everybody shut the fuck up, please, and can we get out of here? Quietly?
Laura: No! There's gold! There's lots of gold on the other side!
Liam: Yeah, let's call another two worms, let's do that.
Sam: These are probably the only ones! It's a male and a female!
Marisha: How do you know that!?
Liam: They fucking hated each other. They hated each other!
Marisha: Yeah! They were trying to kill each other!
Sam: Yeah! They were married! They're a married couple! They hate each other!
Marisha: Scanlan, that's only your relationships!
Laura: Scanlan, you're right there. Get as much gold as you can and Dimension Door over to the teleporter.
Sam: I'm here? What?
Laura: You're right by the gold!
Sam: Oh you mean, I'm going to get the gold?!
Laura: Get the gold and Dimension Door!
Sam: I don't have a Bag of Holding! I weigh 14 pounds! I can't hold that much gold! Gold is heavy!
Travis: I can get over there. Do we want gold?
Sam: Yes, we want fucking gold! Wait, isn't there gold all over the place?
Matt: It's like smatterings of single pieces across the floor, but this one tunnel, the hoard itself is pouring into the tunnel left behind.
Laura: I need it!
Taliesin: Go grab the gold, let's get the body, and we'll get out of here. We have to search the body as well.
Travis: I run over to the gold. I run around the worm and run to the gold. And I (yelling) frenzied rage-loot this shit!. Just hacking away at it!
Matt: Slapping the stone and pouring all the rest of the gold you can get your hands on inside this--
Sam: I'll assist. Grog, Grog! Open the bag! (singing) Bigby's Hand will grab the gold. (laughter)
Laura: Yes! Oh my gosh, get so much gold!
Matt: Giant scoops into the Bag of Holding. It's just pouring off the sides of it onto the ground and you're having to scoop it back up inside.
Marisha: I take out like my little filet knife and I start going to town on the frost worm in front of me, trying to salvage anything that I can from him.
Matt: Okay!
Laura: I call Trinket and I tell him to get over by the teleportation circle.
Matt: Make a nature check real fast.
Marisha: My book! I got my book!
Sam: Who, me? Nature check?
Marisha: It's me. I got my book, which gives me advantage.
Liam: I'm meeting Trinket, and I'm going to lay-slash-nap on his back.
Marisha: 29.
Laura: And I'm going to run as fast as I can over to where I can see them hoarding the gold, because I want to see it.
Matt: All right. You get over there pretty quick.
Taliesin: I'm going to check the frozen body.
Matt: Okay. As Keyleth checks, you check the frozen body.
Taliesin: Is that the dead man?
Matt: Oh. oh! The frozen man. Okay. Keyleth. You take a moment to cut through and there's the other undamaged mandible, the eye appears to be undamaged but those are all going to be very careful, time-intensive things to remove properly. There isn't much that can really be pulled from this other than that. There's not a whole lot of material on--
Marisha: Can I vial any of the blood?
Matt: You can bottle some of the blood, yeah.
Marisha: Yeah, I want to do that.
Matt: Okay, so you bottle some of the blood--
Marisha: And I'm going to take that mandible if I can.
Matt: Okay, so you remove a mandible. So you can mark that down. All right, so you guys are gathering money.
Travis: We don't have anything to store it in, really.
Laura: Can I try to get some of the icy armor off of the big worm that's right next to me now?
Matt: You step up to it. I mean, most of the armor--
Laura: I just want to pull on it and see if I can get some of it.
Matt: The parts that you pull on, that are like big hefty chunks that would be of any real use, are part of its body. The few that are busted from the damage you dealt to it throughout the combat, they're such small pieces and they crumble at your touch.
Laura: It's okay, I'm more interested in gold anyway.
Taliesin: Is it possible to move the frozen man, or is he just really stuck in there?
Matt: You go ahead and you grab onto him, and he's actually frozen to a coat of ice that is left in there, and looking at the ice pattern, you get the sensation that that frost worm may have frozen him in there, had seen him previously and, unable to reach him within the very back of that alcove, just frost breath-ed, this one or another like it did so.
Taliesin: Keyleth! Can I borrow you over here?
Marisha: Yeah. What do you want?
Sam: Are your hands dripping with blood right now?
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Can you warm him up and see if we can get him out of here?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, so you begin to slowly--
Marisha: We were trying to do this before. We were trying to melt his face because Pike was going to do a talk to dead spell.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: We know what happened to him now, though.
Laura: Yeah, we've got to get out of here.
Matt: So, anything else you want to do?
Marisha: Well, I guess we're taking the body? I'll focus my heat on his feet so we can just dislodge him and throw him over our shoulder and go.
Matt: Okay. The ice slowly begins to melt, you gather you probably have another five to ten minutes before he'll be free.
Travis: That's pretty long. Too long.
Laura: Yeah, if we feel anything, let's go, okay. Got the gold? Let's go. Let's go.
Matt: You're still gathering gold, it's going to take you a while to get all this, it's a lot of-- it's a small opening--
Travis: Do we leave the cave or do we use the teleportation circle?
Laura: Teleportation circle.
Marisha: How much time is it going to take them to get the gold?
Matt: Probably, to get all of it? Another probably 15 minutes or so.
Laura: Jeez.
Matt: Because you have to like get in the cavern and pull out chunks, so it's a big hoard.
Marisha: How about this, let's spend five minutes doing all this stuff and see where we're at.
Laura: He's rolling, he's rolling!
Marisha: Son of a bitch, we should go.
Matt: As you're having this conversation, the ground begins to quake and you can just see--
All: Go! Run run run!
Sam: It could be an unrelated seismic event.
Laura: Scanlan, run!
Matt: All right, as you all rush around the corpses, heading towards the teleportation circle, you--
Sam: I smack myself with Bigby's Hand.
Matt: Giving yourself a lift as you're pushed along over the course, you guys rush over to the teleportation circle, right as you hear the ground erupt about 30 feet behind you.
Laura: Oh, shit!
Matt: In a very similar fashion as the initial arrival of the worm, and you hear a similar shrieking sound.
Laura: Slow-motion turn around, is it a purple one or a blue one?
Matt: It is another purple worm. A larger one. Immediate comparison? You get the idea, and as you were tearing it apart-- Both of these were adolescent. They weren't fully grown.
Taliesin: Run!
Travis: Must go faster. Must go faster.
Matt: All of you guys rush onto it, one after the other, onto the teleportation sigil, the sigil carrying each of you back to your destination before the purple worm can reach you in time, you all now find yourselves standing in the room beneath the house that previously belonged to Krieg, safe, with as much gold as you could carry in the time period you had.
Laura: Which is a good amount, I have a feeling.
Matt: We'll come back to that in a minute, but first we're going to take a little break for the restroom, guys. So we'll see you back here real fast, we'll make this a quick break, and see you soon.
Travis: Five minutes. Five minutes. Don't leave.
Matt: Bye, guys. [break]
Matt: Welcome back, everyone. So. Returning, as the party calms down after the harrowing encounter with a couple of worm-based entities. What would you like to do?
Marisha: Sorry about that whole cloud mist thing, you guys. I was trying to--
Laura: We almost died.
Marisha: Yeah. Sorry about that. Thanks, Vex.
Travis: That was you?
Marisha: Look, it was something new, I'm still working out the kinks, all right?
Laura: Don't do it again. Not in combat.
Marisha: I'm working out the kinks. I'm sorry. It'll be really cool next time I try it.
Liam: 20. Anything left? Or is it just where I, we--
Matt: Same setup where you left it, but the same pattern to escape that you recall from before.
Liam: There were traps left still. Still the same, all right.
Matt: Still the same pattern, so you guys all, thankfully, due to Vax's viselike memory, follow the path through the tiles to avoid the traps that are set entering that room. You make your way back up the stairs to the gallery room that contained the tapestries, the domino set, the gold tea set, the skull with the gem, all those things.
Taliesin: I say we grab the tea set and the skull and take them to Lady--
Laura: Dr. Dra?
Taliesin: No, actually, maybe we should have it identified first.
Laura: Right. That would be smart. What are we going to get-- are we doing-- wait. Here's a question I have. Do we have to give Dr. Dra the portion of what we found down there? Because technically it's not in the house. Technically. So, whatever we find in the house is what we give him a percentage of, yes? Yes?
Sam: Technically, he's not an honorable man. But we should be.
Laura: Right, and honorably, it is truthful to say that we didn't find it in the house. Technically, it's across the fucking world.
Travis: That's true. Give him a bit of the tea set, we give him the dominoes--
Laura: They tried to steal our money, Scanlan, and you're letting them have free rein in our house right now.
Sam: It's their nature.
Marisha: I'm still really confused as to why we came back here to begin with.
Sam: We were checking it out to see if it was safe.
Marisha: Right, well, that's been confirmed, it's not.
Laura: Right? We found the owner of the house, and he's been frozen.
Sam: Should we report this to the officials and try to quarantine the house, destroy it, something?
Taliesin: I think that would be wise.
Marisha: Quarantine the house?
Sam: Just destroy the portal, destroy the teleportation circle.
Taliesin: Certainly can't have anyone else moving in here.
Laura: We should take it for ourselves. Just to keep it safe.
Sam: Take the gold, or the house?
Travis: The house.
Laura: The house.
Laura: We should let Emperor Uriel know that we should take control of this house because it contains very powerful secrets.
Taliesin: We should find out what that skull does.
Sam: What does Pike think about that?
Matt: Pike? Hearing this conversation and still glad that everyone survived this end of this whole circumstance, goes: "Well--" (laughter)
Matt: "I mean, we should let Uriel know."
Taliesin: I can't look at him.
Matt: "But we also made a deal. And we're people of our word."
Laura: Yes, Pike, we made a deal for anything we found in the house.
Sam: Don't condescend to Pike.
Laura: I'm not condescending Pike, I am rationalizing this agreement.
Marisha: I'm still really confused as to why we are trying to maintain honor to inhonorable people.
Sam: Because we're better than that.
Laura: I'm going to tell him you said that.
Travis: Yeah, why do we care if they have money?
Sam: Let's count our money first before we make that decision. But I'm mainly concerned what Pike feels about taking control of this evil, evil house.
Laura: It's not evil, evil. It's not an evil house.
Sam: It's got an evil, mysterious gem-eye looking at us right now.
Laura: Well, exactly, it's got secrets. We have a house that has powerful secrets in it, that people shouldn't be in. I'm saying we should claim it so that we can keep other people from falling victim.
Sam: All right. If in claiming it we can get someone, some sort of religious person in here to clear it for us, making sure that it's-- Pike would be an option.
Marisha: How is this going to sound to Uriel? Excuse me, Uriel, just want to let you know that we broke into General Krieg's old house and found out it's really dangerous. Can we have it?
Laura: No, we just say-- Keyleth, really?
Marisha: Well, I'm just saying, how do we phrase this?
Laura: You think that's how you would phrase it? You'd say: we heard rumor that the owner of the house had gone missing. We went to investigate and discovered very powerful, dangerous secrets within. We know where he is. He's frozen on the other side of a portal. We need to make sure nobody else falls victim to it. So we close off the house and we say we'll keep it safe. For the time being.
Marisha: And what happens when he asks why we were there in the first place?
Laura: We tell him we heard that somebody went missing and we were investigating where he went.
Travis: That makes sense to me.
Liam: We've probably earned a bit of trust at this point.
Laura: What, we have to go through his guard? No. We're part of the council.
Marisha: I don't know
Laura: I think it's a very fair-- Percy?
Taliesin: I would agree. I don't think it's necessary for us to claim ownership for it. We just need to have it cordoned off and make sure no one else, other than us, can come in.
Laura: Exactly. I'm not saying it's ours. I'm saying we just make sure no else comes in.
Sam: We're leasing with an option to buy.
Travis: Is the skull with the gem in there still?
Matt: It's still turned away, and I believe you put a tapestry over it.
Laura: Yes, we did.
Taliesin: Let's bundle it up in the tapestry.
Liam: That thing is trouble, though, that thing is trouble
Taliesin: Well, let's take it to somebody who--
Sam: Take the skull?
Taliesin: I think we should take the skull and show it to someone who might know what it is.
Travis: All right, I go over and grab the tapestry and the skull, hold it like a knapsack.
Matt: Okay, make-- no this is fine, it's relatively light.
Travis: Can you hear me?
Taliesin: Yes, Grog, we can hear you.
Travis: Yeah. Right, good, maybe--
Sam: Oh shit, the whispers. If you haven't read the comics, check it out on geekandsundry.com.
Taliesin: And while you're there, spend some money at Gilmore's Glorious Goods. Gilmore's, where all of your magical items can be procured. With a smile a week.
Laura: (laughing) That was the lamest slogan ever.
Marisha: All of your items can be purchased.
Taliesin: I'm exhausted.
Travis: Shut the fuck up! Wait, wait, wait. Last part, last part, last part.
Sam: And don't forget!
Taliesin: Don't forget?
Sam: If someone's whispering in your ear, it's probably the sound of your conscience saying: "Go buy a T-shirt!"
Travis: I take off running out of the house.
Matt: As you guys are having this conversation, Grog just bolts out of the house. Just runs up the stairs, out through the foyer, and is--
Laura: Grog!
Taliesin: Grog!
Liam: I start running after him, and I'm hasted.
Marisha: Oh, it's reverse whispering!
Taliesin: It's the reverse whisper!
Sam: Guys, this is the rest of the show.
Taliesin: They're not talking, there's just tongues in ears.
Laura: (laughs) Lalalala.
Marisha: Wet willie.
Liam: I'm running out stealthing, after him.
Laura: I stop and I get the golden tea set. And I take off after him.
Travis: (yelling) Guys, you've got to come out of the house, now!
Taliesin: Okay, we're running out of the house.
Travis: We've got to get out of the house. Now!
Taliesin: We're running out of the house.
Marisha: Okay, okay. We're running out of the house. Christ.
Taliesin: I'm following him out of the house, so.
Matt: Right. You all rush out. You're now out of the foyer. You burst out the front of the home itself. You're in the front yard at this point in time, in the slightly dead grass.
Taliesin: It's going to go Poltergeist on us, isn't it?
Marisha: The house just collapses.
Matt: The sun's still high in the sky, late afternoon at this point.
Laura: What the fuck was that about?
Travis: The house and the skull are linked. As long as the house stands, his evil will grow.
Sam: Whose evil?
Travis: It didn't say. The house has to be taken down to the ground. The portal must be destroyed.
Liam: Says who? Who's in there?
Travis: (loud and angry) I just heard this fucking-- (calmer, hesitating) I. Have... premonitions at times, it runs in my family.
Marisha: Since when, Grog?
Travis: You know, when I'm drinking ale, this voice goes like: "Stop!" But I'm like: "No." And I keep going. And sure enough, I should've stopped.
Marisha: But you haven't been drinking today.
Sam: That voice is usually me.
Travis: Are you saying anything?
Matt: Grog. Make a deception check.
Travis: 12.
Matt: I'm going to say, over the course of everyone listening, Grog hasn't been really fancy with wordplay or deception. He's a very blunt, upfront person, and it's very awkward to see a childlike mind attempt to convey a fictional story like the one he's been pretending.
Laura: So, you're lying.
Travis: What?
Laura: You're lying, Grog.
Travis: What? Why do you say that?
Taliesin: Because you're really bad at it. And it's hilarious.
Travis: Reverse psychology. I'm really bad at it.
Laura: Yes, you are.
Travis: That didn't work.
Taliesin: No, it didn't.
Liam: I want to walk right up to Grog. Right up to his nipples, because that's as high as I go.
Sam: Kiss him on the mouth. (laughter)
Liam: That's two episodes from today. Will you come down here, please? Big Man? Couple of things. First, and this is a smaller detail, I shaved half your beard, correct? It's correct. You've cut me open at least twice, right now. Pike, come here.
Matt: Pike walks up. "Yeah?"
Liam: I would say that makes you and I even. You've been acting all kinds of fucked-up for a while now, and I know you don't want to disappoint her, your best friend. Something's going on with you, and it's time to talk about it. You're talking to yourself, you're talking to your own asshole. You're talking to that fucking sword, you're talking to trinkets we're picking up in houses. What is going on?
Travis: Talking to the sword?
Liam: And she's listening. And she knows when you're lying, and she knows when you're telling the truth.
Travis: Pike?
Matt: She does give you this concerned look that only a possibly disappointed friend can give you, like, "I am worried about you, Grog."
Travis: Honestly, I'm hurt. I'm offended. And we are not fucking equal. If you want to get equal, we can step out here, and handle business like men.
Marisha: Who all is around to see this?
Travis: I've cut you open twice. Twice.
Liam: I walk away. I walk off. I leave the fucking house.
Laura: We're already out of the house.
Matt: So as you guys are standing in front of the house, Vax just steps out into the center of the Cloudtop District, in the direction towards the exit.
Liam: Gone. Stealthed. Laters.
Travis: Pike, can I talk to you for a second?
Matt: "Yeah. Grog, anything."
Travis: (scoffs) Talking to my sword. The skull has a voice.
Matt: "What do you mean?"
Travis: Yeah. I picked it up, right, because I was just going to carry it out, and it said, like: "I can grant you a wish. Any wish that you want."
Matt: "We've been told something similar before, and that didn't go too well. Put the skull down, please."
Travis: Yeah. But it's a wish. We can wish for anything.
Matt: "Grog, please, trust me? Put the skull down."
Travis: I don't want to put it down.
Matt: "I know. Do you trust me?"
Travis: Yes.
Matt: "Put the skull down, Grog."
Travis: I drop the skull.
Matt: Okay. The tapestry clatters to the ground and opens up, and the skull rolls for a second and stops on its side. You can see now, the golden skull is just resting there. The gem still with the intricate filigree, buried within the eye socket. Pike turns to the rest of you and calls you over. "We don't know what this is. And dangerous magics are drawn to imagery like this. Let us see what this is about, first."
Marisha: Pike, can you discern what kind of entity this might be attached to?
Matt: "I had a feeling before." And she pulls out her healing symbol and casts Detect Good or Evil again in the direction of the skull. You can see she recoils the moment that she concentrates. "The aura is definitely evil from this object."
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: Maybe it was lying to you.
Sam: What?
Travis: Lying? I hadn't thought of that.
Marisha: Is that all you have, Pike? That's all you can find out?
Matt: "You have to take it to somebody who knows it or spend some time with it, perhaps."
Laura: How about this, how about nobody ask the skull any more questions?
Marisha: Yeah, no one touch the-- Is it just laying on the floor right now?
Matt: Just laying right there, off to the side.
Sam: Put it in the Bag of Holding?
Laura: No.
Marisha: No.
Laura: I don't like evil things in the Bag of Holding. We have lots of weird things in there, I don't know how it'll react.
Taliesin: I'm going to pull out my sword and pick it up by the eye socket.
Matt: The empty one? Okay. You lift it up.
Taliesin: I'm going to carry it on a stick.
Laura: Should we put a cloth over it?
Sam: Yeah, that might look a little weird.
Taliesin: It's going to look weird with a cloth over it, but please, go ahead.
Matt: Okay. Vex, as you approach it and go to throw the cloth over it, you get a brief view of the gem that's in the socket. And where there was a slight shimmer to its surface when it was looking to before, you can now see briefly what looks like some sort of a ghostly face appears across the surface for a second and then fades.
Laura: Oh, shit.
Matt: You throw it over it.
Laura: That thing's alive. That is definitely alive.
Travis: What, the skull?
Laura: No, no, no. There's definitely something in that stone. It looked at me.
Sam: Well, that's creepy. Can we take it to someone; who do we know? Not Gilmore, this is beyond--
Laura: Allura? She's not here, she's--
Matt: Allura's in Whitestone right now.
Sam: If only we had some way to magically transport to Whitestone.
Taliesin: We do actually have a way of magically transporting to Whitestone.
Sam: Yes. We do. Could you go?
Laura: Oh. Just one of us though.
Sam: Yes, you.
Laura: Can you transport items with it?
Taliesin: As long as they're on you, as long as you're holding them.
Marisha: But Percy, to be fair, you've had a bit of a weakness with, you know, evil entities being attached to you.
Travis: Yeah. Besides, if it grants a wish. I get the fucking wish.
Laura: You get the wish, Grog, you sure get the wish.
Marisha: No, it's not going to-- It's not granting anyone's wish.
Sam: We could send Pike with it?
Marisha: I mean, if want to sleep a day, we can all just bamf back. We can tree stride back to Whitestone, if we want to take a nap.
Laura: That's true.
Sam: Wait, we're going to sleep with this skull in our house?
Marisha: Well, I've already spent my one 6th-level spell turning us into fucking clouds.
Sam: You didn't turn me into a cloud.
Laura: Or me.
Marisha: Yeah. Honestly, if I would've turned everyone into a cloud--
Taliesin: We'll keep it locked in my workshop for now. We can make it a night. And we will make sure that they know we have to deal with the house.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: Who has to deal with the house?
Laura: I'm going to go speak to Uriel and see if I can tell him what just happened.
Sam: You by yourself?
Laura: You can all come with me.
Sam: All right.
Taliesin: I'll actually-- I've got a great idea.
Sam: Oh. We'll leave the skull with Uriel.
Taliesin: I'll take the skull to Whitestone, and I'll see you in the morning.
Laura: No.
Sam: After you've been corrupted by it?
Laura: How about we all go together to Whitestone?
Taliesin: I was just thinking it'll be a way of getting the skull out of the house tonight.
Laura: Yeah, but then it'll be in Whitestone.
Sam: We'll leave the skull in this house--
Taliesin: That's a very fair point. We're not leaving-- I don't think that's a good idea.
Laura: No.
Marisha: What, hang on, Grog. You were--
Laura: Why did you run the skull out of the house?
Marisha: Yes. Exactly.
Travis: I told you. The house is evil. The portal has to be crushed.
Sam: Wait, that part's true?
Marisha: The portal has to be crushed?
Travis: It's an evil portal. Yeah.
Sam: Who told you that?
Travis: The skull did.
Sam: Oh, in addition to the wish? Oh.
Laura: I don't know. Maybe the skull was trapped in the house. Maybe it wanted to get out of the house.
Sam: It's like a genie.
Travis: Don't look at me. I'm just the translator.
Sam: Oh, this is weird. We need some help on this.
Marisha: Why was it talking through you, Grog? Why not Pike?
Taliesin: I think we'll get answers from Allura.
Marisha: If you can ask it questions, maybe we could ask it a few more questions?
Travis: I'm okay with that.
Sam: No. It will hypnotize us and corrupt us.
Travis: It's in a knapsack.
Laura: I think we should hide it and then open it up when we're in front of Allura.
Taliesin: That's fair.
Marisha: What time is it?
Matt: Right now, it's mid-afternoon. Two, three o'clock in the afternoon.
Taliesin: Let's let Uriel know what's happened.
Sam: We'll go on a quick pub crawl.
Taliesin: I've got to get home and work on a few things, anyway. I've got a broken gun.
Marisha: I guess I'll go with Percy and take the skull, and I'll make sure we put it somewhere safe in the keep, if you guys want to go talk to Uriel.
Laura: Pike? Grog? What do you guys want to do?
Travis: What do we want to do, Pike?
Matt: "I don't know. We wanted to go talk to Uriel."
Marisha: Do you want to come with us, Pike? Do you want to be with the skull, Pike, or do you want to go talk to Uriel?
Matt: "I should walk with you with the skull."
Taliesin: Yes, I think that would be best.
Sam: Before we all part ways, can we do a quick accounting of the gold?
Laura: We can't just count it right here.
Taliesin: We'll count it back when we're--
Laura: Away from your friends, but back at the keep.
Sam: All right. Fair enough.
Matt: Okay. So, as you guys make your way back to Greyskull Keep with the skull, keeping it properly covered so you're not walking through the city with a giant gold skull at the end of a sword. You head towards the palace. You make your way through the front to the outer doors. The throne room is currently closed, and there is heavy guard up, and upon you approaching, "I'm sorry. Do you have business with Uriel?"
Laura: Not at the moment.
Matt: "All right."
Laura: But we will, once you tell him that we're here.
Matt: "All right. Hold on." He steps inside. The doors close. About two minutes pass. The guard comes back out. "I'm terribly sorry. Uriel currently is in a very heated discussion and cannot take guests at the moment. Would you like me to relay a message?"
Sam: Yes.
Laura: Yes, but we would like to write it down first.
Sam: Actually, while you were gone-- And I cast Friends on him. While you were gone, other guards came by and said we were clear to go in.
Matt: You can go ahead and make a deception check with advantage.
Sam: Natural 20.
Matt: He goes, "Other guards? Uriel himself just told me I can't let anyone inside."
Laura: Oh, they must have seen him right after you saw him.
Matt: "All right, fine." And he opens the door. You guys walk in, and there you see the entirety of the rest of the Council of Tal'Dorei. You see Tofur Brotorus, you see Seeker Asum, you see-- what the hell is his name? The other guy. Arbiter Brom. They're all gathered in this discussion. Uriel looks up immediately and says, "I'm sorry, we're not taking any--"
Laura: We heard there was a council meeting.
Matt: "Technically, no, but yes, what is your business?"
Laura: We're here because there's a council thing?
Sam: We're here to report a security concern of the utmost importance and urgency to you.
Matt: There's a long, internalized sigh. Not out of frustration, just more out of being lost in thought and a little sad. He goes, "All right. Very well."
Laura: Is everything all right, Uriel?
Matt: "Everything's fine. What would you like to bring to the council?"
Sam: Are we among friends here and free to talk in front of everyone?
Matt: He looks around. "These are my trusted advisors and my trusted palace guard. Yes."
Sam: We've been alerted to some evil afoot in your kingdom yet again. The former Krieg's homestead has been vacant for a while and apparently has a portal to an evil realm inside. We went to investigate, acting on a tip from--
Laura: An old friend.
Sam: Yes.
Laura: And discovered that it was, in fact, true. The owner that was missing has been killed.
Matt: "So, Krieg's estate, which was sold off after his disappearance over a year ago, you're telling me contains some sort of evil portal."
Laura: Yes.
Matt: "Was this built by the new owner?"
Laura: No, I believe it was built by Krieg.
Matt: "Built by Krieg? How are you certain of this?"
Sam: Our informant told us as much. We don't want to give his name.
Laura: It seems rather old, this portal.
Matt: "Where is Krieg now?"
Laura: I have no idea.
Matt: "All right. Well, we'll send a security force to keep a very close eye on the house while it is investigated."
Sam: It's extremely magically dangerous. They should not set foot inside the place at all.
Laura: Incredibly dangerous. It might be best if we investigate it ourselves.
Matt: "All right, if you'd like. I was going to wait until Allura returned and I was going to assign her to it, but if you feel confident, then I will leave the investigation in your hands."
Laura: Thank you.
Sam: Will you notify us when she returns?
Matt: "I will."
Sam: Is there anything else?
Laura: No. You all look quite lovely today, and we will leave you to your business.
Matt: Asum chuckles a little bit. The rest of them acknowledge, Tofor gives a nod, and Uriel closes his eyes for a second and rubs his temple and goes, "I appreciate the information. If you please, we have matters to discuss."
Sam: Just real quick before we leave. I'm sorry. I think I had a burrito. Can I just use a facility inside? A restroom or something?
Matt: "Certainly."
Sam: Thank you.
Laura: I'll wait for him.
Sam: Just wait out of earshot.
Laura: Far away.
Matt: "Thank you." They wait as you guys leave the chambers. The guards close the doors, and you're welcome to go. There are a number of various WCs, water closets, throughout the palace.
Laura: They closed the doors?
Sam: They closed the doors?
Matt: They're not going to let you crap in the middle of the throne room!
Laura: No, but I thought I could wait in the back of the throne room, out of earshot.
Matt: The guards are pushing you out of the throne room. This is a very private meeting.
Laura: Excuse me, handsy. I'm leaving.
Matt: "Sorry, Miss. Orders of Uriel." They push you out and close the doors.
Sam: I've been in the throne room before?
Matt: You have been, yes.
Sam: Do you have eyes on them?
Laura: No, they fucking shut me out.
Sam: All right. Give me ten minutes.
Liam: Do you need a scroll?
Sam: I sit down on the WC.
Matt: Do you take your potion?
Sam: No, I don't. Instead, I Polymorph into a fly, and I'm going to fly my way to the throne room.
Matt: Okay. All right. You fly through, over to the doors. The front doors?
Sam: Of the throne room?
Matt: How are you getting into the throne room?
Sam: The doors are closed, yes?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Is there any gap at all?
Matt: There is a slight gap on the bottom.
Sam: Okay, I'm going to crawl in there.
Matt: As you come by, one of the guards swings at you. You dodge out of the way without issue and make your way underneath the doors and raise your flight pattern.
Laura: I start chatting up the guards on the outside of the door to distract them a little bit.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Sam: Dexterity? Oh, no, someone's got a fly swatter! Ten?
Matt: Okay. As you cruise in for a moment, you can see the throne room itself, in its round pattern, has designs carved into the walls, almost like Celtic knots. There are a number of these designs right towards the sides of each entrance that previously just looked like a design, but they emit a dull glow for a second, and a burst of arcane energy comes out from them. You find your form immediately unfurl into that of Scanlan the gnome, which then plops back onto the ground, your Polymorph spell dispelled. All of a sudden, the talk stops and the entire council turns back towards the entrance as you're catching yourself on the ground.
Liam: Surprise!
Sam: That one's full. The one that I tried to go into? It's full and it needs a big cleaning.
Matt: "Good to know, Scanlan."
Sam: I thought there was another one this way.
Matt: "There isn't, Scanlan."
Sam: Not through there, or anything? All right. Carry on, then. You should send someone up to service it, though, right away.
Matt: He looks over to Tofor, and Tofor goes--
Sam: It's a matter of security.
Matt: "We'll have it done. Thank you, Scanlan. Now, please."
Sam: Okay. Two lefts and a right, and I'm out? Thank you.
Liam: Matt's got to be using Botox, because he didn't move! (laughter)
Matt: Yeah, you gather, due to recent events, that the magical defenses have been reinstated, with the current circumstances. The doors open again, and Vex, as you turn, you see Scanlan being led out of the doors.
Laura: Scanlan, what are you doing here?
Sam: Shat all over my plans. Let's go home, I guess.
Matt: All right. You guys make your way back to Greyskull Keep. Vax is there, waiting.
Liam: No, I'm not.
Matt: Oh, you didn't go back to the keep?
Liam: Nope.
Laura: I tell some guards on the way out just to block off that house and not let anybody in it. Don't go inside, on your life.
Matt: "Noted. The order just came through. Don't worry. We're gathering a troop specifically for this. Don't worry."
Laura: Not a lot of troops. Just a couple of dudes is good.
Matt: "Very well."
Laura: Okay.
Matt: As you're leaving, you can see there are a few armed individuals, four, approximately, that are moving towards the house to stand guard and inspect the exterior, at the very least. You return to Greyskull Keep. You guys get there, as well. Grog, you return on your own, essentially, at this point, unless you're walking with them with the skull. Vax is nowhere to be found. You do find that Dr. Dranzel, that whole team is gone, except for Zed.
Sam: The drummer?
Matt: Yes. Zed is currently having a little bit of ale in the dining room area, along with Jarett, who was assigned to watch over while they're at the keep. As you step inside, they all notice. Jarett, still with his crossbow loaded in his lap, though he's happy and jovial and conversational with Zed. "Ah, you've returned. Good to see all of you in good health. The rest have left into the city."
Sam: Did they say why? For a performance?
Matt: Zed leans forward and goes, "Actually, it appears that Kaylie got in some sort of a serious bar tussle last night and is currently being held in the stocks. The stockade. I get those words confused. Stockade." He takes a sip of his ale. "The rest of the troupe's going to see if they can get her out."
Sam: All right, good to know. Thanks, Zed.
Laura: Jarett?
Matt: "Yes?"
Laura: Any issues while we were gone?
Matt: "No issues, actually. They were good conversationalists. They were very aware of my disposition, and I kept a very close eye on any movement, preventing them from leaving the room unless they were as a group, except for their exit, in which Zed escorted me. There have been no problems."
Laura: Good man. I pat him on the shoulder.
Travis: She's in the stockade. Only problem is getting caught. I like her style. Should we get her out?
Sam: I'd like to, very much, but I don't know how. We can't just barge in there and break someone out of jail. We're known people.
Laura: Don't you have your sheriff badge?
Liam: (laughs) Well-remembered.
Travis: Yeah, can't we post a bond or something?
Sam: It's customs, not sheriff.
Laura: Call the council.
Marisha: Well, it sounds like they've already-- they're sending other people to get her out. What's the big deal?
Sam: Yeah, but they could make the problem worse.
Laura: Those guys? They'll make it worse.
Sam: She's quite special to me. I think we should-- I think I should go and try to get her out.
Marisha: Oh, she's 'quite special' to you, yeah?
Travis: There's one place I haven't done it, and it's in a prison.
Sam: Not, not in that way. (laughter)
Sam: That's creepy. No, not in that way.
Marisha: Why is that creepy?
Sam: I'm not interested in her in that way.
Marisha: But you were courting her two days ago.
Sam: Things have changed.
Marisha: I thought she spent the night in your room.
Sam: She's a good person and she deserves much better than the likes of me--
Taliesin: That's never stopped you before.
Laura: Don't say that, Scanlan. You've got a cube!
Marisha: That's true.
Sam: It's a rather large cube, but, listen, all right, she's-- she's-- we're related. We're related.
Marisha: What?
Sam: And I don't just mean--
Marisha: Wait, what?
Sam: She's a Shorthalt.
Travis: Like a cousin?
Laura: Like a sister?
Marisha: Like an aunt?
Taliesin: Like a mother?
Sam: Like a baby. Like a baby Shorthalt.
Travis: Whose baby?
Sam: (high-pitched 'hee' sound)
Travis: 'He'? (laughter)
Sam: Listen, don't spread the word around. I don't want my cred to be ruined, but... she's my little girl.
Laura: You dog!
Travis: You're a baby daddy?
Sam: I didn't know this, this is new information. I'm still just adjusting to it.
Travis: Holy shit!
Marisha: You tried to sleep with your baby daddy?
Sam: No I didn't.
Travis: Did you lock that up that night?
Sam: No, I did not! I did not try and sleep with her. I think deep down inside, some part of me knew, which is why I gave her all that gold. I think.
Travis: You paid her for it?
Sam: No! Oh, Grog, please! (laughter)
Sam: I may deserve that but no, no. It's not like that at all.
Laura: Then you didn't know. There's no part of you that knew you had any children.
Sam: I mean, I always knew that was a possibility, in the trade I deal in.
Matt: At this point Zed breaks in and goes, (chuckles) "Indeed!"
Sam: All right. Easy. Listen, drummer--
Matt: "It's Zed."
Sam: You can be replaced easily. When I played with them, we had seven drummers in two years. And I killed two of them. (laughter)
Matt: He sets his drink down and pushes it away. "Should I go?"
Sam: No, just stay and shut up.
Travis: I'll take that, though. I take his drink.
Marisha: Oh, wow. Well, that's--
Sam: Yes, I don't quite know how to act or behave now. And I'm going through a crisis of conscience and identity. I'm sorry; I'm off my game right now. But she's related to me.
Laura: Just make sure that she knows that you love her. And make sure that she knows that you're there for her.
Marisha: Why do you keep saying she's 'related to' you? Why don't you just call her exactly what she is? Which is your daughter.
Sam: I don't know. Okay, all right.
Marisha: That's weird to be like, 'my child is related to me.'
Sam: I'm not good with this stuff. I haven't done this before, all right? I haven't really had family for much of my life. And this is a new thing and it's going to take me some time to adjust and figure out what this means for me. All right? I've defined most of my life by the people I've slept with and now, this a new part of me that I have to figure out.
Laura: Well, technically, it's still defined by--
Taliesin: I was just thinking that. It's a redefinition.
Laura: You could make a really good move of it by helping her get out of the stockade.
Sam: I would like to. But I'll need some help, probably. I don't know if we can all go barge in there.
Laura: Trinket.
Matt: (bear grunts)
Laura: Scanlan needs help
Matt: Trinket lumbers over to you and (slurp). Licks the side of your face. (bear groan) Leans into you. Nearly pushing you off your feet from the sheer mass.
Sam: (laughs) Thanks, Vex. Trinket, I'm okay for right now. But maybe you can help best by staying here and looking after the drummer here and making sure.
Matt: (growls) Just growls at Zed, who stands up. "I'm just here to make sure that we continue our deal when they return. I'm not-- I don't-- I just play the drums."
Laura: You do a good job of it. Keep drinking that ale.
Travis: I give it back.
Matt: "I--" Takes the empty and goes and refills it from a nearby cask.
Sam: I know it's late in the day, but I wouldn't mind going right away. Does anyone want to join me?
Travis: Do you want all of us? Or a smaller party?
Sam: Probably just a smaller party. Don't we have business to attend to here? Gold to count and--
Laura: I can stay and count.
Travis: I can stay with her.
Marisha: Who do you want to take? You pick your dodgeball team.
Travis: Yeah, yeah.
Laura: Ooh, I like it.
Taliesin: Yes.
Sam: Well to get out of a stockade, we'll need some cunning. And cunning-- And cunning.
Travis: Go ahead and ask.
Sam: I wish Vax were here.
Travis: Don't we have earrings?
Sam: You know what, we are but they have a range.
Laura: They do have a range.
Sam: Come in, Vax. Earth to Vax. Tune in Tokyo.
Matt: Approximately where are you right now?
Marisha: So many secrets!
Matt: I love the whispers!
Sam: He's gone to Whitestone!
Matt: All right, there is no response. He really is out of range.
Sam: Percy, I need you for your words, and Keyleth for your magic. Let's go.
Marisha: All right.
Laura: We're useless.
Marisha: Can I heal myself up first?
Sam: Sure, if you've got a little left for me. Wait, I can give us--
Marisha: Oh wait, Pike! Will you hook us up?
Matt: "Yeah," And she goes over and--
Taliesin: I'm going to try and do a quick repair to my gun, also.
Matt: Okay, go for it. She throws down a couple of Cure Light Wounds. She's going to do 3rd level to each of you.
Marisha: Dope.
Matt: Of Cure Wounds. This'll be 3d8 plus five to each of you. So 23 to you, and 21 to you, Scanlan. She'll do a third one to you, Keyleth. Because you're looking pretty rough, right Keyleth?
Marisha: Huh?
Matt: You're looking pretty rough?
Marisha: I'm at 65 now, with that. So I'm still 30 under.
Matt: So on top of that you get another 13. Pike's going to stay with you guys.
Laura: Oh, okay.
Matt: All right, so. While you guys count the gold and what you managed to gather, you find in the--
Laura: Out of sight of Zed! Just so you know.
Matt: Not a worry. You manage to pull from the hoard entirely, out of gold, silver, copper, platinum, the equivalent of 4,150 gold pieces.
Travis: Wow.
Liam: There was another 20 or 30g there.
Laura: I know, right?
Liam: Probably.
Sam: We can go back.
Marisha: How much? 4,000?
Matt: 4,150 gold.
Travis: You don't want to go back in there.
Matt: About 1,050 gold worth of gems.
Laura: 1,050.
Matt: Yep, in gems. Mark that. And about 750 gold approximately of art items, knick knacks, things that you would have to find a specific seller to really get the money for them.
Laura: (singing) Knick knacks.
Sam: Tchotchkes.
Matt: Yeah, like small jade statues, bits of jewelry...
Laura: And how much in platinum?
Matt: Well, the gold equivalent of platinum is what it would be. The total amount is 4,000. But nice try. All right, so. You guys make your way-- After asking around a bit, you figure the closest stockade is the Promenade stockade.
Sam: Oh, there's multiple stockades.
Matt: There are. But that's the one that's closest to the keep and the first place you should start. So you make your way towards the Promenade stockade. It's a fairly grim-looking grey stone building on the outskirts of Abdar's Promenade, which is a very, very, bombastic, colorful gathering of tents and buildings and various shopkeeps. As you walk to the outside of it, approaching, you can see immediately, there on the steps, is most of Dr. Dranzel's troupe, just sitting on the outside steps with two guards at the door. And they're all talking amongst themselves, waiting outside. Dr. Dranzel is not amongst them. As you begin to step closer--
Sam: He got nabbed, too, didn't he?
Matt: (laughs) As you step closer, you can see they wave you down, and they recognize you and approach you with an excited look on their face as if they now have some sort of backup.
Marisha: I'm going to whisper to Scanlan. I'm going to say, I'm going to stay back. You go ahead.
Sam: All right, thanks.
Matt: So Kent Plucker approaches you as you approach and goes like, "Scanlan. Good thing you're here. I think we may need your silvered tongue to go ahead and help us out in this endeavor. Dr. Dranzel's inside; he's been arguing with the warden for quite some time. We're trying to get Kaylie out."
Sam: What happened? Why is she in jail?
Matt: "She got in a bit of a bar fight last night, it seems. Messed up quite a few gentlemen and all of them are arrested and being held inside. They're wanting a bit of change to do the damages and pay for the fine of whatever else she's done. And, well, we're not keen on really paying fines, so we're trying to see how much we can get out of this with our--"
Sam: What's the fine?
Matt: "I don't know. We didn't go in as a full group. The guards wouldn't let us."
Sam: Was she injured in any way?
Matt: "I haven't seen her. You'll have to go inside to find out."
Sam: All right. Thank you. You won't be needed here anymore. You guys can leave.
Matt: They all look at each other. "If it's fine by you, we're going to wait for Dr. Dranzel."
Sam: Oh yes, all right. Percy.
Taliesin: Yes?
Sam: What do you think our play is here?
Taliesin: Well--
Sam: Should we go in and pay? Should we do a bit of a ruse? You still have your Hat of Disguise, right?
Taliesin: Yes, but I think I'm more useful as myself, rather than anybody else.
Sam: Well, you could be a guard taking me in there.
Taliesin: I think on a certain level, you're possibly making this more complicated than it needs to be.
Sam: Yeah, but it's fun, though? No, no, you're right, we should just go in and talk.
Taliesin: You forget you have clout. Part of the point of clout is that you spend it. You spend your clout.
Sam: Oh, all right.
Taliesin: I know you're not used to actually having the means by which to just simply get what you want by asking for it. But you could just... ask for it.
Marisha: That was the most privileged thing you've ever said.
Taliesin: That's the most privileged thing I've ever said that you've heard. (laughter)
Marisha: Touché.
Liam: Marisha has a high clout score.
Sam: So you think just walk on in there. No subterfuge, no sneaky-sneaky, no breaking down doors?
Taliesin: Well, a little subterfuge. Let me--
Marisha: I've got Polymorph. I can always be a tiny thing in your pocket.
Sam: Who said that?
Marisha: Sorry, I'm back here. I figured Percy and I were waiting back here.
Sam: Oh, okay, hi.
Taliesin: Let me attempt to see if I can defuse this relatively easily. I will need some gold.
Sam: Are you lying to me to get me to pay you for a new gun?
Taliesin: No, but that's a very good point. So later I will be asking for some gold to help me fix my new gun.
Sam: All right, I'll give you what you need.
Taliesin: All right.
Marisha: Do you have gold, Scanlan?
Sam: I do.
Taliesin: Okay, we may have to have a discussion. At the very least I'm going to need 20 gold, at the very least.
Sam: 20?
Taliesin: 20 gold, at the very least.
Sam: You don't have 20 gold?
Taliesin: Oh, I do. Just not for your daughter.
Sam: Oh, Jesus. (laughter)
Sam: Take 50.
Taliesin: That will do.
Matt: So you guys approach?
Marisha: No trips to Coldstone with Percy. You are not the Godfather.
Taliesin: I will take you to White Castle, though.
Matt: You come to the front steps of the stockade, there are two guards there, with tower shields and what looks like halberds to each of them. One of them steps forward, putting his shield out. Not in an aggressive way, but definitely in an attention-gathering way. "Do you have business here in the stockade?"
Taliesin: I do; I wish to speak to the warden.
Matt: "The warden is indisposed in conversation at the moment."
Taliesin: Well, he will agree to be indisposed in conversation with me. I'm Percival Fredrickstein Von Musel Klossowski de Rolo III. And I'm here on the business of Whitestone.
Sam: He's an ambassador.
Matt: Make a persuasion roll. I'll say with advantage due to the very, very, intense, believable stare of Scanlan backing you up.
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: He gives a nod. "All right, but good luck." The two guards open the doors, and as they do you can already hear raised voices shouting back and forth. Can't really make out the words, but as you step into the inside you can see there is a clerk's desk. With a clerk sitting there, keeping one ear closed as he's trying to write in a book. To the immediate right of them, there is Dr. Dranzel in an argument with a gentleman with a well-kept mustache, thick over the top lip, slicked black hair that curls up in the back in a small poof. He's wearing a breastplate and is standing with an appearance of self-importance. At which point, as you approach, Dr. Dranzel turns and goes, "Oh good. Someone with actual--"
Taliesin: Shush! Who is this person?
Matt: Everyone gets quiet and the individual standing there goes, "Well apparently, he's the man who's bothering me. Hm?"
Taliesin: What do you do, sir?
Sam: I just throw Dranzel a quick little wink.
Taliesin: What do you do, sir?
Matt: "I'm a performer." (slight chuckle)
Taliesin: Excellent, he's a performer. You may leave, we have no need of you.
Laura: (whispered) Oh, shit.
Matt: "Hmph." He adjusts his hat and--
Taliesin: Guard, escort the commoner out of the room.
Matt: The guards instinctively step up and take his arms and they lead him out. Dr. Dranzel, taken aback and the whole time he's looking at Scanlan with this look of like--
Sam: You heard the ambassador; please leave. (laughter)
Matt: (boom) The doors close behind. The individual steps forward.
Taliesin: Now that that's been taken care of, who is an authority that I may speak to?
Matt: "That, I'm afraid, would be me. (sly chuckle) Pleasure to meet you. I'm Warden Cyrus Hume. What is your name?"
Taliesin: Cyrus Hume. I'm Percival Fredrickstein Von Musel Klossowski de Rolo III of Whitestone.
Matt: "This does me no service."
Taliesin: It will.
Matt: "Hmph."
Taliesin: I am, of course, the newly appointed ambassador from Whitestone, and I have been brought down here because apparently you are holding one of my performers. A performer who is meant to be heading towards Whitestone in the next three weeks to perform for my sister.
Matt: "Describe your performer, sir."
Taliesin: Oh, small, plain, female. (dismissive sigh)
Matt: (sighs heavily) "I know of the one you speak. The same one we're arguing-- I assume this other individual that just left is one of your performers as well."
Taliesin: Yes, he is. He is one of the official performers-- they're supposed to be performing at the new coronation of a brand new temple in Whitestone. Much has been arranged, much has been paid for, and I don't want to explain any of this to the royal court.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Taliesin: Casting-- no, not yet. 13.
Matt: Okay. He goes--
Taliesin: If you were to be agreeable to helping us move this along, I would remember the favor. Whitestone would remember the favor.
Matt: "Good. Well, listen. There are fines for damages, or she sits until tried. Now."
Taliesin: Damages?
Matt: "The damages to the Nervous Brook pub are estimated to be upwards of 450 gold pieces, and the fine for drunken battery and disturbing the peace amounts to 250 gold pieces. 700 total and I would gladly let you take that rabid dug-grubber off of my hands."
Sam: You'll watch what you say about her.
Matt: "Oh, will I?"
Taliesin: Shush, performer. Well, sir, I appreciate your candor, I appreciate the cut of your jib, and I appreciate that you are a man of honor and of your station. It is very, very rare to find someone who respects such things. Obviously the damages must be paid--
Matt: "If you wish to discuss it with the three in question--" He points to one of the cells on the other side of the room and you can see that there is a set of bars, and you can vaguely see what looks like the shape of a person who's just slumped in the cell. Mostly cast in shadow.
Taliesin: Who are they?
Matt: "Bar patrons. And they're all worse for wear."
Taliesin: Do we know what happened?
Matt: "The dog has teeth. Three against one, if the stories say true. The bar patrons and the owner of the establishment all verified that she indeed started and finished it."
Taliesin: I don't care who started or finished it. Obviously, we will pay for the damages out of your troupe's pocket.
Sam: Your majesty, are you sure you don't want to write a check from the treasury?
Taliesin: Quite.
Sam: I've got the checkbook with me. We could just write a check.
Taliesin: We will write a check for our friend's pocket, but for the damages, I feel that some responsibility must be taken.
Matt: "I'm not familiar with this check you speak of. I deal in gold, as does Emon. What good does this do me in my station if I am to show up with a simple piece of paper?"
Taliesin: He has a very fair point.
Sam: (whispers) Your brand of subterfuge is not what I had in mind. (laughter)
Taliesin: What good is subterfuge when there's such an opportunity to create a ballad? Some sort of ballad about a cautionary tale.
Sam: I could have picked anyone to be with me here. Not this. You're rubbing my face in it because I threw your gun in the lava.
Taliesin: You chose so poorly. You chose so poorly. It is truly impressive how poorly you chose.
Matt: "Stop wasting my time, if you're going to retrieve this invalid, do so quickly."
Taliesin: You may come pick up your gold from Castle Greyskull in the morning. It will be waiting for you, of course, sir. In the meantime, here is 20 gold for your trouble. On top of the gold you will be expecting for all fines imposed.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Taliesin: (high-pitched) One.
Matt: He rolled a natural 20.
Taliesin: All right, bring it. Bring it.
Matt: "Well, I appreciate your attempt to maneuver around my station of which you hold so clear. You seemingly attempt to bribe a warden of the stockade in an attempt to retrieve what appears to be a relatively... How do I put it? Immoral, destitute and feral creature."
Sam: Warden. This is just like this bastard. He always goes around trying to boss people around and throw his money around. And I turn and I punch Percy in the face.
Matt: Okay! Roll for an attack.
Sam: Oh, shit. Going for another one. A nine. Probably not.
Matt: Plus your strength modifier.
Sam: I don't have any strength. One, so that's ten.
Matt: Ten. Percy, do you take it?
Taliesin: Yes, I take it.
Matt: Okay. Whack! A solid hit across the face. You have to lean into it and make it look more impactful than it really is.
Taliesin: (overly dramatic) Oh!
Sam: And then I turn around, and I punch a guard.
Laura: Oh my god.
Taliesin: Where are you going with this?
Matt: Roll another attack.
Sam: 13.
Matt: 13. You whirl around, and one of the guards is rushing forward to try and break this up, and as you swing towards him, your fist collides with the side of his helmet. It definitely shakes him for a second. It doesn't do much in the way of damage, but it does kind of hurt your knuckles a little bit. Now the guard's like, (startled sound) and stumbles back a bit.
Sam: I've just had enough with all of you people. We performers demand respect and deserve it as well.
Matt: The warden's now stepped forward and put his hand on the side of his blade and says, "Am I to understand you walked in here and immediately struck a guard of the stockade?"
Sam: I've just had it up to here with being bossed around by people like him.
Matt: "Well, would it make you feel better if he's thrown in prison?"
Sam: It would.
Taliesin: It would make me feel better if he was thrown in prison.
Matt: "Oh, don't worry. You'll both be going."
Marisha: About this time, I come over the earpiece and I go, how's it going in there, guys?
Sam: Great.
Taliesin: Great. Everything's fine. (laughter)
Marisha: Good. Just let me know if you need me.
Matt: He looks to the side and two guards now, one of the ones that punched you and another one to the side both step up and are reaching--
Taliesin: Won't it be unfortunate when you find out I have diplomatic immunity?
Sam: Diplomatic immunity.
Matt: You both have been manhandled and brought your hands behind. You feel manacles being pulled forth, and the warden's just looking down upon both of you.
Taliesin: I blame you for this.
Sam: You should blame me for this. I'm sorry. I just had a really shitty day, all right? He doesn't deserve this. Let him go. Just take me.
Matt: "Very well. Now." And you feel the release as the manacles come away. You are escorted out of the room. You are put in shackles, brought, and thrown into the same jail cell as Kaylie.
Taliesin: All right. How much to get both of them out?
Matt: As you're being pushed out?
Taliesin: Yeah. I'll bring it.
Matt: There's no answer at the moment. The doors close behind you, and you're thrust off of four steps. Make an acrobatics check.
Marisha: They were tossing your ass out.
Taliesin: 23.
Matt: All right. You manage to catch yourself with a small tumble over the shoulder, land Willy Wonka-style, well stuck. As you're thrown, you hit the ground. You can see off in the corner of the cell, Kaylie, arms crossed, sitting on the ground. She leans forward a little bit, and you can see the light hits the side of her face, and she has a bit of a welt there and a bit of a black eye, but she doesn't look too worse for wear.
Taliesin: Now for the love of God, just wait until nightfall and Dimension Door out of there.
Sam: Did I hear that?
Matt: Yeah, you'd hear that.
Sam: Good idea. Thanks, Percy, for your help.
Taliesin: You're welcome. Wait until nightfall.
Sam: Huh? Oh. All right.
Matt: As she leans forward, she goes, "Huh. Like father, like daughter, aye?"
Sam: You could say so. I heard you had quite a night last night at the bar.
Matt: "Hm. Felt good. I like breaking faces."
Sam: Apparently you're very good at it. I saw-- I got a glimpse of your victims over there.
Matt: (laughs) "They had it coming. Don't know why, but I had a feeling somewhere in their life, they probably deserved it. Most men do."
Sam: Yep, you're right about that. Stay away from all men. Forever.
Matt: "They were fuckwits. Their faces were so punchable."
Sam: I know that feeling. Listen, I've come to get you out of here.
Matt: (laughs) "Apparently you've not done that very well."
Sam: Don't worry. I've still got some tricks up my sleeve. Just wanted to make sure you're all right. Did they hurt you in any way?
Matt: "Only one person's really hurt me recently."
Liam: Cold as ice.
Matt: "Look, Scanlan. Father. I spent a lifetime hating you. I'd imagined the moment we would finally meet for so long, planned it out in my head, had it all worked out. My idea of you, what you'd be like, what you'd say, and you know what? Up until last night, I was pretty spot-on. I don't know what I wanted. I have a lot to process, to think about. But I'd prefer not to do it in this dank cell, so if you have a way out, please, now's the time to do it."
Sam: You think now? All right, is anyone watching?
Matt: There are two guards that are not watching directly, but they're muscled up against the bars and keeping an eye over the shoulder.
Sam: I'll need a distraction. Do you think you can come up with one?
Matt: Her eyes turn for a second and she goes, (chuckles) "I think that can be done." She leans up to the side of the bar and peeks her head out for a second. Closes her mouth, cups it with her hand, and you start hearing from the opposite side of the room, through arcane ventriloquism, these three different male voices going, "I'll fuck you up!" You hear punches and you hear all of this screaming and chaos. At which point, the two guards look over. One of them gives the other a motion, and they both run off to see the other side of the room. She looks back at you.
Sam: You'll have to teach me that trick. And then I Dimension Door us out onto the street.
Matt: As you reach for her, she still pulls away a little bit, but you still grab hold and (poof) puff of smoke. You guys (magic sound) appear outside, landing a couple of feet above the ground and catch yourselves. You're off to the side of the stockade where it meets with one of the nearby walls. No one seems to immediately notice you, other than a couple of people that are walking down the street that see two individuals appear out of the ether and land onto the ground.
Sam: All right. Let's get out of here. Percy, I didn't wait quite until nightfall.
Taliesin: I assumed you wouldn't. We're already walking back.
Sam: All right, we'll catch up.
Matt: You guys head back towards Greyskull? All right.
Marisha: I'm glad I came in handy for that field trip.
Sam: Oh, shit! Burn it down! Burn the stockades down!
Liam: I'd also like to point out that Grog's single nut-flick did more damage than your two full-on punches. (laughter)
Matt: This is true! All right. Eventually, you guys make your way back. As you do, you gather, and about five minutes behind you, the rest of Dr. Dranzel's troupe arrives, looking a little bit frazzled and a little confused. He steps forward to the rest of you and goes, "I don't know what you did, but there's a manhunt for two gnomes right now over by the Promenade. But good on you. Might want to lay low for a little bit."
Sam: Good thinking.
Taliesin: The troupe may want to get out of town for a bit, as well.
Matt: "I think that's the plan. We were going to stay a few more days-- we had a couple of gigs lined up, but I think we've pressed our luck far enough, so all right! Everyone feeling spectacular?" He claps his hands and the rest of the troupe start grabbing their goods and their instruments and what little cases and bags they do. Kaylie runs off real fast and comes back with her one over-the-shoulder satchel that carries all of her worldly belongings. "Then let us be off." He gives a little tip of the hat to Scanlan with a nod. Looks to the rest of you. "We greatly appreciate your hospitality. We're sorry for any confusion, misunderstandings, and general debauchery. Good night to you all." He turns around and they all start walking out. Kaylie begins stepping and she stops and looks over her shoulder towards you, Scanlan, and says, "Don't come looking for me. When I'm ready, I'll come find you." She turns back around and leaves.
Sam: Oh, shit.
Marisha: I liked them. They were fun.
Travis: Did you tell her you're her dad yet?
Sam: That's not-- She figured it out, Grog.
Travis: That's awkward.
Sam: Yes. Yes, it is.
Laura: They forgot to grab their gold. I like them!
Matt: That they did, actually.
Marisha: Maybe they thought we were even?
Liam: Probably should check the silverware, though, in the keep.
Laura: Oh. I run and check the silverware.
Taliesin: I check to make sure the skull is still there.
Matt: The kitchen is cleaned out.
Laura: No!
Matt: All of the silverware.
Laura: What about Jarett? He was supposed to be keeping an eye on them.
Marisha: Yeah, what the fuck? What's with Jarett?
Matt: Jarett was one man keeping track of multiple people, with one very small, quick child that you were the only one able to keep an eye on.
Laura: I hate your friends!
Marisha: They were good drinking buddies.
Sam: They're all right. They've got their good qualities, too.
Travis: Just the silverware's missing?
Laura: What about our rooms? Is it just the kitchen that's cleaned out, or did they take everything in the keep?
Matt: Oh, no, no, no. None of the rooms have been touched, except for the guest room where some of them were staying.
Laura: There was shit in there, anyway.
Matt: Yeah, there wasn't much in there, but a couple of candlesticks, things that were just decor. Anything that could possibly be hocked for a little bit of change from those rooms is gone.
Laura: They don't know I shopped for everything at Home Goods, so joke's on them.
Matt: You gather probably no more than two to three hundred gold worth of materials were taken in total. That includes fine cookware, that includes decor, that includes a couple of previous art pieces that you had collected--
Taliesin: Please tell me they stole the giant painting.
Sam: It's not here yet.
Taliesin: Damn it!
Matt: It hasn't been delivered yet. That's probably in transit.
Taliesin: No!
Liam: And where would it have been hidden on their person?
Taliesin: They could have rolled it up and stuck it where the sun don't shine.
Marisha: A 20 by six foot canvas?
Taliesin: Some caverns run deep.
Sam: I'm going to check my bed just to see if there's any shit on it.
Matt: You go and inspect pretty extensively. It does not appear that anyone has left you a Scanlan surprise.
Marisha: Percy and I go downstairs to make sure the skull is still there.
Matt: Skull is still in the workshop, yes.
Marisha: Beautiful.
Matt: What do you guys want to do right now?
Taliesin: I'm going to spend some time working on the special barrel and see if I can get that up and running.
Marisha: What time is it?
Matt: At this point, it's closing towards dusk.
Laura: We should heal up and get ready to take this to Whitestone in the morning, yes?
Marisha: I guess so.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: 18? All right. You disassemble elements of the pistol. You get the feeling that the way it's weighted, to attach the hand mortar to the pistol, it's still going to continue to be a very unwieldy thing. You are probably best to design them as separate pieces. Unfortunately, the way the pistol's balanced, for aim and such? The mechanism that's required to lob an object for the mortar to be able to do any help with is going to throw off your ability to aim much with the pistol, going forward. Not to mention increase the misfire score by crazy amounts. But you could create them both separately and swap out as needed.
Taliesin: All right.
Matt: All right. You guys spend the evening. You rest up, you're back to full health, you're good to go. As the morning comes around--
Travis: I have a question.
Matt: Yes?
Travis: Can I wait until everyone goes to bed and can I make my way into Percy's workshop?
Taliesin: It's locked.
Matt: As you get to the workshop, you check the door and it is, indeed, locked.
Marisha: We stashed it.
Travis: What's the door made of?
Matt: It's made of solid metal. It was constructed per specifications to be able to withstand concussive blasts in case of accident from the inside.
Travis: Can I try to pick the lock?
Matt: You have no lockpicks.
Travis: Can I shove an axe in the lock hole?
Matt: You can.
Sam: Clang!
Matt: Make a strength check.
Travis: I have a greatsword that's just a normal greatsword.
Laura: Are you going to try to shove it in the lock?
Travis: Yeah, like a credit card in the side of the thing. Like a crowbar. That was crap.
Matt: What did you roll?
Travis: Ten.
Matt: Ten. In trying to wedge the sword into the side of the door, you eventually feel a shift as you push. You feel it gives way, and you look and withdraw the greatsword, which is now bent at an angle to the side. Yeah, that sword's not going to be functional in combat any further.
Travis: All right, I go to bed.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Nothing good ever happens to you in my workshop. It's just not a good place for you. Too many things.
Matt: All right, so. Morning comes around. You guys come back rested. As you each individually come to consciousness and finding your way down, the first thing you're met by is a very perturbed Laina, who as soon as you come down, says, "I'm terribly sorry. I went to make breakfast, and there's nothing to make breakfast with! I don't know what happened."
Laura: It's okay. Scanlan is going to buy all new stuff for our kitchens.
Sam: I'm supposed to lay low, though.
Laura: Oh, that's okay. You can give her all the gold that she needs to buy new things for the kitchen.
Sam: I have only--
Laura: You have about a thousand gold because I gave it to you.
Sam: I gave 50 to Percy, which you didn't use.
Matt: To buy basic cooking supplies, it wouldn't be more than 30 gold to restock the entire kitchen. It was more other elements of the keep.
Sam: Including the silverware?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Oh, great.
Laura: It wasn't fancy silverware. It was utilitarian.
Matt: It was decent. It was functional. It was included with the keep.
Sam: All right, here's 50. Go get us a decent set of silverware.
Laura: And other things. Or send somebody else, if you'd rather.
Matt: "I'm not much help around here right now, am I? All right." And she runs off, returning a short time later, with groceries, as well, that she found while she was out. Makes a fresh meal for all of you. Partway through breakfast, there is a knock at the edge of the dining hall, and you see Cordell, your half-orc guardian there. Has his big, heavy crossbow at his side. "Sorry to bother you while you're eating. You have a messenger who wishes to speak to you at the front gate."
Laura: I'll go.
Matt: "All right. Follow me."
Sam: Vax never came home last night?
Matt: Did you come home? No? Vax has not showed up yet.
Sam: Should we be worried?
Taliesin: We're going to have to collect him before we go.
Matt: As you go to the gate, it's opened up and you can see there, standing by himself, Seeker Asum. Hood back, bald halfling helm with his tattoos greeting you. He goes, "Hello, Vex."
Laura: Hi.
Matt: "I've come to request your presence at the Precepts Stage within the Cloudtop District near dusk. All of Vox Machina, this evening, if you don't mind."
Laura: Oh. Well, why?
Matt: "Uriel and I have been in extensive discussion these past few days, and the reveal of Riskel's betrayal has had a profound effect on Uriel, and rumors have been spreading amongst the district and the higher order of the city. Uriel is to make a statement regarding it and to prevent any political intrigue will talk to the politically inclined populace first. As members of the council, we would like for you to be there to help us based on the reaction. If you would be so kind?"
Laura: Yes, of course. I'll tell the rest of the group. We were planning on heading out to Whitestone today, but we can put that off if it's very important?
Matt: "It's rather important."
Laura: All right. What were you guys fighting about before? Can you tell me?
Matt: "It's nothing you need to worry about."
Laura: Really? It looked kind of serious.
Matt: "I think tonight's discussion will absolve any questions you have."
Laura: Is anybody in trouble?
Matt: "No. You're fine. You've done nothing."
Laura: Can I insight check him?
Sam: We should torture him to find out.
Taliesin: I'm going to shoot off a limb.
Laura: 23?
Matt: 23? He seems fairly forthright and honest. There is a sense of urgency to him. He's really insisting you guys be there.
Laura: Okay. Well, we will be, then.
Matt: "Wondrous. I will notify the rest of the council. I look forward to seeing you this evening."
Laura: Yes, if you see my brother anywhere, can you send him home?
Matt: "Yeah, I'll keep an eye out. I have a network in the city. I can probably locate him within the hour, if need be."
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: "No worries." He walks away. As he steps away, you look for a second. You glance away and look back, and he's gone.
Laura: He is so sneaky. I need to train with him more.
Taliesin: Like Batman.
Laura: I go back and tell everybody what he just told me.
Sam: Oh my god!
Laura: Right? (laughter)
Taliesin: I suppose we'll have to put it off for a day, then.
Sam: Yes. Is the skull going to be safe here while we're gone?
Taliesin: I think so.
Sam: Can it see inside our keep? Can it channel some beast?
Taliesin: It's locked very far away right now, in a very secure room.
Sam: But not secure magically.
Marisha: Yeah. Percy, maybe me and you should make some reinforcements or something?
Liam: It's just radioactive material in the basement. It's fine.
Sam: What if it's a portal? What if it can send a dragon to us, or a worm or something?
Travis: It did say as long as that house stands, it will be very powerful.
Taliesin: Well, do you think it would be safer somewhere? Do you think there's something you could conjure, perhaps, around it? Or should we move it to another room?
Laura: I feel like your room is very secure.
Taliesin: We could always send it straight away to Whitestone. But...
Marisha: But we'd have to put it with someone else, right?
Taliesin: We'd have to let someone take it to Whitestone. It could be there today. Or we could keep it in my room, or we could move it perhaps into the temple of Sarenrae?
Laura: Maybe... how many times can you use that little tree thing, Keyleth?
Marisha: Once a day.
Laura: Fuck.
Marisha: I know. Or else I would totally run it over and run it back.
Taliesin: Oh. But you can run it over and run back.
Marisha: Oh, if I use your thing?
Sam: If you, if you go there, take the stone from his sister and you can come right back.
Laura: Yeah, take the stone from his sister and come back.
Marisha: I could.
Laura: Let her know it's useless after the one use.
Sam: Well, let's not lie to Percy's sister. (laughs)
Travis: Is it safe in Whitestone? I mean, the temple of Sarenrae is at least here.
Laura: Got a good idea. What if you go, you don't take the skull, you tell Allura what's going on, bring her back with you through the tree!
Sam: We keep summoning Allura to solve our magical problems. We brought her to Whitestone and now we're bringing her back?
Laura: She's really, really smart!
Sam: All right...
Laura: She can go right back, you can send her right back.
Marisha: What if she doesn't come?
Laura: Well, then you come back--
Marisha: I'd be using a 6th-level spell as a glorified messenger? 'Hey, we found a scary skull.'
Sam: Hey, you used it yesterday for no reason, too. (laughter)
Taliesin: Wow! Oh my god.
Travis: (high-pitched) The sickest burn. That's the sickest burn! Oh fuck!
Taliesin: And somehow the coffee has not been poured on your head. That's the greatest magic trick I've seen all night. How are you still dry? It's witchcraft.
Marisha: You know what, Scanlan, why don't you figure out how to get the damn skull back to Whitestone by yourself, how's that?
Taliesin: Why don't we just let it be in the room for now-- Let's let it be in the room for now, nothing happened last night.
Marisha: Nothing happened last night, but it seems like a ticking time bomb.
Taliesin: I'm going down, I have to go get my things anyway, so I'm going to go down. Everything seems fine, doesn't it?
Matt: Untampered, room seems left as it was.
Laura: It doesn't seem tampered with at all, the door?
Taliesin: The door is steel reinforced, lined and bolted to the wall; it's not going anywhere. This room is designed to explode.
Marisha: I mean, I could-- all right.
Laura: Maybe we should make sure there's, like, fabric over it.
Taliesin: It's hidden in the room.
Travis: Maybe we should go in and check on it.
Marisha: I could Wall Of Stone another kind of box around it.
Taliesin: I go into the room, I shut the door behind me. I check my hiding place.
Matt: Untouched.
Taliesin: And it's untouched and perfectly reasonable. I return it to my hiding place. Which, if I have to reveal it later, I will happily tell you where it's hidden. Shut and lock the door behind me. Everything's fine.
Travis: That's a relief.
Taliesin: Let's find your brother.
Marisha: All right. I guess we're staying in town.
Sam: We're leaving the skull?
Marisha: Seems okay.
Sam: (laughing) Let's at least post Jarett here.
Marisha: Yeah, let's post someone here, I guess.
Matt: Jarett's already, by the way, off to the side listening to this whole conversation.
Sam: Do you ever sleep, Jarett?
Matt: "I sleep when I'm not needed. But it seems right now I am needed, and I am more than happy to stand guard. It's what you pay me for."
Sam: You're so cool.
Laura: You're seriously the coolest guy.
Marisha: Yeah, you're great.
Matt: "You're being absolutely ridiculous. Continue." (laughter)
Taliesin: If anything strange happens, make note of it.
Matt: "Of course."
Marisha: Don't let anyone in or out.
Taliesin: Well, he can't, he doesn't have the key anyway.
Matt: "No. This is true."
Marisha: I'm just saying.
Matt: "It'll be done."
Marisha: All right.
Matt: "All right."
Marisha: Okay?
Matt: "Okay."
Laura: We need to give him a raise.
Matt: "Yes, you do."
Sam: Why don't you just take it from my money?
Taliesin: I throw ten gold at him right now, just in lieu of-- I throw ten gold.
Matt: "Very generous of you, Percival."
Taliesin: It's the very least.
Matt: And he sets up his chair in the far corner, staring at the door again, and sets his crossbow over his shoulder and just sits waiting.
Taliesin: Let's go find your brother.
Matt: Now, Vax, what are you up to?
Liam: I mean, I'm assuming-- I didn't go there to find anything, but I went just to think, and I didn't see anything by chance, no?
Matt: Nope. You detect no movement inside whatsoever. Dark windows over the course of the evening, no sign.
Liam: All right, well, I guess I'll go back to the keep.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: And I will sit up. No one's there? I'll sit up in my sister's room.
Matt: All right. Well, as you guys are walking back--
Liam: Stealth, please. I'm not walking in the open.
Matt: All right, make a stealth check.
Liam: 27.
Matt: 27? All right. All of you that are out looking for him, make a perception check.
Marisha: 29.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: As you guys spend a good portion of the morning scouting about the usual paths that you take as a group, knowing the back alleys and the various paths that you walk through Emon to ensure that you avoid the main thoroughfares and the most-used walkways, as you're glancing about you see a quick shadow shift past about the size of the individual you are seeking.
Taliesin: (puffs air) Sorry.
Matt: You look over and you see Vax dart off around the corner and dodge down an alleyway.
Marisha: Vax? Vax!
Matt: You faintly hear Keyleth's voice behind you.
Liam: Not now, Kiki. And I just keep going.
Laura: Did you find him?
Marisha: Nope.
Laura: Vax!
Matt: You guys spend the better part of the day searching for him. Asking questions, nobody has an idea. A few individuals try and squeeze some gold out of you. You eventually manage to gather they have no idea what they're talking about. By about early afternoon, two o'clock in the afternoon, you eventually make your way back to the keep, figuring that he'll find his way back if he doesn't want to be found. Upon arrival, the guards also haven't seen him. But once you go up to your room to get into more comfortable attire, your brother is sitting inside your room, waiting.
Laura: Well, there you are. What's going on?
Liam: Look, everything's fine. All right?
Laura: I believe you. Fully.
Liam: Everything's fine. I just don't know what we're doing, anymore.
Laura: What do you mean?
Liam: I don't know what we're doing, I don't know why we're doing it. I don't know! I've just been thinking about it, I mean, what is the point of our lives?
Laura: Well, that's a very deep question.
Liam: Yeah. It's fine, let's go. I don't know what I missed. I can go wherever everybody wants to go.
Laura: No. (sigh) Sit down! Seems like a problem in your mind. Are you mad because we're stealing gold? Are you mad because everybody's running off in directions and you can't keep up? Are you mad because you almost died?
Liam: No. When it was just you and me, I knew what we were doing. We were just trying to survive.
Laura: Right! That's really all we're doing now, just on a grander scale.
Liam: (sighs) We're running into this shit on purpose now. Which is all right, when there's reason. I don't always know why we're doing the things we do. It was fun, breaking into that house. I'm good at it!
Laura: Yes, you are.
Liam: I don't know why we did it! I don't know why I'm working with a large fucking beast of a man who seems to despise me. Day after day.
Laura: He doesn't despise you.
Liam: The fuck he doesn't. I don't know why we're doing it. I don't know why we're with most of these people! And I love these people, but I don't know why we're doing it! And I just want you to think about a little bit too. And I walk out the door.
Laura: I get ready for the evening.
Matt: Okay. As the sun draws across the sky, pushing towards dusk as the light blue begins to turn to a somewhat purplish-orange hue, you all gather your materials, whatever attire you wish to bring, and make your way towards the Cloudtop District. Anyone wish to do anything else?
Liam: I'm going through my vast array of cloaks. (laughter)
Liam: And I'm taking the other one. And putting of all my many two cloaks, I'm going to put the other one on.
Matt: All right.
Sam: Can I swing by Gilmore's and just see if he or-- Sherri works there?
Matt: Sherri works there.
Sam: Sherri works there, if they're around?
Matt: Going to ask. Sherri kinda greets you as you enter and goes, "Hello, Scanlan. Gilmore is back in Westruun, weeks away from opening his new establishment, but can I help you?"
Sam: Two things. One, when he returns, he made me a potion, a while back. I'm running a bit low. It was a scrying sort of thing. When he gets back, maybe he can whip me up another batch for next time I come pay a visit, but also-- oh, yes?
Matt: She puts up her hand for a second and walks off through the beaded curtains in the back, and comes back with Gilmore.
Sam: Oh!
Matt: Gilmore steps forth. "Terribly sorry, Scanlan, trying to keep business right now kind of on the DL. There's a special event tonight." And you see how dressed up he is. "I imagine, being part of the council, you're probably invited too."
Sam: Yes, I was just going there now.
Matt: "Oh, well, I'll accompany you!"
Sam: All right, we'll save business for another day.
Matt: "Well, what business did you have?"
Sam: I just wondered-- I may want to try to find someone at some point tonight. I don't know how.
Matt: "Hmm, scrying. We've had this conversation before."
Sam: Yes, but a different sort, a less fecal sort.
Matt: "Not going to lie, I'm very glad to hear that."
Liam: Fecal matters.
Sam: I don't know how to scry, I don't know how to find someone or what I need. I may have a hair strand or two, but I don't have much to go on.
Matt: "That should be plenty. If I can't help you, I know a few that might be able to."
Sam: All right.
Matt: "But! Nevertheless." And he adjusts his collar and he's very, very well dressed in his long, deep navy robes, a high collar that nips at the side of his neck. "Shall we?"
Sam: Absolutely. You lead!
Matt: He leads you out towards the Cloudtop.
Travis: Could I have also gone to Gilmore's?
Matt: If you'd like to.
Sam: Oh! Oh, Grog! Oh, Jesus!
Travis: No no no, just, we go in together and when he's talking to Gilmore, I find one of the lesser clerks and I say: Do you sell lockpicks here?
Matt: The other clerk is probably a new hire, you haven't seen him here before. Young, early 20s, very, very thin hair, kind of waify. "Lockpicks? This isn't--"
Travis: Yeah, you know. I keep locking myself in the shitter and I'm really tired of asking people to come let me out. It's really--
Matt: "I wish I could help. Those are outlawed, I'm sorry. That's not really--"
Travis: Look, I've got these huge clumsy-fuck hands. Is there anything you could give me, maybe magical, that would just keep me from being embarrassed in front of my friends? It smells so bad and then they all come and the door opens and it's just awful!
Matt: As you're getting closer and closer to him, this, looming goliath who's feigning fear and worry in his face, the guy just retracts. "I'm sorry! I don't-- We're closing shop!"
Travis: No, do you have like a wand or a potion or like, a thing--
Matt: "Good night!" And he runs up the stairs to the second floor.
Travis: Fucking shit. (laughter)
Travis: Lovely goods you have here. I'll let myself out.
Matt: "We'll come with you don't worry!" He puts his other arm out.
Travis: All right.
Matt: The three of you arm in arm.
Liam: He's currently like this.
Matt: Yeah! He's, like, lifted.
Sam: It's the Wizard of Oz!
Matt: Yeah! You skip along, the rest of you make your way to the Cloudtop, and you make your way around the stage and it's against the wall, near one of the entrances to the Cloudtop, but on the interior. And you can see there is a rather large stage up against the wall. There is already a crowd gathered. You see merchants, highborn families, political guests, upper-station military, a number of well-dressed representatives from all over Emon have gathered for this. You guys meet up with the rest of the group and you kind of, you know, gravitate. Gilmore gives everyone a quick wave and gives you a respectful nod. "Aha! Yes!" and he wanders off and starts mingling with some of the other guests. Just as the sun vanishes beneath the distant horizon, a procession of palace guards approach the area, the crowd parting, as Uriel arrives with the escort, flanked by his family, and the current inner council of Tal'Dorei with Arbiter Brom, Seeker Asum, Tofor Brotorus. Allura is absent of course, for being in Whitestone. They all step onto the stage along with the guards as well, as cheers and light applause begins to break out. Not crazy go wild, but just like (muted) "Hooray."
Marisha: Rich people clapping, sure.
Matt: Yeah, you know.
Matt: Guards have already set up a few chairs on the stage. Uriel begins to sit on one as his family gathers behind it, and he puts his hand out and motions to everybody to go ahead and hush down. As he does, he stands up from his chair. "Friends and family. Allies of this fair city of Emon. Houses-in-arms to the Tal'Dorei family. Guests, guardians and law-keepers alike. I thank you for coming on such short notice. Now, it has not escaped me that talk spreads quickly within these walls, and rumors only seek to undermine trust. It is true Lord Riskel Daxio, honored member of our council and overseer of development within Emon for many years, has unfortunately passed away. We mourn our friend, and ask you all to respect his legacy enough to not to smear his name. That being said, this was just one of many hardships that has befallen our council and my family this past year. Many that have left me with a terrible burden. We've been faced with deceit, and I failed to see it. We've been beset with allies in need, and I have been noncommittal in aiding them. We've been clouded by demonic powers, and I've failed to protect my family. And my responsibility to all of you. I look back at my bloodline, at my father and his father before him, and I plainly see what I am not. These times are different. This wonderful city has grown these past centuries into something grand: a beacon of civilization, here in these lands that my ancestors gave name to. My family has built us up, and I feel that there is little more my family can accomplish for the greatness of these lands. It has outgrown our meager guidance. I did not choose to be your sovereign; it was by blood that I came into this. And I did my very, very best to live up to your expectations. I can see the future of you all and I wish to safeguard it, by leaving it not in one hand, but the hands of many. As of the end of this week, I will be stepping down as your sovereign. The Tal'Dorei bloodline will no longer hold the fate of this realm. We will instead leave the council to rule." And he looks about at the other council members, on out to you, out to the rest of the group. "There will be a chosen few, exemplary members of our society, who will step up and aid in this task, and join the council as well. You, the peoples of Emon, will be the ones to guide us to a new age of prosperity." At this point now the claps come in again and some cheers happen. There's a little bit of confusion in the crowd, but for the most part everyone seems to be into it. At this moment, one of the guards hurries up the side of the stage and, you notice, whispers something into Asum's ear, who leans over and gives a nod and worried expression. Vex.
Laura: (giggles) Yay!
Sam: (radio DJ voice) Don't forget to subscribe to Geek and Sundry, so you can see archives of the show and many others! I don't even know--
Laura: Wait.
Travis: It's hard, right? When one ear's in and one ear's out, it's tough. I was trying to plug it.
Sam: Remember, Liam doesn't really hate Travis in real life! (laughter)
Laura: Wait, wait. As soon as I notice that, I touch Grog and Vax's shoulders and I point up really fast.
Matt: You look up and-- you guys all gather this as well. You can see, piercing out of some of the cloud cover above, what looks to be two fast-moving streaks of color, black and red. They just-- (whoosh). And then you can't see them any more.
Laura: Could I tell from my favored enemy-ness that it was dragons?
Matt: You can make a hefty perception check if you like to see exactly how much detail you can make out.
Travis: Can I look up, too?
Matt: No. I'm giving her this because of her really high perception.
Laura: No, that was wrong. 23.
Matt: 23. It's hard to make out details from this distance. They're moving quick.
Laura: One black and one red?
Matt: Uriel now goes, "I am beyond confident that all doubts in the capabilities of those I leave the city to, and more--" And it's at this point you start hearing bells going off around the city. Tops of walls in the distance. You recognize these. These are warning bells. At which point the crowd starts murmuring and getting nervous, and Uriel puts his hand out. "Please, please. I--"
Laura: Can I use my Primeval Awareness to see if it's actually dragons close by?
Matt: Okay. You begin to concentrate on that for the moment. Asum now steps up and says, "Everyone, if I might ask you to all quickly make your way to your respective homes. There is a small emergency we must attend to." At this point, you guys hear this (whoosh) sound and you turn around just in time to see what looks to be a large, larger than you've seen before, white dragon just slam into the side of Allura's tower in the distance. Claws clunk into the side, digging into the stonework, wings unfurled, it looks into the upper window of where her actual parlor is and peeks in for a second before just unleashing a blast of icy cold magical breath into the inside of the tower. You can see now, screams start tearing around you as the guards start getting their weapons ready. At which point, the dragon pulls its head back and looks about at everyone screaming, and pushes off the tower. As it does you see the stonework crack, and the top of Allura's tower shatter--
Laura: Oh, my god!
Matt: -- and then begin to collapse, smashing into the city streets around you. At which point, the dragon (wingbeats) and takes off again above you. At this point in time: utter chaos has been unleashed, and you can see now the guards are rushing Uriel off the table. You guys are there caught amongst this chaos. At this very moment, as the white dragon heads deeper into the city, you hear a loud impact that silences the chaotic air around you, as the wall that the stage is buttressed up against now has perched above it an enormous vision of death: a grinning ancient green dragon. Its wings are curled around its form as it looks down at the rest of you in the middle of this open space and goes, "Delicious cattle. Raishan enjoys the taste of fear."
Laura: Raishan?
Marisha: Raishan?
Matt: At which point it leaps down onto the stage, crushing part of it. I would like you all to roll initiative.
Marisha: No, what?!
Sam: We can't fight four dragons. Can we?
Marisha: Wait, did you say four? He didn't say four.
Laura: There's a red and a black, a white and a green.
Sam: There's a red and a black, a white and a green.
Travis: Are the red and black dragons?
Laura: They were red and black-- of course they were fucking dragons!
Travis: You're sure?
Laura: Everything else was dragons; why wouldn't it be dragons?
Taliesin: For the love of God and all that is holy.
Marisha: Oh Jesus Christ, Taliesin.
Laura: Are we fighting something now?
Marisha: Are we just fighting one?
Sam: Oh, hi, dragon!
Laura: Oh, hi, dragon, you're my favourite customer.
Matt: Grog and Vex were there. Percy was here. Pike was here.
Sam: Don't worry, I'll kill it with music.
Marisha: Holy balls!
Matt: And this is the chaotic pattern of individuals amongst here.
Sam: My god, look at all those fuckers!
Matt: All right! Now, if I could go ahead and have the initiative scores from you guys. 25 to 20?
Travis: 20 again.
Matt: Anybody else? All right. Okay. 20 to 15?
Liam: 15 again.
Marisha: 15 as well.
Matt: All right. Ten to five?
Laura: 14.
Matt: Oh, 14, sorry. 14.
Sam: 13.
Matt: Scanlan, Pike is after you. Percy, what did you get?
Taliesin: Nine.
Matt: All right.
Laura: The castle looks really badass. It's just off of camera.
Matt: Is it? Let me see if I can scoot this forward a little bit for you guys. Now. Top of the round, Grog you're up.
Laura: Are we really fighting this right now?
Matt: Right there. You're right there, where the red base is.
Laura: What's happening?
Marisha: I dunno, what the fuck do we do?
Travis: Well, I only do one thing-- (yelling) I go into a rage! And a frenzied rage! And I take out Craven Edge, and I say, how do you feel about dragon?
Matt: "I think it sounds delicious; let's try a taste."
Travis: (laughs) Great Weapon Master-- I run up to the dragon and hack away!
Matt: All right, make your strikes.
Travis: All right, fucking hell, where's that son of a bitch? 19.
Matt: 19 misses.
Sam: 19 misses?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Everybody hear that?
Marisha: Dragon.
Travis: 22.
Matt: Just barely hits.
Marisha: It has an AC of 22. It's some bullshit.
Travis: (mutters) That'll miss.
Sam: Wait, how do I do anything to it?
Matt: Vex, you are familiar with dragons, as one of your enemies. Only the most ancient and powerful of dragons ever reach this size. Chromatic dragons are very selfish entities and do not usually work with individuals of other color patterns. The fact that this is this coordinated between multiple is a very, very bad sign. You're suddenly brought back to a singular moment in your past when you recall seeing four orbs embedded in a wall.
Laura: Yeah, no, I think we-- We brought this on ourselves.
Liam: Chickens come home to roost.
Matt: So, Grog, damage on the one strike?
Travis: Just on the one. Oh, yeah right, I'm sorry I was so caught up in the fact that I'm just literally going up against death incarnate-- hey!
Marisha: We had no fucking reason to go into that basement.
Travis: 19.
Matt: 19? Okay, 19 damage, good to know. All right, that ends your turn. First, it is Raishan. Raishan-- (roars). As you can see now, this burbling cloud of greenish black fume just spills out of its open jaws, outward towards the crowd.
Laura: Jesus!
Matt: All right.
Sam: Jesus Crit!
Matt: I need Grog, Vex, Pike, and Vax, and Percy to all make a constitution saving throw.
Marisha: Am I in there as well?
Sam: I was in there as well, I think.
Matt: You were as well, yeah. You guys were as well. So all-- Yep. Pretty much everyone but-- heh-- everyone but Trinket, probably for the best.
Travis: Ten plus eight is 18.
Sam: This is a constitution saving throw?
Matt: Correct.
Sam: Can I use Cutting Words on this? Is this a magical effect? No, wait.
Matt: No this isn't a saving throw thing. It just happens.
Sam: Oof!
Laura: Bad?
Sam: Oh yeah! (laughs)
Sam: Five.
Taliesin: 14 with resolve.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Seven.
Liam: 14.
Laura: 20.
Travis: 18.
Matt: Okay. All of you take 66 points of poison damage, as you feel your lungs and your outer flesh begin to burn and curl.
Laura: 20 didn't save?
Matt: Nope. The rest of the crowd around you screams out in horrible pain as the rest of them gasp and fall to the ground.
Marisha: Holy fuck, he just took out the entire council.
Travis: If I had resistance to poison damage because of the Belt of Dwarvenkind, is that halved?
Matt: You take that halved, yes. You take only 33.
Travis: Oh, fuck me. I'm like, I can't remember-- I can't remember what I'm trying to do. We got to go!
Matt: Actually, before your turn is over, the dragon (whoosh) repositions itself for the rest of the crowd over there. You get an attack of opportunity against it, if you want.
Travis: Oh hey, awesome. That's a 19.
Matt: 19? That does not hit. You go to strike-- it's already out of the way and you find yourself even amongst your rage shaken by this, as you look around for the first time and realize that the crowds of people that were around you are now face down, unmoving on the ground, amongst the open space. As it steps across the wood as it lands, ruining the last bit of stage and landing on the opposite side, Keyleth, it's your turn.
Marisha: Are there any trees nearby?
Travis: Wouldn't mind turning into that mist right now.
Marisha: No shit-- I didn't learn it! Go ahead.
Matt: There is a tree. There's a tree about 100 feet in that direction.
Marisha: 100 feet?!
Laura: Or go inside.
Marisha: All right, everyone's around me, more or less?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: I slam my staff on the ground and I cast Anti-Life Shell and I say, (shouts) everyone in the shell-- we're running!
Matt: Okay. How big is the radius of the shell?
Marisha: It's not that big. It's ten feet radius, so you guys are going to have to get close to me.
Marisha: Ten feet.
Liam: That's enough for all of us.
Marisha: That's enough for all of us if we gather.
Matt: That's your radius there.
Sam: I'm right there already!
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Pike and Scanlan are in it, everyone else needs to get close.
Matt: Yep, all right, and you're going to stay there? Wait for everyone to gather to you, or are you just going to run and everyone else has to catch up? Which, if everyone else makes a dash movement, they could probably get to you next round.
Travis: Yeah, just go.
Marisha: All right, yeah, I'll do like 20 feet, not my full 30 but enough to where people-- no, fuck it, I'll do 30 feet.
Matt: Okay, so you're 30 feet up to the edge there. All right, that ends your turn. Vax.
Liam: I click my boots, and I-- Shit, where is everybody?
Laura: Running towards Keyleth.
Liam: I yank Trinket by the fur on his butt and say, come on Trinket! And then start running backwards and grabbing at my sister's cloak as I go towards Keyleth.
Matt: Okay, with the boots of haste you get up within this area pretty easy. Trinket turns and sees you run and looks over towards you, which, it's your next turn.
Laura: Okay. I don't know why we're not running inside, instead of away. Are we running?
Marisha: We're running to the tree. So we can Transport Via Plants, was the thought.
Laura: Got it. Okay, I'm going to shout out in Draconic, and I'm going to say: Raishan! Is that his name?
Matt: Raishan is what it seemed to refer to itself as.
Laura: Raishan!
Marisha: You got it, you got it!
Laura: So sorry for whatever pissed you off so bad--
Sam: All right, you had it.
Laura: Your fight's with us, not with this city. Leave the townspeople alone. And I take off
Matt: Okay. I imagine you tell Trinket to do the same?
Laura: Yeah, yeah, of course.
Matt: So you rush up. Trinket comes and gathers off to the side there--
Marisha: He's going to kill us, yeah.
Laura: Oh! Oh! Can I cast something?
Matt: We'll say, you are now there, for those who want to see there, technically, there off to the side.
Laura: Can I cast something?
Matt: To get over there would take both-- it would take a dash action, so, no. Unless it's a bonus action, then you could've, like Hunter's Mark if you want to do something like that.
Laura: I guess I'll do Hunter's Mark on him. I was going to do Protection From Poison, so I might not full dash.
Matt: Yeah, we'll say-- up to you.
Marisha: Is that a radius thing or just for yourself?
Matt: What do you want to do? Hunter's Mark?
Laura: I'll Hunter's Mark. I'll just dash. I'm just stupid.
Liam: Matt, probably too late, but can I retcon-- say I'm holding my attack, since I didn't do anything? Fine if not, I just thought--
Matt: With the haste you could've gotten there. I'd say sure. So we'll let you have it. All right, holding your attack for what?
Liam: If it bears down on us.
Matt: Okay. Scanlan.
Sam: Me? I'm going to--
Laura: (gasps) What about Gilmore!? Where is he? He was right next to us.
Matt: I know.
Travis: Just keep-- it's not about Gilmore right now-- it's Scanlan's turn.
Sam: Where is he?
Matt: You can make a perception check.
Sam: 12.
Matt: 12? You don't see Gilmore anywhere. You look about the bodies. You know the color of his robe, but you don't see it anywhere on the ground. In the chaos you really have no idea where he is.
Sam: Okay, I will-- (sings) Bigby's Hand! Shamone! I will Bigby's Hand and put it right in front of him and-- wow, it's so tiny compared to him! (laughter)
Sam: I will use it as a Interposing Hand, blocking him from approaching us. And I will use my movement to climb into the circle of good.
Matt: Okay, you can get there. Okay, that ends your turn.
Sam: And I'll-- shit.
Matt: Want to inspire somebody?
Sam: I guess, I mean, who's near him? Just Grog right?
Matt: Right now, it's Grog, Percy and Pike are all still out right now.
Sam: They'll get away right, they're going to run? You're going to run, right? They'll be fine. All right. I'll inspire Grog by saying, you're a magnificent, handsome bastard, don't die!
Matt: All right. You take a d10 inspiration die.
Travis: Thank you.
Matt: Pike is going to rush right here and is going to attempt to cast Mass Cure Wounds. Mass Cure Wounds as a 6th-level spell, so that's 4d8 plus five. Six creatures in a 30 foot radius. So that'll be-- all of you. She's not going to do it to herself. Or, she can't do it to Grog, so she can get--
Sam: Grog, did you get hit?
Matt: She can get everyone but Trinket, but Trinket seems fine, so-- that is seven, eight, 12, 15 plus five-- 20 points healed to all of you guys.
Sam: Great, that'll help.
Matt: Except for Grog. That's going to be her turn, and she just moves into the circle there with the rest of her movement. That brings us to Percy.
Taliesin: I'm going to look for Gilmore.
Matt: Perception check.
Taliesin: What!
Laura: What happened to you, Percy?
Taliesin: I don't know. Nine.
Matt: In this chaos, you have no idea where he is, unfortunately.
Taliesin: I'm going to hold my attack for if the dragon comes towards us and I'm going to run into the--
Matt: You rush in. all right, at the end of your turn, all the rest of these guys just go running. Running as far away as possible, getting up, going at full sprint all over. The guards are trying to usher people out of the way. You have crying mothers who can't find their kid--
Laura: Oh god.
Matt: You have absolute chaos, and at this point your hear in the distance a large explosion, as you see a rolling cloud of fire rise up in the distance over the mountain and the rest of regular Emon, surrounding the Cloudtop District. This guy over here's going to run as well. Beginning of that turn, Grog you're up.
Travis: I'm booking ass.
Matt: Okay, with a dash you get over to there.
Sam: Don't worry, my magical hand is there. (laughs)
Matt: Raishan now is going to move over here.
Sam: Hey, but, I try to stop him!
Matt: The hand is going to try to--
Sam: Got a strength of 26.
Marisha: That's awesome.
Matt: Interposing Hand just gives you cover against the target, and it can't move the hand's space if its strength is four, so it's not going to move through the space, it's going to try and move to the side. So instead of going after you guys, the hand just moves with it and keeps it in between, but it stays approximately here. It then blows towards this crowd here, just catching Grog in the corner. So Grog, I need you to make another constitution save.
Sam: With inspiration.
Matt: With inspiration, if you'd like, if you need it.
Travis: (mutters) I'm okay. 26.
Matt: 26. You succeed, so you take we'll say 33 points of poison damage, halved, to 17. All right. The rest of these guys except for-- Oh, no, Grog, no! Grog, no! Those guys all survive, though they're coughing and trying to get away. This brings us to end of his turn. At this point in time you look up and see (whoosh whoosh) another set of wings come slamming down onto this side.
Travis: Holy shit, look at the size of that thing. What the hell?
Sam: (laughing) What is that thing?
Matt: As it lands, it looks down at the group and then runs up the side of a building's rooftop up here.
Marisha: Oh, Jesus Christ!
Laura: So we're totally getting in the tree, I know it, we're going to make it.
Sam: (laughs) The tree has been evaporated.
Matt: So, the rest of you guys, are you all moving as a group forward?
Sam: Oh, hells yes!
Matt: Okay, you all go rushing-- You all go dashing forward. At full speed, aside from Vax, who can get to the tree this turn, the rest of you are going to get halfway there.
Marisha: Fuck!
Matt: So we'll say for the purposes of this movement, we'll move it backward.
Marisha: There's not a closer bush? Nothing closer we can jump in?
Matt: No, not currently. the closest large enough plant to use this ability--
Sam: Me and Pike get there, because I Dimension Door us.
Matt: Okay. Actually, technically Grog can get there too, and Vax and Pike and Scanlan. You guys all get there. The rest of you are all inside the Anti-Life Shell as you're running.
Liam: I'm not going to leave the group, I'm going to pace with them.
Matt: As you're pushing forward, the large black dragon is just toying with you-- it's climbing across the rooftops, and just watching you as you run, and you hear it chuckling under its breath-- (menacing chuckle, whoosh, impact).
Taliesin: Okay, is he taking to the air?
Matt: He takes to the air and jumps to another rooftop.
Taliesin: I'm going to try as I'm running-- do I have enough time to try and take a shot?
Matt: You can, yeah.
Taliesin: Am I going to be able to keep up with he group?
Matt: Probably not.
Taliesin: Never mind. Damn it, never mind.
Matt: So you're like, "shit," and you just keep running. It now jumped over onto this rooftop and Raishan has moved up toward the center and making its way towards you. At this moment, another burst of fire over the wall much closer goes (boom) and swooping out of it, out of the flames, you see the largest red dragon you've ever experienced come swooshing through the flames, rises up past. The two other dragons almost lower their heads as it passes over.
Sam: Maybe they just want their gold back?
Matt: (whoosh) It swoops past without even noticing you all, slams onto the top of the palace, causing part of the entire throne room glass-domed structure to (shattering noise) shatter and break inward before it turns around and plants itself outward. You've seen ancient dragons-- this is large for an ancient dragon. In fact, by its sheer size, you feel like you may have have encountered this individual before when you were passing through the plane of fire.
Laura: That fuck that was like the biggest dragon ever ever?
Sam: I don't remember that.
Marisha: They guy we missed because we laid low from him and he flew over and we were like: 'don't move,' and we missed him?
Matt: As it lands, the two other dragons take a step back and recoil and snarl and you hear this voice come just tearing through the center of the Cloudtop District, saying, "Move on, Umbrasyl. I claim this as my domain now. The rest of you have a task to complete. Go! I shall remain and set a new dominion of the Chroma Conclave."
Sam: (whispering) Chroma Conclave, that's so cool!
Matt: At which point the two other dragons snap at each other and they both-- the black one just takes off in this distance. The green dragon stalks for a second and then (snarls) angrily turns around and climbs back onto the top of the wall and then flies off into the distance as well, both of them heading westward.
Laura: West.
Sam: Oh, we're okay! Hey guys, it's fine.
Matt: You watch as they curve around and start heading east.
Laura: East?
Matt: At this point, you guys have now reached the outskirts of the tree and you can see now this large red dragon has planted itself--
Laura: He died! He died!
Matt: He's fine, he flew off, it's fine. Just begins breathing flames into the center of the Cloudtop. As you can briefly see javelins being thrown, bolts being shot, and you hear a wave of screams in the distance as it rains death through the center of Emon. You're at the tree, Keyleth. Where are you going? Where are you going?
Marisha: Where are we going, what are we doing? Do we want go back to the keep?
Marisha: What do we do?
Laura: To the keep. Get underground.
Travis: We need that skull.
Marisha: What?!
Travis: The skull grants a wish.
Marisha: Grog!
Sam: Just get to the keep-- we can talk about it there.
Marisha: I cast Transport Via Plants on the fucking tree!
Matt: The tree-- opens up and a small oval, almond-shaped portal and you can see, it's in the intensity, it's partially unstable but it's keeping itself clean. You guys each dive in as the Anti-Life shell vanishes.
Laura: I shout  Gilmore! Before I go though.
Matt: Okay, and you come leaping through the center of the tree as it closed behind you. And we're going to end tonight's session on that point!
Liam: Thought we were going to be starting a brand-new Shadowrun campaign next week!
Sam: You know, maybe the warden of that jail was a dragon! And he invited his friends to find us.
Laura: Did this all happen because we went back to General Krieg's place? Did we kill the entire city because we went back to General Krieg's place?
Sam: But think of the 4,000 gold we got! (laughs)
Laura: Or maybe this was a long time coming and it just happened to time up.
Sam: We'll find out.
Marisha: I'm hoping it's the first, I'm hoping it's the first.
Matt: We shall see if all of these interests come to reveal themselves in the future--
Liam: That was frightening, man.
Matt: -- for future episodes of Critical Role.
Marisha: What did we do?
Travis: You just massacred people. You just committed genocide.
Matt: I just destroyed something that I built. It's a really weird feeling.
Laura: You destroyed your whole city, Matt.
Marisha: The whole city, everyone's dead.
Travis: Well done!
Sam: Not everyone, just a couple of dozen people. And Gilmore.
Laura: This is Act Two of the game, of the video game that you're playing.
Marisha: Holy fuck.
Matt: So with that, folks, as it closes on 11 o'clock, we have to get ourselves a rest for the evening. We hope you've enjoyed tonight's game. I forgot to announce earlier because I was feeling all tense and-- yeah-- but we have a winner of our initial drawing.
Taliesin: It was a thing, wasn't it?
Matt: Earl Grey Austin was the winner tonight of our Critical Role package. So congratulations to you, buddy
Taliesin: Someone won tonight! That's so nice.
Laura: Someone won.
Matt: All right, well guys, have a wonderful night, thank you all for watching, we'll see you next Thursday.
Marisha: I'm going to have an aneurysm.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around, roll dice, and play Dungeons and Dragons, while Liam curses at me a few seconds before we start the show to try and throw me off. It's worked once before.
Taliesin: Cock goblins.
Matt: It'll probably work again. (laughs) Welcome to the show. So yeah, for the returning friends, thank you for coming, and for new folks, welcome to the chaos.
Travis: Get the fuck out.
Laura: Don't say that.
Matt: It's already so hostile here tonight. So I guess first and foremost, let's see if we can get through these announcements pretty quick. First and foremost, a reminder, me and Marisha will be in Colorado tomorrow at the Colorado Anime Fest. We'll be guests this weekend there, so if any folks are coming out, we'll look forward to seeing you. We'll be flying over bright and early tomorrow morning. Taliesin, you're also--
Taliesin: I will be in Phoenix, Arizona at the Amazing Comic Con, and if you follow me on Twitter, @executivegoth, I will actually tell you where I will be at the convention at various times.
Matt: So you can stalk him.
Taliesin: You can stalk me. I'll be very stalkable. E-stalk.
Marisha: It's like Santa Tracker, but Taliesin Tracker.
Matt: Yeah. Waldo Tracker. Why has nobody done that yet? Give it some time. Let's see. Also, I guess, tonight we're going to be trying out this new table camera here on the side to give you a separate view of the battle. We can switch around as we're finding our way through the amorphous betterment of our program.
Liam: Can we work in like a Wolf Blizter hologram? Like they have on CNN as well?
Matt: I'll put that on the wish list.
Liam: On the table, next to all the guys.
Matt: Only if it's actually Wolf Blitzer, though. If we can have him running through the battlefield, it'll be great.
Taliesin: Just his head, floating.
Matt: But yeah, so you can head to the Geek and Sundry Amazon wish list, the link should be in the chat, for other things they're looking for to hopefully try and improve this experience and bring it to you guys and be even better going forward. So you can check that out, and this camera's our first leap in that direction, so you can let us know how you think it works and bear with us as we still figure this whole thing out. Let's see. Also, next week, most of us will be at Wizard World Portland. That's our first Wizard World, you can check out the website for information about our events and signings and tickets and stuff like that, so go check it out, please, we look forward to seeing you guys, and we'll see you up in Portland next weekend. What else do we have going on?
Liam: Well, you know, we have an ongoing relationship with Wyrmwood Gaming, which you can find on the internet. They make beautiful boxes for holding dice and stuff, and if you use the code "critrole," "critrole," you will get free shipping. They have all different kinds of woods, they're lovely. And then also, hey, this is an impromptu announcement, but Kurtis Wiebe just announced on the Twitters, Kurtis Wiebe is the writer for the comic book Rat Queens.
Laura: Amazing.
Liam: We all are addicted to it. He works with Tess Fowler, who's the artist right now, and basically their outfit and our outfit are in love, and Kurtis announced on Twitter today that he is going to be shoving Vox Machina in there in some way, somehow, and we're very excited.
Laura: We're making a cameo appearance in Rat Queens, you guys!
Taliesin: Our first cameo.
Sam: I want to be the rat!
Matt: (laughs) You would, wouldn't you? So stupid excited for that. Can't even. I can't even. It's so dumb. So dumb. Life is dumb. Life is dumb. But yeah. So, we got that going on. I can't think of anything else. If anything else comes up, we'll throw it in there in the mid-break, but in the meantime--
Sam: Oh yeah, I want to give a quick shout-out to my charity of choice, the Pablove Foundation.
Matt: Yes!
Sam: I talked to them today. Their minds were blown by all the gifts that people have sent in and donations in the name of Critical Role and the Critter community. They didn't quite understand what the Critter community was, but I enlightened them, and they're so jazzed by you guys. And they appreciate not just the donations and gifts, but also, they said that the Critters have been writing long letters and telling great stories and stuff, and they're super excited.
Marisha: That's awesome!
Sam: So keep it going to those charities. The Pablove Foundation.
Marisha: Yeah, should we go off and do a shout-out of each of our charities?
Matt: Sure, go for it.
Taliesin: First Place for Youth. I'll have a link up to my Twitter in about five minutes. They help kids get through school, they help kids who are orphaned and having issues get their stuff together and become fabulous teenagers like we need in this world.
Marisha: We do. And of course, Sam is with Pablove Foundation.
Sam: The Pablove Foundation.
Marisha: Pablove Foundation, which is amazing. I chose the Nature Conservancy. They're great and they protect the lands and the animals that is very important so we can keep having a beautiful green world.
Liam: I chose the Planetary Society, just in case the green world dies, and it promotes exploration of space, and the stuff like that.
Laura: I chose My Friend's Place, which is an awesome, very similar to Taliesin's, it's an awesome place for teenagers that are runaways or living on the streets. It gives them a place that they can crash and really help get their stuff together.
Matt: 'Sup, Jewel-face?
Travis: I am the Vision. (laughter)
Matt: Donate to the Vision.
Travis: Yes, I have Operation Supply Drop, which is a great charity service that delivers fun where there is none to soldiers that are in combat overseas. It delivers gaming systems, games, brings some much-needed levity to areas of high intensity and overall warrior badassmanship, and I'm very proud of that.
Liam: What a variety of charities.
Marisha: Yeah, that's a good stretch of charities.
Matt: My charity.
Marisha: Oh, yeah.
Sam: Oh, yeah.
Matt: I got one too, guys!
Marisha: Sorry. I sometimes forget about you, because you're on that side.
Matt: I know, it happens.
Liam: You're god!
Matt: Hey, no, overlooked my entire life, it's nothing new. My charity is First Book, which brings reading materials to underprivileged children and helps people become more confident readers and youth that don't have access to programs to help promote literary adventure and really delving into the amazing thing that is reading. Thank you guys for helping us support that, it's been really fantastic.
Marisha: All things that are important for the future.
Matt: So important. More than you'd give it credit for. Yes.
Marisha: And of course, as always, Critical Role always supports 826LA.
Laura: Yes, continually.
Marisha: Continually. They are our sponsored charity of choice, and of course look up 826, there might be an 826 in your area. And you should go to their storefronts. They make great date locations, as Taliesin always says.
Taliesin: Yes, great date.
Laura: Oh, they really do, that is a really good place.
Matt: Find a date. Take them there.
Marisha: Find the date first.
Matt: Tell them Critical Role sent you.
Marisha: Don't try and find dates at 826. That gets-- that's bad. (laughter)
Taliesin: Wow, you took that to a dark place. You took that--
Matt: Anyway. So. So. Let us go ahead and delve into tonight's game proper, folks. So, to get you up to speed, Vox Machina, the intrepid band of adventurers you see before you, after a series of adventures, had found their way back to their central city of Emon, in the center of the region of Tal'Dorei. After a ceremony in which the leader of their city, Sovereign Uriel Tal'Dorei, was announcing him stepping down, the town was suddenly under siege by a group of extremely powerful and dangerous ancient dragons that call themselves the Chroma Conclave. After tearing the city asunder in many places, three of them flew off into the east under the instruction of the fourth and possibly largest and leader of the group, that has recently been found to be called Thordak the Cinder King, who currently resides in the center of the city of Emon, claiming that his mercy is only for those who worship him and essentially feed his greed and hunger. As such, Vox Machina, narrowly escaping the battle, a couple of encounters with these dragons, including one above their Keep, are housing a number of survivors who have made their way out of the city and are currently residing in Greyskull Keep for protection. You guys went into the city to see if you could find any other allies and friends that may have survived this encounter. You befriended a member of the Clasp, named Garthok, who walked amongst the rubble and proceeded to show you the secret entrance he knows to the Clasp, of which you may be trying to inquire about information. On your way to that area, you passed by Gilmore's shop, Gilmore being a good friend of the group and a powerful magic practitioner and creator of magical items and artifacts and a number of glorious goods. His abode, however, smashed and currently a pile of burnt wood and rock. Looters were currently poring through, and you attempted to get them to leave the area alone. It came to blows, and with many of the looters falling in battle, two of which were kept locked away. You discovered the location of where they were hoarding the massive amounts of gold and artifacts that they had acquired from the rubble. You then found the secret compartment in which Gilmore's teleportation sigil was locked beneath his shop, where the remaining family of Tal'Dorei, Salda and the three children, as well as Gilmore himself, wounded and barely alive, having saved them. You found that Uriel, the Sovereign, did not seemingly survive the encounter with the dragons, and Gilmore nearly fell going back to try and make sure that you guys were okay, barely escaping with his life. You managed to save his, and taking the children, Salda, Sherri, and Gilmore back to Greyskull Keep, some of you splintered off to try and acquire the goods that were taken from his store, however, they apparently had already been stolen from the location they were being stored in, or been delivered already, you're uncertain as to what became of them, but you get the sense that it was probably best that you chose Gilmore over the gold at first glance. Making your way back to the Keep, you've sent Gilmore up to rest for the evening, some of you have then found your way down into the temple of Sarenrae, where a number of the escaped refugees from Emon currently try desperately to cling to their memories, to try and keep the shakes at bay and contemplate what the next step is for survival in this now partially ruined city. That was where we left off. So. What would you like to do?
Sam: Kill all the dragons and save the day.
Matt: Good! Roll for it.
Laura: Oh, that was a good roll. See?
Taliesin: Natural 20. No, no.
Marisha: Good show, guys.
Laura: I rolled five natural 20s before the show even started.
Sam: That's a great, great idea.
Laura: So it's all going to be terrible.
Sam: Why are you rolling before the show?
Travis: She feels like she's got to "warm up" her endless army of dice.
Laura: No, I just have to figure out which ones I want to use that night.
Travis: You have five d20s right now.
Laura: I know, and they're all useful. No, I've got six out here.
Liam: Yeah, yeah, definitely all useful.
Taliesin: This is, by the way, for anybody tuning in for the first time at home, this is how we express that we have no idea what to do.
Sam: Where are we?
Taliesin: We're at home.
Matt: You're in Greyskull Keep.
Sam: And Gilmore's with us?
Matt: Gilmore's with you, he's been brought upstairs--
Liam: And did Pike's holy visitor fix the keep, or is the keep still effed up?
Matt: Actually, in the short time in which her visitor, this angelic deva-like entity that was brought forth from Sarenrae's sphere of influence, did manage to repair entirely the damage that was sustained to the Keep from the battle with Vorugal out in your courtyard. So yes, Greyskull Keep is now back to being intact and rather fairly polished. The stained glass is affixed and corrected.
Liam: It must look so strange next to the ruined city of Emon.
Matt: It's far enough away, but--
Laura: Little strange.
Marisha: So what time is it? It was nighttime, right? Or was it midday?
Matt: It's about midafternoon at this point, maybe pushing into the evening.
Taliesin: Is Kima still around?
Matt: I'm sorry, what was that?
Taliesin: Is Lady Kima still around, or?
Matt: Lady Kima's been in Vasselheim.
Taliesin: Oh, not Vasselheim, I'm sorry. Allura. I'm on the wrong page.
Matt: Yeah, she and Drake went.
Marisha: Remember, they turned into shooting stars and they flew away.
Sam: Is Clarota still here with us? (laughter)
Laura: We're off to a good start tonight, guys.
Matt: In your hearts. In your heart of hearts.
Travis: No, not even there. That piece of shit. Where are the majority of the people? Are they in the dining hall and in the--
Matt: They're scattered between the dining hall and the temple to Sarenrae. Partially because, one, there's enough space there, two, it's a place of sanctity, it's a place of hope, and Pike is currently bringing people-- not preaching to them, per se, but offering comfort in their current area of misery and worry. So those are pretty much the localized areas. Occasionally one of the kids might begin wandering the halls, a parent might chase after them, trying to draw them back in, but respectfully, no one's wandering the house filling their pockets, they're all still happy to be alive at this point.
Laura: Well, that's because we don't have anything, because Scanlan's troupe stole everything anyway.
Matt: There's that, too.
Sam: We bought new silverware.
Travis: Sure we did.
Sam: Maybe it wasn't my troupe, maybe it was our new guests, the people fleeing for their lives.
Travis: I was going to say, are there any new people that have come into the keep while we've been away? Can I ask one of our guards that?
Matt: Sure, yeah. Shayne, who's out front, currently strolling through the courtyard, comes up to you, and as you ask her, she goes, "Well, we've had a few other refugees come in and ask for entry, and we patted them down to make sure there were no weapons and tried our best to keep an eye on them since they arrived. Seems like most everyone's keeping either into the city or keeping fairly underground."
Travis: Nobody's sticking out to you, though, no shady individuals, nobody sweating more than is necessary when being threatened by a big fuck-off dragon?
Matt: "Not yet, but I believe Jarett's keeping a close eye."
Travis: Jarett--
Sam: That guy. Man-crush?
Travis: No. (laughter)
Sam: I wonder, in all prudence, should we go around to the 'fugees, the refugees and do a quick--
Laura: Insight check?
Sam: -- scan, alignment check or something?
Travis: Lauryn Hill is shaking her head.
Laura: Do we have anything that can sense people's alignment?
Sam: Pike might.
Marisha: Yeah, I can.
Sam: Can you do a mass, a mass sense alignment?
Marisha: Mass sense alignment?
Sam: Is that a thing?
Marisha: No, I'm saying I could do some insight checks on people.
Sam: Oh, I'm talking about your magic.
Marisha: No, I'm not Pike.
Sam: All right.
Travis: Pike's with us, though, right? She could do an insight check.
Sam: Is she with us?
Matt: Pike is with you. She is currently helping folks inside the temple. But you could go ask her to.
Liam: Use the skull to wish to know everyone's alignment. Problem solved.
Travis: We'll kill everyone. Kill everyone.
Sam: Maybe we should just kill one of them to make an example.
Laura: This is terrible, what is happening?
Liam: This isn't the real game, the game hasn't actually started yet.
Matt: So. Glancing about the populace of scattered refugees throughout the general vicinity of Greyskull Keep, I will pick two of you who wish to be the main surveyors of the crew.
Sam: Is this insight?
Matt: This would be insight, yes.
Laura: I'm on it.
Marisha: I'm on it with Vex.
Matt: Okay, so Vex and Keyleth, both you guys roll insight checks, please.
Laura: See, this is why I shouldn't have this many dice, because I don't know what to choose. Okay. 21.
Liam: Insight?
Marisha: 22.
Laura: 21.
Matt: Okay. Both of you guys spend about ten, 15 minutes or so scanning through the crew, asking a few questions, helping a few folks out while keeping an eye on reactions around the general vicinity. No one sticks out to you as being either hiding their intent, shifty. There are a few folks that are aloof from the whole experience, who seem to be either in a state of shock, or discomfort based on their current surroundings, but nothing in a way that strikes you as nefarious or worrisome.
Liam: And are they all strangers, other than the people we brought back with us?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: They are strangers?
Matt: Yeah. There's a lot of people that live in Emon, and none of them seem to catch your eye.
Liam: Yeah. Is anyone still badly hurt?
Matt: Most of them have had their wounds tended to. There are a few that have general scars, some from elements of frostbite on their skin, who were caught in the blast, who were salvaged after Vorugal left. There are a few that have scrapes and bruises from fleeing from the town, from collapsing debris from different buildings and such, but no serious injuries. A few bone fractures here and there that have been set and bandaged.
Liam: I'm going to spend the first bit of time at home helping Pike, doing whatever she tells me to do, really, to help the people here.
Marisha: Is there any deceased that need to be tended to?
Matt: Well, there are a number of deceased in the front courtyard, people that were frozen and shattered as part of Vorugal's attack, which at this point, most of them have been taken care of by the guards and given a proper burial on the outside of the Keep, a few yards away, towards the inside of the one of the hills. They haven't been left to thaw, if that was what you're worried about.
Marisha: That's what I was worried about.
Taliesin: Red meat. Red.
Laura: Gross.
Liam: Way to go dark. Way to go dark.
Taliesin: I thought that's what we were doing today.
Matt: Cost-effective. A number of the refugees have also helped the guards as well, transporting the bodies of the deceased and making sure that they're properly interred in the nearby countryside.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: What are our options here? First of all, do we know Gilmore's status?
Laura: Yeah, we need to get him settled in, make sure he's all right.
Liam: Well, he's gone up, he's resting.
Marisha: Yeah, we put him to bed already.
Liam: He's in Percival's room, I think. You said you would sleep in your laboratory.
Sam: And when we last left things, there was one plan to go into the tunnels of the thieves' guild and try to see if there's any more--
Laura: Yes. Actually, Garthok.
Marisha: Yes.
Laura: Garthok is waiting for us down in those, so we can go look at the Clasp and talk to them and everything, because he's told them we're on our way.
Sam: And to what end, again? We're going to see if there's any random diplomats left over?
Taliesin: They're the only functioning organization left in the city at this point.
Liam: It's true, they're a double-edged sword, though. I mean, they should not be trusted, we cannot trust them, but they are an infrastructure under the city. They may have more of an idea what's going on than we do. I'm the best to speak to them, but I'm not on good terms with them, and I've never really talked to you about this, but you were marked at one point, a long time ago.
Laura: What?
Sam: For death?
Liam: Actually, yes.
Laura: Why? What did I do?
Liam: I'm sure I don't know. The reason there is a brand on my back is because I interceded. Some other schmoe died instead of you. You might be a bit of a sore point with them. I don't know. They might not remember, but I don't think that's true, I think they'll remember.
Marisha: How long ago was this?
Sam: What did you do?
Laura: So many things.
Liam: Before we met, when Vex and I were on our own.
Sam: Was it because you farted that time?
Laura: You didn't think you could mention this? All the times we've dealt with the Clasp? You didn't think it was worth mentioning that I almost died?
Marisha: She's already been down there. She's already been down there! You think they're going to recognize her now?
Liam: We're going down to talk.
Laura: We've been down there to talk.
Liam: Right. All right.
Laura: That's why you don't keep secrets.
Taliesin: Well, I say that we organize a group. Let's not get overexcited about the sudden realization that some of us can be a bit iffy. We've all had a moment, probably within the last three weeks. I'm not saying I don't.
Travis: I haven't.
Taliesin: Yes, oddly, you and Pike seem to be immune.
Travis: It is a virtue.
Taliesin: But let's organize a group, and let's at least open relations with them at this point.
Marisha: Well, hang on, hang on. What are we going to say to them when we get down there? What are we going to offer them?
Taliesin: We are going to offer them our services in getting this city back to a functioning level. They don't want a city ruled by a dragon, we don't want a city ruled by a dragon. It's in their interest to help us clear the city.
Liam: They're going to look out for themselves, and you're probably-- I'm sure you're right, they want these dragons out, but they will do-- they will preserve their own existence, and there's a possibility that bowing before these beasts will preserve their existence.
Taliesin: Not long-term, and these are groups that think long-term.
Marisha: Wait, are you talking about us bowing to the Clasp, or the Clasp bowing to the-- okay. Sorry, there were levels.
Liam: And yes, we've been down there, we've argued with them, but we're talking about going down there and making an alliance, an ongoing alliance, and shit might come up, that's all I'm saying.
Taliesin: Let's make it a business deal. We're talking about making a political decision. This is politics.
Travis: What if they leave? What if they leave the city, or what if they turn us in to the dragon to save their own asses?
Taliesin: They could. I doubt they'd leave, that's a terrible waste of an investment.
Marisha: You're essentially relying on the underbelly of Emon to restore it.
Taliesin: I am, I'm relying on greed, it tends to be exceedingly reliable.
Marisha: In your experience.
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: In all experience, let's be honest.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Travis: Said the greedy one to the greedy one.
Liam: This is one option, are we sure we don't want to seek help--
Sam: Yes, what are our other options?
Taliesin: I'm curious as to other options.
Sam: We know why the dragons are here, right? Ish?
Marisha: I really feel like it might be necessary for me to also reach out to the Air and Earth and possibly even the Water Ashari. It might be difficult because I haven't been there yet. To see if they've had any other tears through the other elemental planes.
Taliesin: That would be quite wise.
Marisha: We can also seek to employ their services.
Travis: Scanlan.
Sam: Huh?
Travis: What about you becoming a spy?
Sam: I've been thinking about that, long and hard.
Marisha: Have you?
Sam: Yes.
Marisha: What are your thoughts?
Sam: Most of what I do is long and hard. And my thoughts are still: fuck you, no way, fuck off.
Travis: So what you're saying is?
Sam: Maybe. (laughter)
Liam: So you're saying there's a chance.
Travis: Your shining moment--
Taliesin: Nothing is ever going to top the triceratops, really.
Sam: Maybe the triceratops could kill all the dragons.
Travis: All right. So we reach out to the Ashari.
Taliesin: Absolutely.
Sam: How's your homeland?
Taliesin: I don't know.
Sam: Do we need to find out?
Taliesin: I would love to.
Sam: You can transport there instantly.
Taliesin: I can. I just can't get back instantly.
Laura: You need Keyleth.
Taliesin: And I figure that they would have sent somebody at this point if things had gone-- they have an instant transport to us if they need to find us.
Sam: True.
Laura: Unless they don't know about the stone and the only one with the stone--
Taliesin: The Council knows about the stone.
Travis: Or there's no one left to send.
Liam: Yes, if things went south--
Taliesin: We would've heard.
Marisha: I can scry twice today.
Taliesin: That would be lovely.
Marisha: I can do it two times. So we need to pick where it's most important to check in versus where we might want to pop in and say hello.
Taliesin: Whitestone is also somewhere we could arm ourselves more completely against something like this. We're going to have to start--
Travis: With what?
Matt: As a note, too, Pike can also scry as well.
Laura: Oh, good. Because I would like to check in to Vasselheim as well.
Sam: How do you kill a dragon? Do we need a dragon? Can we get a dragon that hates these dragons? Is that a thing?
Laura: You know, there is the Slayer's Take.
Travis: Wait, what are we talking about dragons? Do other dragons hate dragons?
Sam: Yeah, could we find a dragon who could fight for us?
Laura: Well, there's metallic dragons.
Liam: Don't get along with chromatic.
Sam: Do we know any metallic dragons?
Travis: Yeah, where are they?
Marisha: We would have to go to Vasselheim and maybe--
Taliesin: My Aunt Edna.
Travis: What?
Taliesin: She's a dragon-lady, I don't know if that's the same thing.
Marisha: Like, oh, like she-- little ceramic dragons, she likes collecting them?
Taliesin: I was mocking him, yes.
Sam: So, wait, the Slayer's Take, what?
Laura: Well, it's an organization made to hunt massive creatures, isn't it?
Liam: It's a horde of fucking ass-kickers, is what it is.
Taliesin: We fought a dragon-- we killed a dragon for them.
Marisha: They're also rooted in Vasselheim, which is--
Sam: It's safe.
Laura: Yes, but-- If everything else is under attack, Vasselheim is inevitable.
Sam: Yes, but they're protected.
Laura: For a time.
Liam: Allow me to play tiefling's advocate. If we leave now and allow the Clasp to take hold and form some sort of new shadow government, without us having any part in it, it's out of our control completely. It won't be in our control at all. But maybe if we speak to them now, we'll have a better idea of what's going on. I'm not sold on any idea yet, but if we leave now and let things play out, it's entirely out of our hands.
Marisha: All right, well, how about this? We can scry, between Pike and I, four times. So we can make four phone calls today.
Sam: Not phone calls, just a look.
Marisha: Yes, look home. No, we can peek through a window. And we can try and go visit the Clasp.
Sam: Okay, well, let's scry it up, then. Who are we calling? Whitestone, Vasselheim, center of Emon?
Taliesin: Whitestone and Vasselheim, I think. Definitely.
Marisha: And I want to check in with--
Travis: Can I object to checking the center of Emon, right? Because that's where the Cinder King is?
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: Didn't it, like, ruin magic when we did it to the beholder, didn't it see us and laugh and we were like, augh, it hurts my brain--
Taliesin: He's got a point. You've got a point.
Sam: You're pretty smart, Grog.
Marisha: We don't need to scry into Emon.
Travis: I remember.
Liam: We're talking Vasselheim, yeah? Whitestone. And you can do it another two--
Marisha: You know what, let's go talk to Pike, because Pike might possibly have some sort of spiritual connection with Vasselheim as well that might save us a scry.
Taliesin: It's possible that Vasselheim might be our next stop after we secure everything here.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: Oh, Pike! Oh.
Marisha: I can also teleport us once today, if we decide to go anywhere.
Sam: Thanks.
Marisha: Pike!
Sam: Pike! Pikey!
Matt: Comes out, a little bit of dirt on her brow, looks like she's been busy handling some of the folks--
Sam: I reach out and brush the dirt from above her forehead.
Matt: She smiles and pushes your hand away. "Yes, what, yes?"
Marisha: Pike, do you have any sort of spiritual connection with Vasselheim? Do you feel-- you know how--
Matt: "I do. I do. Why?"
Marisha: Okay, can you check--
Sam: Can you scry?
Marisha: Can you see if they're okay? We want to scry and check in with a few places.
Matt: "Of course, of course, no worries." She ushers you guys back into the temple.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: And then gets a little nervous when she starts thinking about it and walks up to the central platform of prayer and takes out her holy symbol. Her armor's off right now, by the way, she's in her ceremonial robes. Because it's hard to clank around in armor amongst a bunch of refugees. Sits down and focuses for a second, and pulls out some salt, and begins spreading it into a small triangular shape around her, and then pulls her holy symbol out and closes her eyes, and for that moment, you can see a beam of sunlight come through the roof, the glass roof of the temple, which then refracts into multiple colors that slowly dissipate around her. You can see, everyone else that has gathered in the room falls quiet, and watches on as there is this tiny little visual miracle. And she stays there for a moment. A few more moments. Probably about 30, 40 seconds pass before the light slowly retracts back up through the glass, and she stands up and turns around and goes, "Vasselheim seems fine for now. Untouched from the dragon's scourge, at the very least."
Marisha: That's good.
Laura: That's good.
Taliesin: What of Whitestone?
Matt: "Oh. Yes." She gets right back down into position with an air of begrudging acceptance. Focuses for a second. Spends a few more moments in her scrying ritual before stepping back, and turns slowly to you, Percy, and says, "Whitestone seems fairly overlooked by these dragons as well. The town rebuilds. People seem to be going about their lives. Possibly none the wiser as to what's transpired this side of Tal'Dorei."
Taliesin: We'll send word, at the very least.
Laura: It's all over the water. Maybe the dragons haven't gone that far.
Taliesin: It's far north. I'll make sure to send word.
Matt: "Okay." One of the kids starts crying, and she goes, "Oh, hold on." And goes over and starts tending to one of the children who has like a knee brace on, and is currently aching, and she goes to help calm him down. "Shh, shh."
Liam: Do you think you could look in on Syngorn?
Marisha: Of course.
Laura: Mostly to see, you know.
Marisha: I step up to the table, and begin my scrying ritual, checking on Syngorn first.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Shit.
Laura: Come on.
Taliesin: We need like cups and string or something.
Sam: We do. Or a walkie-talkie. He's saying, Syngorn is gone.
Laura: Don't say that.
Taliesin: Millions dead.
Laura: Millions. It's very large.
Travis: Remember to shop at Gilmore's Ruined Rubble. (laughter)
Sam: Oh no, he didn't even get a new franchise before it was--
Taliesin: For all your reclaimed wood needs.
Travis: Oh. Well done. Well done. That was nice.
Taliesin: The best was watching Laura go, "Oh what a great i-- ooh."
Travis: And endless supply of pavers and gravel.
Sam: Gilmore's Building Supplies. (laughter)
Travis: All your home improvements.
Matt: Back to your regularly scheduled D&D game.
Sam: What did you see, Keyleth?
Marisha: Syngorn is gone. And I don't mean destroyed, I don't mean burnt. I don't mean that it's rubble, I mean it's gone. The city is gone. There's, like, a huge chasm, a huge empty spot in the middle of the forest where Syngorn once lied. Lie.
Sam: Lay. Did it look like it was destroyed to nothing? Or transported somewhere?
Marisha: Like that. Like transported, like the city was lifted out of its place and was teleported elsewhere.
Sam: Could it have been-- I don't know how your scrying works-- could it have been some sort of a magical block? Not real, an illusion of some sort?
Matt: I would like Vax and Vex to both roll a history check.
Laura: Any kind of advantage on that? For growing up there or something?
Matt: Nope, that's-- you get to roll this because of that.
Liam: History?
Taliesin: Should have stayed in school.
Liam: Didn't help.
Laura: Eight.
Liam: 15.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Can I take a roll just for being a nerd?
Liam: All out of luck.
Matt: Are you proficient in history?
Taliesin: I am proficient in history.
Matt: Sure, I'll let you roll.
Taliesin: I want a nerd roll. 24. Book reading!
Matt: Okay. Being the astute researcher, the indoor kid growing up. Yeah. There aren't a lot of books that made their way north about pure elven culture, especially wooded elves, that comprise the entirety of the Syngorn nation.
Taliesin: I speak Elven, so that's good. (laughter)
Matt: It has rarely come into play, but because of previous wars, terrible devastation, and the need for the elvish culture to protect itself, and to maintain its existence, you do know that there have been instances of large enchantments on places of cultural importance that would bridge between here and the Feywild. And as a defense mechanism, essentially, would cloak and/or shift those locations.
Taliesin: They've gone into hiding.
Marisha: How can you be sure?
Taliesin: I can't, but there's reason to believe so. It's what it points to.
Liam: What points to what? What are you talking about?
Taliesin: Historically, elves have, in times of great stress, taken important sites, important places, people, and either cloaked them, hidden them, or moved them into the Feywild until such time as the danger has passed. There is precedence for this. They've gone into hiding.
Laura: Great.
Liam: That's one more thing our father failed to impart to us.
Laura: (laughs cynically) At least he's safe.
Taliesin: Most likely.
Marisha: I need to check in on the Air Ashari. I'm going to spend my last scrying.
Matt: Okay. As your vision separates from your current place of origin, you find yourself drifting up into the clouds and speeding through the air. The location itself is blurred, though recalling the origin of where you originally came from, you pass by columns of black smoke to your left, you assume somewhere related to Westrunn's current location.
Marisha: Right.
Matt: Eventually, the clouds part, and you find yourself thrust down upon the earth amongst the center of the Air Ashari tribe. You can see the thin leather constructs that make up a portion of your people's hovels and buildings. You can see the nearby chasm-based windfall that pours through constantly with a gentle whistling sound that forever is marked as the chorus that guides you all to sleep every evening. There, you can see your people amongst various conversations, going amongst their various daily duties, seemingly untouched, unscathed, and unaware of what recent events had transpired.
Marisha: They're okay.
Matt: That is the last of your scrying capability for the day.
Taliesin: You didn't have to know that. Big girls don't scry. Sorry, I saw it on Netflix.
Laura: Wow. Wow. Hit after hit after hit today, Taliesin.
Liam: You know, just because you can, doesn't mean you should.
Taliesin: I know. I know. Coffee hasn't kicked in yet.
Marisha: All right, they're okay. They seem unaware, which is very disheartening on a few levels.
Taliesin: Well, they'll know soon enough.
Marisha: Exactly.
Taliesin: We are going to need transport.
Sam: To where?
Taliesin: Ah. I don't think we're going to win this fight staying here, I think we're going to have to rally power, I think we're going to have to rally allies. I don't think there's enough here for us to win.
Laura: Can we relocate all of the refugees staying in our walls? Can we bring everyone through the Sun Tree? Keyleth? How long does it stay open?
Marisha: Six seconds.
Taliesin: We can go in shifts. This is not something that's going to be solved tomorrow. We can take a week, and move people.
Liam: That's true. And there's 50 to 100 refugees, you said, something like that, right?
Matt: At this point now, in your keep, surviving, you're looking at the 30s.
Liam: 30s?
Sam: But there's hundreds more inside the city walls. Thousands.
Taliesin: We're going-- we're not going to be able to empty the city.
Laura: But we can at least get these people out.
Taliesin: We can get these people out. And we're going to need-- and I apologise for the brightness in my voice-- I think we're going to need an airship.
Laura: An airship sounds wonderful, Percy, but--
Liam: You mean like the one that crashed?
Taliesin: Like the one that crashed.
Laura: One dragon attacking it and it's down.
Taliesin: We're going to need to move quickly, though, from city to city, and we're going to need to get word.
Marisha: Well, moving quickly from city to city-- I don't know.
Taliesin: We may have to steal an airship or something.
Sam: You're going to steal a plane?
Taliesin: I'm making a plan. I'm thinking of a plan.
Laura: You keep thinking, there.
Taliesin: It's working.
Marisha: Well, I mean, I've recently discovered that that misty Wind Walk spell that I cast on all of us is not great for battle, but is great for travel. And that lasts for eight hours.
Sam: What does? Who?
Marisha: Remember how I failed and almost killed us all?
Travis: Shit the bed. Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah. Thanks, Grog. What I learned out of that was it's not great for battle, but it is great for travel. It lasts for eight hours. We can move 300 feet per second.
Laura: Wonderful. We get the refugees out, we go to Whitestone, we talk to them there, we use the Misty Walk thingy and go to Vasselheim, talk to the Slayer's Take. This is perfect. Problem--
Sam: Are we going to check in with the Clasp? I really like Percy's idea about stealing a plane. I'm just throwing that out there.
Taliesin: There is an empty airdock that's currently not being used in the city.
Laura: Do we need a ship right now, darling? I understand the joy in it.
Taliesin: We don't need it now, but we're going to be-- need to move--
Sam: We could take all of these refugees with us. Don't you understand? We would be helping humanity.
Marisha: I'm with Vex. You all honestly--
Laura: -- believe a dragon wouldn't notice a giant airship flying out of the city?
Sam: Not if we hide it with some-- some smokescreen action of some sort.
Liam: Guys. This is an RPG, not a JRPG. (laughter)
Taliesin: I want to live like Teddy Ruxpin. This is all I've ever wanted. (laughter)
Laura: We need to talk to the Clasp first.
Sam: All right, let's go talk to the Clasp. We'll ask them what they think about--
Laura: Plus Allura and Drake are coming back. We need to talk to them as well. Find out what's going on in Westrunn. And then we need to get everyone out.
Marisha: I can transport some of us via plants today. I will have to sleep if we want and study to do the Misty Step again.
Laura: I've got a plan.
Taliesin: We have time. This is not a one-day plan.
Laura: Here's a good plan. This is a good plan, though.
Liam: Here it comes, everybody.
Laura: Open up the tree. Send a bunch of refugees through.
Marisha: Shove a bunch in.
Laura: Shove them through as fast as possible. Percy. You go with them. We keep the stone. You go through. You talk to your sister. You bamf back with the stone.
Marisha: Let Whitestone know what's going on. Because they're going to freak out if like--
Laura: And then we talk to the Clasp together.
Taliesin: I think that's a good plan.
Marisha: They will freak out if 20 refugees pour out of the Sun Tree. And they have no context.
Travis: Do that first.
Marisha: Okay. So wait, are you going to go on your mission while we go talk to the Clasp?
Laura: No, we're going to wait for you. So can we get the refugees together?
Matt: All right, so as you go into the temple and get Pike's attention, you begin to round up the refugees, which as a statement, historically, is already unnerving. You begin to push them all together in a group and tell them what?
Laura: Well, we comfort them and tell them  all right, obviously Emon is not a safe place to be right now.
Matt: "No, that's true, that's true! It's terrible here!"
Laura: It's dangerous, and we want to keep all of you as safe as possible.
Matt: "Yes, and thank you for taking us." Everyone starts cheering.
Laura: We have a plan.
Sam: We probably can only take a few. It should be women and children.
Laura: We're going to take those of you who need the most attention first, and we're going to bring you to Whitestone, which is a city that has not been affected by dragons at all. It has much need of people who can do an honest day's labor, and you can earn a wage and find a living there, for the time being, and if at some point in time you want to come back to Emon when all of this is done, of course you're more than welcome to.
Liam: There is opportunity.
Marisha: And no dragons!
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Laura: I'm rolling the gold one! 20?
Matt: Okay! A couple of folks currently, (muttering) "I've never been to Whitestone! Is it cold?"
Laura: In the winter.
Matt: "It's winter!"
Laura: Then it could be a little chilly!
Sam: Bundle up! We'll give you some wool blankets for the trip!
Matt: "Okay?"
Liam: There's definitely no vampires there. None.
Matt: A couple of kids go, "Vampires, sir?"
Laura: I like that we're sending to them to the place that's got the orb of death.
Matt: "What was that? What'd you say?"
Sam: No, nothing, she didn't say anything.
Laura: I said, "You might be able to see your breath!"
Matt: "Winter! Right! Okay, let's grab our things!" And some of the folks start getting their things together. Packing up their things-- what they had on their back, essentially, as they rushed here. Shake a few out of their shell-shock, and they all gather up towards the center of the Temple of Sarenrae.
Laura: Percy-- stone. To go through the--
Taliesin: I already gave it to Keyleth.
Laura: Oh, okay.
Marisha: DM question? How many do you think I can fit through in six seconds?
Matt: We'll find out!
Marisha: If I put them in like a line, and we're like, "Go! Go! Go!"
Matt: That's up to you guys! How do you want to do this?
Liam: They can't get-- no one can get cut in half, can they?
Laura: Well I assume, as soon as we see it start to shrink, we stop! We cut off the line.
Marisha: Well, what we should do-- here's the thing that I'm worried about. We don't want, like, a kid to go through, and then they get separated from their mom.
Travis: Well, everybody's got to grow up at some point.
Laura: Anybody with children. How many children are here?
Matt: I'd say you have seven children.
Laura: Children with their moms go-- and families go first.
Liam: Well, we were saying that the terribly injured, the people with the worst injuries--
Laura: All right, those people first!
Liam: Yeah, those people first.
Travis: Yeah, because they'll go through real fast.
Liam: And then with kids-- But they need attention now! They need--
Sam: Hey! We're going to be doing this every day for several days.
Taliesin: Hey, I've got a weird theory. Let's not send people with injuries yet, so that perhaps Pike can stay here and take care of them for a little bit?
Laura: Oh! Good call, okay! So the injured can stay.
Travis: Can't we put them on a wagon? Can't we like put them on a wagon, down and like--
Taliesin: We don't want to lose a wagon to Whitestone.
Sam: This is just how Schindler did it, by the way.
Laura: What!?
Sam: He debated it for a while, and then-- (nervous laughter).
Liam: No words! No words!
Travis: And the room goes silent, and the mug comes up.
Laura: Okay. So not the injured. Families first. How about that?
Taliesin: We'll count to six, and then we'll put the rope down, and when we hit six, we pull the rope, and it'll hold everybody--
Sam: Wait, there's a rope?
Laura: As soon as we see it start to shrink, I'll hold the people back.
Taliesin: Yes, hold the people back.
Laura: So Percy, you're first, everybody follow through. So any families here? Families?
Matt: Some of the kids raise their hands, some adults go over and they grab kids' hands and stand next to them. "Yes."
Laura: Are you really respons-- I can tell when you're lying, sir. Are you responsible for that child?
Matt: Make an insight check.
Laura: 26!
Matt: Ha! Two of those people are definitely just taking a kid's hand in hopes of getting through first.
Travis: I walk in and start cracking my knuckles behind Vex.
Matt: "Well, I mean, I can wait, no worries! Eh--"
Laura: Child, where's your parents? Do you have one?
Matt: "They haven't shown up yet."
Laura: Oh, dear.
Sam: Leave them here, in case the parents come.
Laura: Okay. Then you would stay and wait for your family, potentially?
Liam: You can stay with Pike, for now.
Matt: Pike comes over and pats him on the shoulder. They're the same height, so it's easy.
Marisha: Let's do completed full families who are comfortable relocating.
Laura: That can move. Here we go.
Matt: Altogether, completed full families, there are two.
Marisha: How many people?
Matt: It'd be a total of eight people.
Laura: That's good! That's a good amount!
Travis: Yeah, think about it! One one thousand, one one thousand--
Laura: And then, any other like single people that can move fast?
Marisha: Yeah, a couple single people? To bring up the rear?
Matt: Okay. You have about ten more people that raise their hands.
Taliesin: We can get that many through in six seconds.
Sam: What are you talking about?
Laura: Get ready to run, people.
Marisha: All right. So let's go to the tree. Percy, you're going to lead. Percy, you're going to lead. We're going to put the eight up front, with the ten, 15 stragglers behind. I tell them all: all right. As soon as you see that tree start to part, run! Run your face off! I tell that to the crowd.
Taliesin: And keep running. So that you make room for everyone behind you, we don't want like-- it's not the bottom of an escalator. Whatever that is. It's a thing I've been working on, it's going to be great.
Marisha: Don't stop in the tree, you will create terrible congestion.
Laura: Everybody comfortable with the plan?
Sam: Can I inspire Keyleth for this?
Matt: Sure.
Sam: Okay, I will perform a limerick for her to inspire her. I know an airheaded young druid / whose plans are more gassy than fluid / when the battle starts / she turns her pals into farts / they see danger and pass right through it!
Marisha: Thank you, Scanlan. I love it. It's so like me.
Matt: Take a 1d10 inspiration die.
Travis: I hate to be the detail-oriented one about this whole thing, but should somebody be counting as soon as she starts so we put down an arm at six?
Laura: You count in your head, Grog.
Travis: You really don't want me to do that.
Marisha: Maybe with my inspiration, I can get a few more seconds in there?
Matt: We shall see. I'll say for the sake of this, go ahead and roll a wisdom check.
Marisha: Oh boy.
Matt: A d20 and add your wisdom modifier.
Marisha: Oh, that's not good.
Sam: You've got inspiration if you need it.
Marisha: Can I add my inspiration to this?
Matt: Go for it.
Marisha: Ooh, that's good. That helps a lot. What am I adding? Just my straight wisdom?
Matt: Yep, wisdom modifier.
Marisha: My modifier? 19 total.
Matt: 19 total, okay. So as you all gather around in the center of the temple, Keyleth, you step up to the outside of one of the two front trees to the temple, one of the ones you guys usually use to transport to and from here. As you focus in and reach your hand out and touch the outside of the tree's bark, with a rough tearing sound, the tree bark widens into an oval-shaped doorway that is immediately visible. On the opposite side, you can see before you a lightly snow-dappled landscape that is the central market of Whitestone.
Laura: We put blankets on everybody, right?
Matt: From what you had.
Marisha: Go! Go! Now, run, go! Go, Percy, go!
Matt: Who's pushing?
Taliesin: I'm already through.
Matt: Percy's through. All right, are you guys just letting them go at their own rate?
Travis: (shouting) Move your fucking asses!
Matt: Roll an intimidation check.
Marisha: It's like a football line.
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17. With that, everyone goes, (startled noise) and starts charging through wildly. The crowd starts pushing through.
Marisha: I'm trying to hold it.
Liam: No severed limbs, no whammies!
Matt: Okay. All of the rest-- the family people go through, the young folks push through. You manage to get a total of 23 people through. (cheering)
Matt: Some folks who weren't even planning to go on this were so driven by the sudden shouting Grog voice echoing from behind that they charged forward Black Friday-style, and managed to escape the tail end of the spell tapering the doorway off.
Liam: "I regret nothing!"
Sam: Well, I hope Percy comes back soon.
Marisha: I've got the gatestone.
Matt: Percy?
Taliesin: I'm going to get everybody organized. Everyone, please follow me. We're heading towards the main castle.
Matt: They're all looking around.
Taliesin: Welcome to Whitestone.
Matt: A gentle snowfall is coming down. The sky itself you can see is covered in light, white clouds. Just enough moisture to carry the little snowfall that's happening. There are folks in the center of the town that are surprised to see this arrival, but recognize you and cheer a little bit. "Hey! Percival." (laughter)
Taliesin: Thank you for that smattering of applause. Golf claps, please. Golf claps.
Matt: The refugees all gather up behind you, and you guys walk towards Castle Whitestone.
Taliesin: We make our way to the castle.
Matt: The guards greet you and lead you inside. And within a few minutes, Cassandra comes down from the upper floor. "Percival, you've returned."
Taliesin: Things are not going well. Have you heard any news of Emon and what has been transpiring there?
Matt: "No, we've been focused on restoring our city. Why?"
Taliesin: Yesterday, we were attacked by a group of chromatic dragons. The city is destroyed. There's no simple way to say this, but we're under siege. We were afraid that Whitestone would be destroyed, as well, but it seems that they have passed over you so far, but we fear for many cities' safety. I was hoping that it would be all right if we moved a small number of refugees through to Whitestone for the time being. Less than a hundred, I imagine. These are the first 20-some-odd that we've pulled through.
Matt: And she looks behind you, looks to the crowd, snaps her fingers. Some of the guards step forward, she goes, "Please, if you would make sure to find any of the various unoccupied buildings are provided to these refugees. Thank you." And the guards nod, and begin gathering the group and sending them back into town, and she gives you a look back and says, "For better or for worse, we happen to have a number of vacancies in the city due to recent events. But--"
Taliesin: Oh! Well, yes. Nothing I-- Anything I should know about?
Matt: "No, just-- We've lost many in the struggle against the Briarwoods. But yes, they will be provided for, I assure you."
Taliesin: So I will let you know to stop all business with Emon for now. Be very wary, prepare the city for a possible dragon attack. Things are looking dark.
Matt: "Yes, yes."
Taliesin: And if it's possible, any research-- any energy that can be put forward towards mounting some sort of defense against these creatures would be greatly appreciated.
Matt: "Right, right, well, we had a few individuals that were researching the ziggurat beneath the city. Two left a while back and we had one arrive just the other day."
Taliesin: Who arrived the other day?
Matt: "I cannot recall his name-- Realm Seeker, Realm Seer-- I'm not--"
Laura: (whispering) Eskil Ryndarien!
Taliesin: Please bring me to him.
Matt: All right, Cassandra leads you down into the city again, and one of the houses has been provided, she knocks on the door, the door opens and you see stepping out, an older gentleman who you've heard of but not really had an encounter with since-- no, actually you encountered him for the final ritual that took the phylactery from Grog's chest.
Taliesin: Oh my god.
Matt: But this is Realmseer Eskil Ryndarien, the archmage that basically was one of the folks who lived within Westruun and was called to Whitestone as part of research--
Taliesin: That's some pre-stream stuff, everybody.
Matt: As the door opens, he comes out, eyes adjusting to the light, and you can see the interior is very dark. He's one of those live-in-lightless-territory types of person. Comes out with his round spectacles around his nose, his robe is disheveled, bundled over his shoulders, he goes, "Yes, if I may be of service--?"
Taliesin: We've met! You look very familiar.
Matt: "Quite! Yes we have. You're with those S.H.I.T.s, weren't you?"
Taliesin: (laughing) Ah, yes.
Matt: "Unfortunate title you've chosen--"
Taliesin: Long gone, thankfully, long gone. We're Vox Machina--
Matt: "Good! Vox Machina, glad you took my suggestion."
Taliesin: Yes, thank you for that. (laughing)
Matt: "What can I do for you?"
Taliesin: Well, first of all, how goes the research into the--
Matt: "Frustrating, to say the least. It appears that this entire--" and he walks back into the house, expecting you guys to follow. As you enter, immediately you're hit with the smell of sage and other burning herbs, and you can see there's a vast number of books that are strewn about the table in front. The fireplace in the back is pouring smoke up into the roof area and soot's starting to gather on the stonework on the outside. Looks like there's two or three different kettles going off with different types of tea. It's complete chaos in here, but he seems to be in control of most of it, at least. He goes, "From best we can ascertain, this is some sort of a magical siphon device. It has prevented us from utilizing any sort of ritualistic endeavors in ascertaining its nature, it's quite perplexing. I'm hoping to either head over to Wildemount, or perhaps return to the Cobalt Reserve and perhaps find some historical information about such an object, but nothing in my current--"
Taliesin: Well, sir, I have some bad news for you. I hail from Emon, which has been attacked by chromatic dragons--
Matt: "I'm sorry, what?"
Taliesin: Dragons have declared war on civilization. A group of dragons have destroyed our city, and they have destroyed other cities as well. We are in desperate need of powers to defend ourselves with-- So I would be very careful and send forward-- Send word ahead of yourself before you travel anywhere, it may not be there by the time you get there.
Matt: "Well, I guess it's good that I moved my tower before I left."
Taliesin: Things are looking grim and I would ask while you-- If you intend to remain and work on your research on this anomaly beneath our city, perhaps thinking as to how it may be turned into a weapon for our use against these creatures would not be out of the realm of question, and any information you do have of the chromatic dragons would be invaluable. Any research that can be done. We are at war.
Matt: "This is very disconcerting news. I will do what I can. Unfortunately, I'd have to get back to the Cobalt Reserve. That's where most of my research is completed."
Taliesin: That's Westruun?
Matt: "Let me see. Jeckt--" And he snaps his fingers, and you can see his manservant, Jeckt, who you've met before, slicked-back darkish red hair, mustache, very prim and proper-type manservant, well-dressed, steps out of the shadows. "Yes, my lord?" "If you would be so kind, prepare me for travel, pack up this--"
Taliesin: Westruun is no more, sir.
Matt: "Well, that's really frustrating!"
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: "Really."
Taliesin: Extremely aggravating.
Matt: "Yes. I am unhappy with this circumstance! How am I supposed to do my research without a place to do my research?!"
Taliesin: Well, we hope that you will find our winters here quite solitary, and convenient on that level. Things are looking grim.
Matt: "Well, you can say that again."
Taliesin: I must go. I have other work to do to start preparing--
Travis: Peace!
Matt: "Yes, yes go! Do your thing!"
Taliesin: Good day, sir. And good luck to you.
Matt: "Should I find anything, how will I-- whereabouts-- Where are you?"
Taliesin: We don't know yet, but we will be returning here.
Matt: "That does not help me. I will do my best."
Taliesin: Cassandra will be able to get a hold of me if necessary.
Matt: "Ah, Cassandra. All right! Someone of use around here."
Taliesin: I am going to go find my sister and make my way to the stone.
Matt: He doesn't even say goodbye to you. He's completely flustered. It's funny. For everyone who's taken completely by the horror of the situation, he just seems really perturbed about the--
Travis: Inconvenience of it all.
Matt: Yeah, it's so inconvenient. That library was very helpful.
Taliesin: Why isn't the internet working! (frustrated noise)
Matt: Basically. You find your way to Cassandra again. She's waiting outside of the room. "I hope he's been helpful, brother"
Taliesin: No, he wasn't helpful, but it was very helpful the way he wasn't helpful.
Matt: "Yes."
Taliesin: It's a strange, strange--
Matt: "He's a very strange man."
Taliesin: Everything's going to be all right.
Matt: "I hope so."
Taliesin: Thank you. I will return very soon. We will, again with your permission, hopefully be using Whitestone as a place to regroup and prepare ourselves.
Matt: "Is there worry that these dragons might come here?"
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: "How will we stop them?"
Taliesin: You'll hide. I have thoughts, perhaps of a weapon. I don't know. But we're going to find a way to stop them.
Matt: "We have to."
Taliesin: I'm not good at being the bearer of any bad news, but this is very dangerous and I don't know what we're going to do.
Sam: (whispers) Steal an airplane.
Matt: "Neither do I."
Taliesin: (whispers) They don't have an airplane.
Matt: "Stay safe, Percival."
Taliesin: I shall return soon.
Matt: "I hope so. We'll do what we can in the meantime to see to your refugees and hopefully try and prepare ourselves."
Taliesin: There will be a few more through, possibly tomorrow, with word.
Matt: "All right. We'll be prepared. Thank you." She reaches out and puts her hand on yours, again, and looks you sternly in the face and goes, "Be careful."
Taliesin: I will.
Matt: "You're all I have left."
Taliesin: And Cassandra, I'm proud of you. You're doing very well here.
Matt: "There's still a ways to go, brother."
Taliesin: We'll get there.
Matt: She hands you the gatestone. And with that, there's a slight popping sound as you're in a very soft bit of bluish-purple light. Your body slowly subsides and fades into nothing before it (poof) vanishes out of existence. As you guys are back at the keep, suddenly, who has the gatestone? As you're holding it, it begins to shake in your hand and give off a warm light.
Marisha: I think our reservation's ready.
Sam: I'm telling the, what, seven remaining refugees?
Matt: You have about eight or nine.
Sam: Sorry you didn't make it through. It doesn't mean that you'll be here forever. We'll get you there tomorrow. No big. Don't worry about it.
Laura: More food for you guys, which is A+.
Matt: At which point now, there's a slight smell of burnt cedar before the air itself begins to sound like a light hum or vibration as suddenly Percy's form (poof) appears in the center of the room next to your gatestone. Both of the stones you guys are holding all of a sudden become white-hot, and you instinctively drop them before they tumble to the ground.
Laura: Hey! They work!
Taliesin: They hurt. Good to know.
Sam: That's great. Did you see your sister?
Taliesin: I did, everything is fine up there, the research continues. They're happy to take people.
Laura: That's wonderful.
Taliesin: So, and they are prepared for more. They're also happy to be a base of operations as we put things together.
Laura: And you told them to make preparations in case something happens?
Taliesin: Whatever preparations one can make for something like this, to be prepared to hide. (sighs) For now.
Liam: In the worst-case scenario they can go underground.
Taliesin: Worst-case scenario, they can go underground, yes.
Laura: They need to start hiding food.
Taliesin: They have to grow food, they haven't really recovered that yet. There's also a--
Marisha: Hopefully I hooked them up there.
Taliesin: I have one of those terrible ideas I get on occasion.
Sam: What is it? I love it.
Taliesin: That thing beneath Whitestone could be a weapon.
Sam: How?
Travis: Ooh, that's true.
Laura: Anything touching it disintegrates.
Travis: Yeah! Like a dragon.
Sam: Do you shoot it at something?
Taliesin: I might be able to turn it into a projectile.
Laura: How would you turn it to a projectile-- are you okay, Keyleth?
Liam: It is a fun idea--
Taliesin: A long-term idea.
Marisha: Just choking on Percy's idea.
Taliesin: I can make an antimagic missile.
Marisha: What-- a magic-- a magic missile? An antimagic missile?
Taliesin: An antimagic missile.
Liam: One plus one plus two plus one.
Laura: One plus two plus one plus one!
Sam: That's a great idea.
Taliesin: I've been-- I've been mulling it over.
Sam: Could we fire it from an airship of some sort?
Taliesin: Yes, I have-- that's actually part of the idea.
Marisha: Percy, when I tried to touch that thing it was like it was sucking me in. I don't think that thing and me touched. How are we going to turn it into a projectile?
Taliesin: I have thoughts, I'm going to follow them through, and it may require some experimentation in the future, but I think perhaps--
Marisha: At the cost of possibly your life?
Taliesin: I take my life into my hands any time I build something. I think that a non-magical approach to containing it might actually work. I think the problem is--
Laura: Well that's good, because it cancels out any magic--
Taliesin: I think the problem is that we keep trying to magic our way out of something that denies magic, and maybe I can engineer our way out of it.
Marisha: Have they found anything out, did you get any updates?
Taliesin: A little bit of information, there will be more later. I'm going to take a look at all the data and see if it's possible.
Sam: Should we go visit the Clasp?
Travis: Oh, please.
Taliesin: I'm trying to be more open.
Travis: Yeah, let's go!
Marisha: What time is it?
Matt: At this time? It's pretty close to dusk, the sun is getting close to the mountain line, you probably have another hour of daylight.
Marisha: Okay.
Taliesin: To the Clasp?
Travis: Yeah, they're probably nocturnal anyway. That means they're around at night.
Taliesin: They're not turtles, no.
Marisha: Did you learn something new, Grog?
Travis: What?
Matt: All right, you guys heading back into Emon?
Sam: Everyone? Some? All?
Taliesin: I think Pike should stay behind to take care for--
Marisha: You seem to have reservations--
Sam: Vex, are you okay going down there? You're marked for death by these people.
Laura: I've been down there several times without knowing that.
Sam: I know, I feel like it might put you on edge.
Liam: She's not marked for death, she was marked for death, it's just awkward. It's awkward. I'm not a full-fledged member, they don't like me. I don't like them!
Laura: Maybe I can become a member.
Liam: Maybe you can.
Taliesin: This is politics, you're not supposed to like them.
Liam: Well, let's go, then.
Travis: Yeah! What he said.
Matt: You guys taking the tunnel or you walking in?
Laura: Taking the tunnel, we're taking the secret entrance--
Travis: Oh come on, we're never even-- we've not even walked in yet.
Laura: Garthok showed us the secret entrance, he's waiting for us and having them prepare our way, this could get bad.
Matt: No, are you guys walking through your tunnel to the city, is what I'm saying.
Laura: Oh! That! Yes. Cool.
Liam: We're not going to walk in the open.
Sam: What are we doing?
Laura: We're taking our secret tunnel into the city.
Sam: Okay. It puts us in the wrong side of the city, but it's okay.
Laura: What else are we going to do?
Marisha: (coughing)
Laura: How you doing there? You okay?
Marisha: I'm good. Mm-hmm. Sorry. I got a piece of chip stuck.
Taliesin: No, I'm going to leave one with Vax.
Travis: What is it?
Taliesin: I'm giving Vax my gatestone.
Liam: That's a good idea.
Taliesin: I'm giving you the other one.
Liam: For now, it's a good idea, I won't hold onto it forever.
Taliesin: He's the one who's going to get stuck in a room alone if they decide they don't like him.
Liam: Can we call this the Jenga stone? In moments of need.
Taliesin: Jenga stone. Remember, it takes about a minute to work.
Liam: Do I need to spend a little time with this?
Matt: No. However, it does work only once a day.
Liam: Once a day?
Matt: After another long rest you'd be able to use it again.
Liam: All right. Good to know. All right.
Sam: Into the city.
Laura: In your pants.
Matt: Like you do. Half-elven storage space. You guys find your way back into Emon, utilizing your secret tunnel entrance, coming up through the false outhouse once again. You leave the chain behind, locking it up, and make your way into the city.
Laura: Cast Pass Without a Trace on us.
Matt: All right. You guys, I'd like you all to make a stealth check.
Travis: Come on, giant blue nut ball dice. Natural 20!
Laura: Aw, it fell out of my hand. I don't think it should count if it fell.
Matt: Nope, too bad.
Laura: Aw, that's mean. Oh, I get advantage!
Sam: Oh, and we get a plus ten, right?
Taliesin: 33.
Sam: 15.
Marisha: 35.
Liam: 38. LAURA 35.
Travis: Natural 20.
Sam: Wait. With no judgment, is Trinket coming?
Laura: Trinket is staying with Pike.
Sam: That's a fine decision.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Hell hath frozen over.
Matt: Placing Trinket over here.
Laura: Oh! He's crying! I'm crying.
Matt: So as you guys start dodging between the alleyways, making your way towards the north side of Emon, alongside the ruined interior of the Cloudtop District, you instinctually begin to-- and I'd say-- who else has proficiency in perception?
Liam: Right here.
Matt: All right. You guys all start noticing there are what looks initially like flocks of birds moving through the sky. Some of them are heading down into parts of the town in the distance. As you continue to push forward, one set of four in particular start heading overhead. You look up and you can see a small cluster of about five or six flying creatures. Not dragon-sized, by any means, but either a very, very large bird or something of that degree. You can't make out the details, as right now as the sun's beginning to set, a lot of it's dark against a red-orange sky. You keep yourself at bay, waiting for them to pass.
Marisha: Oh, waiting for them to pass?
Matt: Unless you guys want to do something else.
Laura: As a dragon-favored enemy, could I guesstimate what those winged creatures are that would hang out around dragons?
Travis: Could you determine if they're wyverns?
Matt: Yes. They are actually indeed wyverns. Wivverns. However you want to pronounce it. Both work in my world. It's fine.
Liam: It's pronounced 'jif'.
Matt: Yes. (laughter)
Matt: I will fight you. But yeah.
Sam: They're diving into the city?
Matt: You can see a few that dove into city and stayed there. And one group goes overhead, and continues onward.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Pushing forward, deeper into the city, you make your way through the Temple District, and start pushing through Abdar's Promenade once again, retracing your steps from the day before, dodging through open areas as fast as possible to stay within the shadows. All of you go darting into one of the alleyways. As you turn behind you, you can see your tiny-legged gnomish bard friend, keeping up as best as he can before his foot hitting a divot on the ground and (slam) falling face first on the ground, making just enough noise--
Sam: Sorry. Sorry.
Matt: You hear a little screech in the distance. (screech) And coming up on the rooftop, you can see, perched up there, appears to be one wyvern that is looking over down at the currently toppled gnome, and on top of the wyvern, you see something riding it. Something that is holding reins on the edge, something humanoid is glancing over, just a little enough of a shadow, to see.
Sam: He sees me? I see him?
Matt: He looks down at you, yeah.
Sam: Okay. I will cast Hold Person on him.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I don't know what he is, but I want him to stop.
Liam: And Scanlan's the only one-- we all see it?
Matt: You all barely see it looking over the edge as Scanlan's there, left in the middle of the main walkway. That is going to be a natural 17 on the will save. That'll be an 18. What's your DC?
Sam: Well, it's 17, but the hand-cone makes it 19.
Laura: Ah-ha!
Sam: Do you think I had the wherewithal to use it?
Matt: With having you fallen on your face, I'd say probably not. Since it wasn't specified, that would be a DC of 17. So the creature seems to rear back for a second, shake its head, and you get a little bit of a look at the features at this point, too. And it is humanoid, but you can see its outer body is not fleshy, or smooth, it is scaled and bumpy. You can see ridges across the back of the head, and in one of the hands, looks like some sort of a spear. Immediately as it rears back, it puts its head up and goes (guttural gibberish).
Laura: The creature?
Matt: Yeah, riding on the back of the wyvern.
Laura: Those are the things that attacked the airship!
Sam: Yes. Possibly.
Matt: I would like you all to roll initiative.
Taliesin: This is going to be fun.
Laura: I think you should turn it into a bunny, Keyleth! Turn it into a bunny.
Marisha: Jesus Christ. I can do that today. Just rolled shitty on my initiative.
Liam: Not too good.
Sam: (singing) This is the music that plays when we fight!
Matt: All right, so! Scanlan, as you were running across the thoroughfare, you tripped and fell that way.
Sam: That's me!
Matt: The rest of you had come into this alley over here. Currently, looking over the top of this rooftop, is this wyvern and its rider.
Marisha: I love that the rider is like (derpy noise).
Matt: (imitates derpy noise) It's fine.
Marisha: Go home, rider, you're drunk.
Matt: That's going to be-- 25 to 20?
Taliesin: 26.
Travis: 20.
Matt: 20. All right, 20 to 15?
Laura: 18.
Matt: 18, let's see. Vex. 15 to ten?
Sam: Yikes.
Matt: Ten to five?
Sam: Eight! No, seven.
Marisha: Five.
Matt: (laughs) Okay.
Taliesin: Wow.
Liam: Uno!
Matt: Plus?
Liam: Oh, six, thanks for that.
Matt: So you would be-- actually, technically, Keyleth, is next to you.
Liam: That was so crushing, to see the number on the die.
Matt: Aw, sorry buddy. It happens to the best of us. All righty. So. Currently with this guy up on top of the rooftop, Percy, you are first.
Taliesin: Quick question, is he in flight, or is he just sitting on the rooftop?
Matt: Just sitting on the roof, perched on the edge. You can't even actually see him, everyone else who's near the front can see, the few that made the check. You've got a little bit of movement up there, but you're just out of view with the building-- you're right in an alleyway.
Taliesin: There's no easy way up onto the roof, is there?
Matt: Aside from a well-placed acrobatics check. You could try.
Taliesin: That would be my whole movement, too, wouldn't it, though?
Matt: Most likely.
Taliesin: Nah, let's see.
Travis: And how high is the roof?
Matt: I'd say it's about anywhere from 16 to 20 feet tall. It's two-story, but it's not extremely well-built.
Taliesin: I'm going to try to get a vantage point where I can at least get where he's only three-quarters cover. So I suppose I'm going to head south down the alley to see if I can get a--
Matt: Pushing to these guys?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, so one-- You can get to about there if you want to.
Taliesin: I can get a good look at him there.
Matt: You can see, yeah. He'll have half-cover from there.
Taliesin: Half-cover's fine. So, if I were to knock him prone, would he fall off the roof, or could I try and push him off the roof? These are my--
Matt: For the wyvern, or for the rider?
Taliesin: The wyvern.
Matt: You can try. It's hard-pressed, he's sturdy on the side, knocking him prone might fall over onto the rooftop. Who knows if it'll slide or not. It's your call. What do you want to try?
Taliesin: I'll try knocking him prone, and see if that does it.
Matt: Okay!
Taliesin: Actually--
Sam: Do it!
Taliesin: Yeah, it's either that or try and push him off the roof, which could be pretty funny. I'll try and knock him prone.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: All right. So I'm going to use Bad News, because that's funnier.
Matt: Okay. So (whoosh) you whip out.
Taliesin: Take a shot. That's a 28 to hit.
Matt: That'll hit.
Taliesin: And that's a wing shot, so you have to make a constitution saving throw.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Against 18.
Matt: Well, this is the wing or leg shot, right?
Taliesin: Wing or leg shot. I'm sorry, that's a-- Actually, I'm sorry, I have the new sheet.
Matt: Yeah, new sheet on that one. Updated that.
Taliesin: Strength saving throw. Sorry, strength saving throw against 18.
Matt: Okay. That's a natural 19 plus four for strength, so that's a 23 on the save.
Taliesin: Motherfucker, but he'll still take some damage.
Matt: Still takes damage though, go ahead and roll.
Taliesin: I'm going to take another shot at him, too, because eff that. I was not quite prepared for this. 2d12 plus six, four, eight, 14 points of damage.
Matt: 14 points of damage, nice. All right.
Taliesin: And I'm going to take a-- reload, take another shot and try and knock him off the roof.
Matt: Go for it. The same shot?
Taliesin: Same shot. Ugh. That's a three, so that means I--
Matt: Misfire.
Sam: Clank!
Matt: So, first shot of Bad News, (explosion noise) echoes, the sound of the blast rippling through the nearby alleyways, the blast hits the wyvern in part of its arm, sending a spray of blood as it shrieks in pain. As you can see its rider is moved to the side, and you see a second head behind the rider from the reaction of movement. Looks like there's actually two of these creatures riding on the back of this creature. As you go to reload, bring Bad News up again to fire a second time, you pull the trigger and there's a (thump) sound, and you can see now a stream of smoke pouring out the back of the gun itself, and you're a little worried what this is going to do if you don't fix it soon.
Travis: Look down the barrel!
Sam: Yeah, that'll work.
Taliesin: I can use my-- I actually can't do-- Am I going to panic and try and fix this?
Matt: Next turn? That's your movement, that's your three attacks, do you have a bonus? Anything?
Taliesin: I can-- I'm going to, I'm going to throw an action surge and see if I can fix this.
Matt: Go for it. Go ahead and make your tinker check.
Taliesin: Yes! Yeah, 14.
Matt: So you spend your action quickly trying to fix the gun and get Bad News back. You manage to clear the barrel, get the pellet out, as the rest of the team starts coming up with their turns. That'll be the rest of your action. Okay, finishes Percy's turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I'd like to hold my turn until it gets off the roof and maybe comes down to the ground.
Matt: Okay, okay, good to know. Let's see here. It appears that my-- Taliesin, could you do me a favor and hand me that box next to the fridge there?
Taliesin: Sure.
Matt: Thank you. All right, so Grog, as you're doing that, the blasting sound of Bad News that echoed through, you all of a sudden start hearing other shrieks in the distance, like a call to arms of a number of other entities.
Marisha: Oh boy.
Matt: As you see a multitude of other winged creatures begin to arise in the distance.
Taliesin: I shouldn't have gotten him that box, should I?
Marisha: Was that in the box?
Travis: Yeah, we could always run, too.
Taliesin: Could.
Sam: How far are we from the tunnel system? Far.
Matt: You're a ways. Probably a good 25-minute run. There's another one on the roof over here. And there's one on this roof here. Each one of them with their own riders, as well.
Laura: Shit.
Matt: Now. All right, so for this turn, this one leaps off and swoops down here to where Percy is while both of its riders leap off to the side. One that leaps off and rushes over to Scanlan on the ground, and this other one that gets right up next to Percy. This one goes flying forward and lands in the center to about there. Two of its riders leap off. This one stays up in the air over this way in a flanking position-- or in a visual perspective with two of its riders on its back. Put them there.
Liam: For clarification, does this count as turns, or are they, since they're coming late to the party, or this is just them in position?
Matt: This is them now entering the fray.
Liam: Are they into the initiative order, just gameplay talk?
Matt: Yeah. Well, this is the initiative I rolled for them after being called by the guy who was already shouting out into the air.
Laura: Oh, right, right, right.
Matt: You didn't see them before, given your perspective. These guys leap off over here-- over there. Okay. So we have, first the wyvern that swooped down on you, Percy, is going to go ahead and make an attack with its bite and an attack with its stinger as a multiattack. So that first strike, that is going to be a-- The bite, 13?
Taliesin: That does not hit.
Matt: The stinger, however, is a 19.
Taliesin: I'm going to use my Amulet of the Shield and up my AC for that attack to 23, so.
Matt: Yeah. So that will miss. So that uses the Amulet. Good to know. So the stinger goes to strike you after the bite misses, and as you grasp your chest, you can see now an arcane barrier shines in front of you and completely ricochets the stinger out into the air to the side as it reacts angrily. The other giant humanoid lizard creature that's coming towards you with a giant heavy club is going to attempt to slam you with it.
Laura: There's so many things!
Matt: Twice. Well, it's going to attack you with its club, that's going to be a 17.
Taliesin: Nope.
Matt: And then it's going to try and slam you with a spike shield. That is 15.
Taliesin: Nope.
Matt: So that guy starts swinging at you loosely.
Taliesin: I'm sword out. Yeah.
Matt: All right. Attacking you, Scanlan.
Sam: Oh. Shit.
Matt: The one that's on the ground there. All right. So it has two attacks against you with advantage.
Sam: With advantage?
Matt: Because you're prone. You're on the ground. That'll be a 24 to hit.
Sam: Yeah, yeah, okay.
Matt: And the spike shield is going to be a 24 again, actually.
Laura: Oh no!
Matt: So as you're on the ground, it slams you with a shield for 12 points of bludgeoning damage.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: Why didn't I bring Trinket?
Sam: I know! What's wrong with you?
Matt: The shield slams you for eight points of piercing damage. So a total of 20 points of damage as (whack) slams you into the ground twice.
Laura: I thought this was a stealthing mission!
Matt: It was until he rolled a 15 stealth.
Sam: Blame me, blame me.
Matt: Those wyverns are too far away for combat. The other guys are just assisting the scenario here.
Liam: Percy shot at them.
Matt: Okay. There's one fellow over here that is a bit far away who steps off. Instead of holding the same clubs and shields or other various hack weapons, he's carrying a gnarled staff.
Sam: Oh, shit.
Matt: Steps forward and sees the weapon that you fired twice and had been fixing, this large metallic dangerous entity, looks forward and begins hissing under his breath (hissing gibberish).
Sam: Do I see this?
Matt: You do.
Sam: I'm going to release my--
Matt: Though you are being slammed on the ground. I'd say make a perception check, actually, to see if you see this.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Because you are currently--
Sam: 19!
Matt: Yes, actually, I will say you do see this.
Sam: I will release my Counterspell.
Matt: Okay!
Sam: I assume he's casting something.
Matt: He is, actually--
Travis: Or has a terrible cold.
Sam: And I will-- I will sing at him, (singing) And you still haven't hit what you're aiming for!
Matt: That's a second-level spell, it is dispelled immediately. As he'd attempted to Heat Metal on your weapon, you can see as the metal begins to glow for a moment and you could feel the heat welling in your hand, all of a sudden the spell (crack) is shattered, like the sound of thin glass in the distance as Scanlan shouts to intercept its arcane ability. That is going to end their opening turn. That brings us down to the initiative order. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Oh, I think Grog was before me.
Matt: Oh, right, Grog, you're holding your action first.
Travis: Right. Can I barrel down through the alley now that someone's on the ground, and race towards the one that's nearest Percy?
Matt: I'll say sure. Usually, going forward, if you hold your action, that's just your action, not your movement, you still move to the situation, but I'll let it stand for this, it's fine.
Travis: I'll remember that going forward.
Matt: Yeah. So you're going to tear down to this guy there?
Travis: Yeah. I would like-- and I would like to swing twice with Craven.
Matt: Go for it. Still maintaining your bonuses from last game, by the way. You haven't taken a short rest yet.
Laura: Oh my gosh!
Travis: Yes indeed.
Laura: He's so strong from the last game.
Travis: Plus-- That's 26.
Matt: 26 hits.
Travis: And a 14 on the second one.
Matt: 14 does not hit. This is the Great Weapon Master?
Travis: No, these are regular attacks.
Laura: You didn't rage yet?
Matt: Did you rage?
Travis: Yeah. Oh! No, I did not.
Matt: Do you want to rage as part of your bonus action to this?
Travis: I would like to rage.
Matt: Okay. Figures. All right, so as your bonus action you go into a rage before you strike. Go for it.
Travis: 12-- 22? Oh, wait. Yep, 22.
Matt: 22 damage. All right. The second strike missed.
Travis: Oh, that's right. 22, that's it.
Matt: 22. So you rush forward, slam the sword into the side of the lizard creature. It puts its shield up and it manages to block most of the blow, but it still slides off and slams into part of its neck area. It shoves the blade out. However, it fails its save.
Travis: Yes!
Matt: Take a strength point off of it and add that to what you have now. What's your strength currently?
Travis: 22.
Matt: So it goes up another plus one to attack and damage. If it became 22, it does.
Travis: Yes.
Matt: All right. Grog, that ends your turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Is there anywhere I can stand that I get a good cone shape? Or am I all blocked in?
Matt: You can try to move through. You might get an attack of opportunity from the guy that's attacking Grog.
Laura: Okay, how high is the roof next to me?
Matt: It's about 16, 20 feet.
Laura: Could I acrobatics that shit up?
Matt: You could try to. Go for it.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: Parkour!
Laura: Hold on. Oh! 31?
Matt: With that, you look over and see the rooftop up there. You leap off each side, Ninja Gaiden-style. Hop onto the rooftop with a solid view of the entire battlefield before you, including the one flying creature up there.
Laura: Oh, okay. Then I'm going to Hunter's Mark the magic user.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: And I'm going to Conjure Barrage in a cone to get as many of those fucks as I can.
Matt: Okay, so it's a 60-foot cone. Right there?
Laura: Yeah, sure. Sorry, Scanlan.
Matt: You will hit Scanlan, as well.
Sam: Oh, balls! I'm a little man!
Matt: All right, so go ahead and roll for that.
Laura: 3d8.
Matt: Yeah, roll 3d8 damage.
Sam: 3d8 damage?
Matt: Yeah!
Laura: It's not that much. 16, and then an extra d6 on that guy. An extra six.
Matt: Okay, so does he make his save? He does not.
Sam: Do I have to make a save?
Matt: Yes, you do.
Sam: What kind of save?
Matt: This would be a dexterity saving throw.
Sam: And I'm on the ground. That's a nine.
Matt: You take 16 points of damage from that. That's a fail, and a success. So 16. The wyvern makes that, so half that for eight. He fails. All right, cool. Got it. So as you go forward, leaping up on top, you mark the one guy, turn around, and release a torrent of arrows that sprays into the center of this open pathway of the city. I believe that ends your turn.
Laura: Yes, it does.
Matt: All right, that brings us to Scanlan.
Sam: Oh, me?
Matt: Yep.
Sam: Balls. Shit. I'm on the ground. If I stand up, that's my action?
Matt: It's half your movement.
Sam: That's half my movement. Okay, I'll stand up. He doesn't get to hit me, right?
Matt: Not unless you move away from him.
Sam: Okay. Which riders are still on their beasts?
Matt: These two are the only two that are still on their beasts.
Sam: I will ignore the guy next to me and I will Hand Cone it up, and I will-- he's got two riders?
Matt: Yeah, they have these ramshackle-- you can see now with a closer look, these leather kind of saddles? But they're mostly thrown leathers that are strapped to its back, and there's two of them holding onto these knobs in front to stay on.
Sam: Two riders?!
Laura: Come on, Scanlan.
Sam: I guess I'll Dominate one of them. The main guy.
Laura: Can you Dominate the beast?
Sam: He's not a person.
Matt: There's Dominate Person and Dominate Monster. They're two different things.
Sam: I'm going to dominate the guy in front.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Maverick, not Hollywood.
Travis: It's Maverick and Goose!
Sam: Well, at the end, it was Hollywood.
Travis: No, it was Merlin.
Sam: Merlin?!
Travis: Yeah. Tim Robbins.
Sam: Merlin was the teacher, the guy who spun out. Hollywood was the guy who was his--
Travis: You don't want to do this with me.
Taliesin: This is the first conversation I've ever been in in this group where I feel young.
Matt: The rider's screeching down while it's holding on, and all of a sudden it shakes its head for a minute and looks down at you, eyes connected, and you know that this entity is waiting for its command.
Sam: Can I only give it one command per turn?
Matt: You can give it a basic command and it will follow it through, unless you wanted to directly control it.
Sam: Well, I've got two things to do. He's got to get rid of that fucker on his back, and also other things. Let's go for the big kahuna. I command him to ride his beast to attack the one below him. The wyvern below him.
Matt: Okay. All right, good to know. And do you want to stay where you are? Do you want to move?
Sam: No, I don't want to move because he'll hit me. That would be bad. Who hasn't gone? You haven't gone.
Taliesin: Vax hasn't gone--
Sam: Vax hasn't gone? Oh my god.
Laura: No. because he rolled a one, remember?
Liam: Yup!
Sam: Okay. I will inspire Vax with my inspiration. And I will say: This is ground control to Major Vax, you've really made the blade. And the papers want to know whose blood you spilled!
Matt: (laughs) All right, take your d10 inspiration die.
Liam: d10. Yes.
Sam: Rest in peace.
Matt: All right. That's Scanlan's turn. Vax, you're up.
Liam: So I'm having trouble seeing the battle map. Grog is right against a wyvern, right?
Matt: Grog is against a lizard-like creature--
Liam: Oh, so not against a wyvern?
Matt: No. That's a little bit away. But Percy is next to it.
Liam: Oh, so Percy is right there?
Matt: Correct, yes.
Liam: And Scanlan's next to the magic user, right?
Matt: The magic user's over here, that's been Hunter's Marked.
Liam: Scanlan's up against a dude, right? All right, so what I want to do is slink up behind Percy, reach over-- oh, no, I want to click my Boots of Haste, is what I want to do.
Matt: Did you use them during the battle against the looters?
Liam: I don't think so.
Travis: I don't remember him doing it.
Liam: No, I didn't. No I didn't, I definitely didn't, because I remember kicking myself for-- I definitely didn't. Okay so, click, everybody starts moving slower around me. I want to-- so Percy's against the wyvern, I want to reach over Percy's shoulder and stab the wyvern, and then I want to throw another dagger at the dude standing next to Scanlan.
Matt: On this side there, you mean?
Liam: Yeah. Well, I can't tell, I can't see shit-- is that over Percy's shoulder?
Matt: Because right now you're being blocked, you can't quite get to the wyvern unless you move around the building that you left.
Liam: But I can go around it, yes, let's do that. I'm going to stab the wyvern in the butt, and then I'm going to throw a dagger from my other hand at the guy standing next to Scanlan-- I've got a question for you. Because both of them have somebody who's running interference, do I get sneak attack damage on both?
Matt: You only get one sneak attack damage per turn.
Liam: Just per turn?
Matt: Once per turn.
Liam: All right. So I'm going to use sneak attack damage on the wyvern if I get it.
Matt: Go for it! So first strike against it, as you (whoosh) whip around the side of the building, blades out--
Liam: 25!
Matt: That hits!
Liam: And then for the dude by Scanlan gets a-- word, 19.
Matt: Yep. If you have both blades out, you get a third attack too, don't forget.
Liam: I do. Oh-- yes. So the third stab will go back at the wyvern.
Matt: Okay! So the sneak attack against the wyvern, first strike.
Liam: Yeah, and the last one was a 24 total, so that hits as well. Okay! So that's two, one, yes. That's 14, 17, 22, 23, 25, 27, 29 into the wyvern.
Matt: All right.
Liam: And then the jerk over by Scanlan gets seven.
Sam: Yes!
Liam: And then the wyvern takes another, the Keen Dagger, takes another nine.
Matt: All righty. So, as you rush around, you stab the wyvern on the back of its haunches and you see it shrieks in pain (screeches), looks over its shoulder and starts biting its tail, its stinger swinging about, but you avoid it, fling the other dagger to the side and then jam the other side of its haunches with your other hand. It's definitely aware of your presence now.
Liam: Did I use up all my movement?
Matt: Nope!
Liam: Knowing that it can swat at me, I'm going to try to go right back around where I came from.
Matt: All right.
Liam: And I'm wearing the Cloak of Displacement.
Matt: Okay. It's going to swing at you with disadvantage.
Sam: Just call it cloak number seven.
Matt: That's a two on the first roll, so yeah. That misses you. (whoosh) Its stinger swings out towards you and you duck underneath, it slams to the side of the building, breaking part of the wood, you can see splinters fly out to the middle of the road. That ends your turn?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: All right. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. How far away am I from this guy, like-- roughly how many feet?
Matt: Roughly--
Marisha: The guy who's in the air, flying.
Matt: I'd say about 60, 65 feet.
Marisha: Beautiful. I want to move up and around-- here-ish.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Sorry, I've got this thing in the way. Back a little bit-- scoot back. Is that still in your path?
Sam: No, he's my guy.
Marisha: He's your--? Oh. Well, I'm not going to fuck with him. I'm going to-- you Dominated the guy?
Sam: I Dominated the guy.
Marisha: Should I turn the wyvern into something else?
Sam: I don't know. I don't know.
Marisha: Should I Polymorph him? Yeah, I guess he's Dom-- you are Dominating that guy. Is there anything else that's flying? He's the only one that's up in the air left, right?
Matt: Yeah, all the other wyverns have landed and let their riders off on the sides.
Marisha: So you commanded him to attack the one below you, right? I'm going to turn that wyvern into a-- chicken!
Matt: This one?
Marisha: Yes!
Matt: Okay. What's the save on that?
Marisha: Poof! He has to make a wisdom save.
Matt: That is a seven!
Marisha: Fail!
Matt: And with that-- (laughs) The wyvern-- (laughs) Twice now--
Marisha: (laughs) This is my favourite game, you guys!
Matt: The bane of wyverns everyone-- (swoop, chicken noise). As both the riders tumble off, slamming into the ground (sound of impact). That would be-- Okay, ten points of damage to the wyvern, which kills the chicken form entirely. It turns back to a wyvern on the ground, taking the excess three damage.
Laura: Yeah-- (laughs) Keyleth.
Marisha: Fuck.
Laura: Shit! (laughs)
Matt: What?
Sam: Do I keep hold of my guy?
Matt: The riders fall also, they both take an additional 14 points of damage to each of them from the fall.
Marisha: They all took damage-- and they're on the ground now.
Matt: Let's see if it takes damage and makes a new saving throw against the spell. Does not make it, so it is still Dominated.
Sam: Oh. Okay. Thank God.
Marisha: I didn't fuck it up this time.
Matt: But they are all-- all three of them are considered prone for now. They are all knocked prone.
Marisha: Cool. That's my turn.
Matt: All right, ends Keyleth's turn. At the top, Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Okay. Where am I, I can't see--
Matt: You're right here, you're blocked in between the two buildings, the mouth of the alleyway, with a wyvern and lizard creature right there, standing before you.
Taliesin: Okay, I have no advantage on any of these bastards at the moment if I were to attack. Okay, that's fine. And how would you describe-- these are like scaly people?
Matt: This up close and personal, they are humanoid in build, they have, you know, stand up upright, they have long tails, ridges across the head, they're bigger than an actual human and they're very muscular, and the more you look at it, you can see that their clothing, they have tattered cloth and leathers that have been haphazardly dyed in blood and gore to all be a very, very deep red color. And they're pretty uniform across what they are wearing.
Laura: They're an army.
Sam: Team colors.
Taliesin: I think you've got that one guy covered at the moment, so I'll concentrate on the--hmm. Tough call, tough call. You know what, I'll have a little fun. I'm going to pull my sword and I'm going to take a slash at the guy who's involved with--
Matt: All right, go for it.
Taliesin: That's 21.
Matt: 21 hits.
Taliesin: Oh shit, I forgot to use my bonus action. Can I pop in a quick bonus before that?
Matt: For what?
Taliesin: Hex him.
Matt: You've already hexed today. You used it in the battle versus the looters.
Taliesin: Oh, it's--
Sam: Same day.
Taliesin: That's right. Still the same hour. It can only do it once a day, right? That's all right. That's fine, I can just do a little thing. So, just add to this, would he be described in anywhere on his little D&D card as something with a dragon keyword?
Matt: Nope!
Taliesin: So I'm just going to do normal damage to him?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: Okay. So--
Matt: Wyverns, however--
Taliesin: All right, just checking. I'm going to do nine points of damage, slashing damage, to him.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: And I'm going to turn to the wyvern, and take two slashes at the wyvern.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: First is-- ew. 14?
Matt: 14 hits.
Taliesin: Wow.
Matt: They're sacks of hit points, but they don't have lot of armor to them.
Taliesin: That's 19 plus-- 26 points of damage.
Matt: Nice!
Taliesin: And second shot-- 13, 24, yeah, that hits. Ten, 17, 18, 19, 26 points of damage.
Matt: 26 twice in a row. So with this you pull the sword out, as soon as you see it in the proximity of the wyvern, the blade itself almost seems to shimmer with this gleam of green on it, like the metal almost seems to bend and wave with your movements. And as you turn back around to slash at the wyvern, the blade cuts through it like butter, there's not even resistance, it goes right through its flesh. With each slash of the longsword, you can see large chunks of its muscle coming visible as parts of its body are now being pulled from the muscle and sinew. It shrieks in pain, you can see it angrily now starting to get ready to rake at you pretty heavily. That end your turn?
Taliesin: That's my turn.
Matt: All righty. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Yeah, I'm going to continue where I started on, shitfucker out in front of me.
Matt: Okay! (laughs)
Travis: But I would like to go Great Weapon Master and I would like to use Reckless Attack.
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: Wow, wow. Wow.
Sam: Reckless.
Matt: Roll your first attack against him.
Travis: That's a 31.
Matt: Roll damage on that.
Travis: 25?
Matt: 25? He fails his save, so you get another plus one to your strength, and that swing just cleaves it in two. It goes (whoosh) right through its midsection, it (gurgles). It tumbles off, falling to the ground.
Laura: Oh my god. Grog.
Liam: Grog is full juicing.
Travis: I told you he'd open up to me! (laughter)
Matt: You can move in now with your movement and do your next attack, if you'd like.
Travis: I'll go ahead and take care of that wyvern that's next to me.
Matt: Go for it, all right, so now you get your next attack.
Travis: Natural 20.
Matt: Go ahead and roll damage.
Liam: Does his strength go up to 100 eventually?
Matt: It's double your first dice roll--
Travis: 19-- oh, so the 2d6 was nine, plus five is--
Matt: So 18.
Travis: Plus 11.
Matt: So 29, plus two additional die rolls.
Travis: Ten.
Matt: Okay. So we're at--
Matt: 39.
Travis: 39.
Marisha: 39.
Matt: And then one more? Because you roll 2d-- it's twice, because of Brutal Critical.
Liam: Jeez, you got like Tetsuo arm, it's like five times bigger than it should be.
Travis: Four. Four for those two, do I plus five to that as well for the--
Matt: Well, plus ten for your-- you already added that for your--
Travis: Yes, 2d6 plus five on each one and the--
Matt: No, it's just the additional 2d6 each time.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: So yeah, with that you turn around after hacking its friend, leaping forward (grunts), foam at the corner of your mouth, your eyes bloodshot and angry. You take the blade and sweep it down, and it plunges itself right into the wound that Percy had left open with his sword swing, finding no resistance before it comes all the way to the hilt in the body of the wyvern, which shrieks for a moment (screeches) before its breath stops and its body falls limp.
Sam: Yeah, one down!
Matt: Does make its save, though.
Travis: Oh, yeah, and on Great Weapon Master on a crit or killing an extra hit, but I guess I--?
Matt: As a bonus action! For the record, going forward, if you're frenzied raging it doesn't really give you a benefit, but if you're not, it does help. So in theory, you could if you wanted to try and chuck it.
Travis: (laughs) Just throw it? Don't throw it?
Matt: What are you going to do, Grog?
Travis: I'm good, I'm good.
Matt: Ends Grog's turn. All right. Now these guys both get up, currently no longer on the wyvern. Did you want to give it another kind of a thought, if you see it land?
Sam: Get on the wyvern and kill the other one.
Matt: Okay. This guy gets up on the wyvern, grabs its reins, pulls it forward, and jams it with its spear as it leads it inward. It runs forward and is going to take a swing-- It's going to take a swing with its stinger at the one behind it. It's confused and figuring out what's-- why is it doing this, it's more of like-- this might work once. That is going to be a-- 17, it hits! That's going to be 11 points of damage, does it make its save? It does not make its save, that's an additional 24 points of poison damage on that one. So that's 35 points of damage, one wyvern to another. (laughs) As this guy immediately whips around angrily.
Sam: You have pleased me. (laughter)
Matt: Both of these guys go charging forward here.
Laura: Oh no, Scanlan!
Matt: It's going to pull up its javelin and chuck it at you, Vex.
Laura: Me?
Matt: Yeah. That is going to miss you at a 12. It (swoosh) throws, the javelin arcs past you. This one over here is going to come forward and it's going to take a javelin as well out and chuck it right at you, Grog.
Travis: Heh, you're dead.
Matt: That is a 20 to hit.
Travis: Hits.
Matt: You take ten points of piercing damage, reduced to five, as you basically (impact)--
Travis: (snapping noise)
Matt: (laughs) Snap it off and grin in its face.
Travis: Let me return that favor in a second.
Liam: Grog is on god mode.
Marisha: (laughs) Save game plus.
Matt: (laughs) --now it sees the danger that you're in, looks at you, sees you hack through the center of one of the wyverns, intensely looks at you and begins casting another spell.
Travis: Oh shit.
Matt: Like it is wont to do.
Marisha: Is it?
Travis: Come on, smart Grog.
Matt: All right. So, Craven Edge, as you're holding it, all of a sudden the handle becomes white hot and you immediately take six points of fire damage just holding it.
Sam: Grip it harder! (groan)
Matt: Fire's biting through. Three attacks against you, Scanlan.
Sam: Oh, God.
Matt: Currently two of which are flanking you, so they're going to have advantage on the attacks. So that's a natural 20 on one of them. This guy is-- 18. That hits. And then this guy here without the advantage-- still hits with a 17.
Sam: I'm going to use Cutting Words on the last guy.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I'm going to just-- (plays flute badly) to distract him.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and roll a d10.
Sam: d10. Which one's ten, I never remember. This one. Nine!
Matt: Okay! So he rolled a 17 plus seven, that would've been a 24, that brings him to 15, which I believe misses you. So the last strike, as he swings towards you, the shrilling tones, it causes him to reach up and grab one of his lizard-like ear holes and (snarling) the swing goes wildly over your head. However, as you duck down, you look up as you see the shadow come down of two large clubs that (boom boom) over the head of your tiny gnomish form. That's going to be-- (groans)
Sam: Oh, that's not a good sound.
Matt: Oh, and they also get bites after this, too. All right, so you take 12, which would double to 24-- Oh, no, sorry, 12-- 20 points of bludgeoning damage from one. You take 12 points of damage from the other. So 32 points of damage total. And they're both going to attempt to bite you as well, with advantage.
Sam: A bite with advantage!
Matt: That is a 20 on the first one.
Sam: That's the damage it does?
Matt: That's to hit. And that one's going to -- double 19, so they both hit. So you take another 20 points of damage total of piercing damage as they both start tearing into your body.
Laura: 52 points of damage just then?
Sam: (rasping breath)
Laura: No, Scanlan!
Marisha: No, you're still up, you're still up! I thought you said you had 55!
Sam: I did.
Laura: 52!
Marisha: It was 52 total.
Laura: You have three points left.
Sam: Ah! That was close, guys. I saw my mother! Then I saw myself at math class, failing.
Matt: I need you to make a bunch of concentration checks here.
Sam: Oh yeah. Okay.
Matt: To maintain control over it, yeah.
Sam: Advantage on concentration checks.
Matt: Yeah, so just roll two at a time.
Sam: Two whats?
Matt: Two d20s.
Sam: Well, I only have one d20.
Matt: Adding your constitution modifier to it.
Sam: How many-- oh, for each thing that-- constitution modifier. Holy God. Okay. I'm counting both of those, the first one's only 12.
Matt: 12, that'll work, because none of them-- only one of them did 20 damage and it's minimum of ten, so as long as you get above a ten with each one, you're fine.
Sam: Okay. So I got to do two more?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Yeah, that's 16 plus two.
Matt: Okay. Another one.
Sam: 17 plus two.
Matt: Another one.
Sam: Two plus two.
Matt: You have advantage on these.
Sam: Seven plus two. Nine.
Matt: Nine. Nope.
Sam: No good. No bueno.
Matt: With that, you lose your concentration on the Domination spell. As that fades--
Laura: That's okay. The other wyvern is still mad at the first one, so that's good.
Matt: So that ends their turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Oh man. Okay.
Matt: You see Scanlan being tossed around on the ground, and then you see streaks of blood in the air as one of them tears a big chunk out of his shoulder.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: He looks up at you briefly, his eyes half-open.
Laura: Scanlan! I got you!
Sam: No, no, I know you did. You shot me on the last turn, I remember. Yeah, you got me good! You got me good!
Laura: I shoot from my Bow of the Sky Sentinel.
Matt: Sky Sentinel, I believe, did you use that last battle?
Laura: Fuck.
Matt: I'm pretty sure you did.
Laura: I did, but I only used my burning thingy once, so I can do that. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. So I'm going to move my Hunter's Mark to one of the guys around Scanlan.
Matt: Okay. Do you want to say the most wounded of them?
Laura: Yeah, sure.
Matt: That would be--
Laura: Or the least wounded of them, actually.
Matt: The least wounded would be this one.
Laura: Okay. And then I'm going to shoot-- I'm going to shoot arrows.
Matt: All right!
Laura: All right. I'm going to shoot through my Blazing Bowstring on that guy and the guy in front of him.
Matt: Okay. Right there and there?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: So Blazing Bowstring, and then regular. Go for it.
Laura: Okay. So I forget how to do that. I roll to attack. Why is this so hard?! Okay, 18!
Matt: 18 hits.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to roll damage on that one, which is ten plus my normal eight. 12, 14 plus six for Hunter's Mark. 20 plus six for sneak attack, bitch!
Liam: Did you just call the DM a bitch?
Laura: No, I was calling that guy a bitch.
Sam: Matt does not deserve that kind of language.
Laura: 6d6. So that's 25 damage against the first guy.
Matt: 25 damage? That's just enough. Say goodbye to him. That sneak attack was just what you needed, that was the last bit of damage.
Laura: Yay! Okay, so the second guy is another 18.
Matt: Another 18? That hits.
Laura: Actually no, that's a 20-whatever. Yeah. Okay. 14, 15, 16. Do I get sneak attack on him, too?
Matt: Can only sneak attack once per turn.
Laura: Dang it. So 16 damage against that guy.
Matt: 16 damage, okay. So this arrow-- The first one hits it in the neck and he gurgles and falls to the ground and bleeds out on the floor next to Scanlan. The other one, the arrow strikes it in the middle of its shoulderblades and it arcs up in pain, but it's still standing. Though it's having to really move around with much pain in its face. That end your turn? You going to stay up there?
Laura: I'm going to-- yeah.
Matt: Staying up on the rooftop, sniping down. Good call. That brings us to Scanlan!
Sam: It's my turn?!
Laura: Take a potion! Heal yourself!
Sam: Oh yeah! If I had a potion, that would be great! I will do Thunderwave-- Thunderwave at third level.
Matt: Thunderwave at third level, all righty.
Liam: Dissention in the ranks.
Matt: (laughs) Okay, so that is 4d8 thunder damage to all the ones on a failed save. So, their constitution saves here. Is this through a hand cone?
Sam: Sure, man.
Matt: Figured-- both fail!
Sam: What is it, 4d8?
Matt: It's 4d8 thunder damage. They are pushed ten feet away from you.
Sam: Did they all fail? Did they both fail?
Matt: Yes. This pushed this way. This pushed that way.
Sam: Ten. 17!
Matt: 17 points of damage to each. Okay! They're blasted backward, barely catching themselves on their feet. And from the impact, you can see what little bit of red-colored leather armor they have on is tattered and destroyed. You can see blood pouring out of the sides of their earholes where the thunderous blast possibly burst their eardrums. And they're both like, shaking their head. All right.
Sam: Bonus action, I will Healing Word myself--
Matt: (laughing) Okay.
Sam: I can do that at higher levels? Yes?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: I'll do it at a level four.
Matt: (laughing) Okay.
Sam: And I will sing to myself; sadly, pathetically, (breathy) I get knocked down, but I get up again. Ain't never going to keep me down. (laughter)
Matt: All right! So that is 4d4 plus five healing to yourself.
Sam: Okay, 4d4 plus five-- That's 14 plus five.19.
Matt: 19. So you heal yourself 19 hit points. That ends your turn. Up next, Vax.
Liam: I'm going to scramble up to the top of the building that I'm right next to.
Matt: Acrobatics check.
Liam: Sure. No problem. Yeah, way high. 20-- 33.
Matt: Yeah. You parkour up the side, land on top of the rooftop. Leap across and you're now at the edge.
Liam: Is that Percy right there?
Matt: That's Percy right there.
Liam: Okay. Oh, who's right directly in a row, away from me? Yeah, I can't tell. It's a bad guy?
Matt: It's a bad guy, bad guy. Bad guy, bad guy, bad guy.
Liam: I want to run, actually, and I want to jump off and land next to Percy. Yeah. I want to run straight by and I want to stab the dude. I'm going to run forward, yeah. Stab that guy. (laughter)
Liam: Yeah, exactly. That is 20.
Matt: That hits, roll damage.
Sam: Run, run, run. Stab. Run, run, run. Stab. Those are the two buttons on the Vax video game. (laughter)
Sam: Run and stab.
Liam: Nine.
Matt: Nine damage?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: (grunt) You shank him in the side and he tumbles over. (cheering)
Liam: Run towards Scanlan, and I want to grapple him. Hopefully he just takes it. No, not that far. One square back. Right there! Grab him. And I'm using my bonus action to dash and then drag him backward, behind Grog.
Matt: It's an action to grapple someone who would be against it, are you letting him grapple you?
Sam: Oh, hell yes.
Matt: I'll say for the sake of the--
Liam: Right, two actions and a bonus action, mix them around, Matt!
Matt: Yeah, it's fine, because he wants to. You rush forward, you grab him, and you're dragging him back this way?
Liam: And then back-- yeah, right behind Grog, and I drag him behind Vex and Grog, back by Keyleth. (airplane noise)
Matt: Okay. I'll say that's about as far as you get because you have a bit of movement taken away, even though you are hasted, because he's not too heavy, but he's still a gnome.
Liam: Right. Dash-- hasted, I can go very very far.
Sam: Your hands are so rough and masculine.
Liam: I spank him on the ass and say, you're welcome, shorty.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to push my way through the crowd a little bit. Can I have that laser pointer?
Liam: Yes, you may.
Marisha: Thank you. Okay. (grandiose voice) And now with all of the rage, thinking about all--
Sam: "I turn someone into a chicken."
Marisha: I-- boof! Boof! Boof! I want some feather-down pillows for our loft. I channel all of my Fire Ashari ancestors. And I cast my 7th-level Firestorm!
Sam: Oh god, we're all going to die.
Marisha: So as I concentrate, enraged at the sight of dragons, I have ten--
Sam: (whispers) Did you get me away from-- because I--
Marisha: Yes, you're fine. You're fine. No, he didn't get you away because he knew this was happening, it just happened to work out. So ten ten-foot cubes-- They all have to be connected. Exactly, I'm going to start here and I'll work my way over. They're ten-foot-- remember, they're ten-foot. But they're attached. So they're bigger than that.
Matt: Three-- well, they're ten foot by ten foot, which is about this size.
Marisha: Okay, okay.
Matt: Right, so it's one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten.
Marisha: Oh, okay, yeah, get the wyvern.
Matt: You can get all of them there.
Laura: Oh my god, that guy is going to be so--
Liam: Grog's going to bite his head off.
Matt: What's the DC on this?
Marisha: They have to make a dex saving throw or they take--
Matt: Right, right, but what's your DC on it?
Marisha: Oh, my spell DC? 19.
Matt: Fail, fail, fail, they're not very dextrous. Fail, fail, fail-- Fail! They all fail. (cheering)
Matt: So that's 7d10 fire damage to each of them.
Sam: Why don't you use that all the time!?
Marisha: I just got it! I just got it when I leveled.
Liam: You've got to be careful with friendly fire, and we're all out of the way.
Marisha: So a giant, fiery chasm splits open.
Matt: The ground bursts open, rocks being torn asunder as giant columns of flame-- boof, boof, boof, boof, boof-- out of the ground, completely engulfing each one of them in this sudden conflagration of red and orange and yellow flames and molten magma.
Marisha: 24. 24, that was four-- 24, that's good, so 27, 36, 30-- 42 points of fire damage. (clapping)
Liam: Phew. Gingers, man. Gingers.
Marisha: My hands light up.
Matt: Each one of the lizardfolk-type creatures in the flames, you see them shriek for a second before their forms are turned to ash in these blasts of fire, each sub-woofer-like, guttural impact as the ground cracks open like (explosion noise) scatter amongst--
Marisha: So they explode? Popcorn?
Matt: Yeah, each one of the wyverns themselves, you can see the flames emerge around them, and as it recedes they have burn scars and their flesh is cracked and peeled against the fire wounds that now tear across the front of their body. They're all looking fairly hurt by that.
Marisha: And then, I take a bow. (laughter)
Marisha: And I'm-- exhausted a little bit, little single tear as I think of my ancestors-- And that's it.
Matt: All right, end of your turn. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: All right. I'm going to start walking towards that wyvern at the bottom there-- Yeah, that way, I'm not going to get quite close enough to get into the reach of that jerk over there--
Matt: So you can go here.
Taliesin: Yeah. While I'm walking by him, though, I'm going to nail-- I don't even know if I'm really going to-- going to shoot him three times while I'm walking by, because that's funny. With Sharpshooter.
Matt: Okay. So first shot against them?
Taliesin: It would be seven, 19.
Matt: 19 hits. Go ahead and roll damage on him.
Taliesin: That's-- 1d10, what did I do with my 1d10s, because I wasn't thinking-- here we go. That's 26 points of damage.
Matt: (explosion noise) You take his head right off as you walk by, without even looking. (explosion noise, pained squawk) And you can see the lower jaw gets blown off and it falls to the back on the ground.
Taliesin: Since I've got two more shots, I'm going to start shooting at that one dragon-- that wyvern, as I'm--
Matt: Right there? Go for it. Two shots on the wyvern.
Taliesin: Sharpshooter again.
Matt: All right.
Sam: Pew!
Taliesin: That's a nine, yay! So that's 16?
Matt: 16 hits.
Taliesin: And I'll roll the second one, just to have it. That's nine. Nah, nine'll miss. Thankfully will not-- that's great. 26 points of damage.
Matt: All righty. This one (explosion noise) the bullet hits inside of its body, you can see a little (splurting noise) of blood squirt out--
Taliesin: And I'll get as close as I can get to him in this round, also, I'm going to spend my movement walking straight towards him.
Matt: (heavy walking noises) That's the rest of it there. Okay. That's your turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Oh! Yeah! I leave one of those to you guys, and I run at the two wyverns on the left.
Matt: Getting in the middle of the fray? Against them both?
Travis: Yeah, against them both!
Matt: There you go! Grog charges, and they're both-- There you go!
Travis: Here's hoping these puppies go-- That's 24?
Matt: 24 on the more wounded one?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: All right, that hits him.
Travis: Can I swing at the other guy?
Matt: If you want to.
Travis: Yeah, let's divvy it up, I don't want to give anybody too much love. Five, four, 26?
Matt: Hits, so roll damage on each.
Travis: 11, 22, 32?
Matt: They're both Great Weapon Master? Okay, 32 damage?
Travis: 32 on the first.
Matt: First one, you carve through him with the blade (whump).
Laura: Nice.
Matt: Makes his save.
Travis: Five, ten, 21, 31, 31.
Matt: 31 damage? Okay. This one you (whoosh) streak across with Craven Edge. Makes its save. You leave a large wound across the front of its jaw and it (choking noise). However, you did kill one, so you do get to use your bonus action for an attack because of your Great Weapon Master feat.
Travis: Do I have to roll for the hit?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: That's 31?
Matt: With the minus five?
Travis: Sorry! No, no, never mind, sorry, what's 31 minus five?
Liam: 26.
Taliesin: 26.
Matt: Hits, yeah, you're good.
Travis: Okay. Three, seven, 12, 30. Oh, 22, 32.
Liam: He's covered in ichor.
Matt: 32. This time (whoosh) you swipe through the second time with the blade, this time carving off part of its wing, and you see that one of the wings is half-curled and keeping up to the side, it's hobbling around its legs, looking like it's on death's door, but still keeping itself. All right, is that the end of your turn?
Travis: That's it.
Matt: All right, (wyvern noise) in there, and this one stays there and is going to unleash upon you, Grog. It's going to bite and tail attack against each of you with the stinger against you, Grog. That is a 21 to hit?
Travis: Hits.
Matt: And natural 20 on the stinger, okay.
Travis: Well, I have resistance against poison, so that helps.
Matt: That does help, actually, so it'll just do regular poison damage against you. So you take 11 points of piercing damage, reduced to six from the bite. And the stinger deals-- That's 12 points of piercing damage, reduced to six as well.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: The stinger, however, I need you to make a constitution saving throw.
Travis: All right. Ugh, 12.
Matt: That's a failure. Actually, it would have been an additional 12, because it was a critical hit on the pierce, so you take 12-- so a total of 18 damage so far, and then, as part of the poison, you take 48 points of poison damage. Because you have resistance, that is reduced to 24.
Sam: Hey! That's nice!
Matt: All right, you have poison resistance from the belt, right? Yes. All right, so there you go. The other one coming up against you, Percy, strikes with its bite. That is going to be a 20-- 16?
Taliesin: 16 misses.
Matt: 16 misses. That is going to be a 22 for the stinger.
Taliesin: Stinger hits.
Matt: Okay, stinger hits you for six plus four, ten points of piercing damage. I need you to make a constitution saving throw.
Taliesin: Constitution saving throw. 20.
Matt: 20, you succeed. No poison.
Taliesin: So I took ten points of--?
Matt: Piercing damage. Correct. All right, it's looking rough on both their ends. They're just fighting to the end at this point. All right, that ends their turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: I'm going to cast Hunter's Mark on the one fighting--
Matt: Moving it over?
Laura: Yeah. Percy.
Matt: All right.
Laura: And I'm going to first attack the one fighting Grog.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 16?
Matt: 16-- does hit, yeah.
Laura: Yes! Okay.
Matt: Don't have a whole lot of armor. They just got a lot of hit points.
Laura: 17 plus sneak attack-- 18.
Matt: 18. So Grog, as you're thrashing about with the blade at this creature, eager to get that final hit, you reach back with Craven Edge before an arrow (impact) into its face and it (burble, thump) collapses to the ground.
Travis: Aw! (laughter)
Laura: And I shift my attention over to the one fighting Percy!
Matt: All right.
Laura: And that is 30, no, 28?
Matt: 28 hits, go ahead and roll damage with the extra d6 for Hunter's Mark.
Laura: Nine, ten, 11-- Where's my dex? 17.
Matt: Gotcha. 17 points of damage. second you (whoosh) pull out the second arrow, (whoosh) release it and it strikes the side of its body, and (pained squawk) it still seems to be standing. It hurt it, but didn't leave it in any dire straits yet. That ends your turn, are you staying where you are?
Laura: I'm staying where I am!
Matt: Okay, Scanlan, you're up.
Laura: Actually, I'm going to jump off the roof and rush over to Scanlan.
Matt: Okay. So leaping off, make an acrobatics check.
Laura: 24?
Matt: 24-- Scanlan, at the start of your turn, as you're getting ready, all of a sudden (impact) in front of you, spooking you momentarily, you see Vex lands on her feet and looks down at you with a look of concern and wanting to make sure you're okay.
Sam: Oh, hi, thanks for checking on me. Could you move for a second? I'm going to kill this thing. (laughter)
Sam: Oh, so I'll-- I can't do much, because I'm far away and I don't want to kill Percy--
Taliesin: It's not going to live through me anyway.
Sam: That's true. I will Wand of Magic Missiles him.
Matt: Okay, using how many--
Sam: I'll use six of my seven.
Matt: Oof! All righty. So go ahead and roll proper damage on that.
Sam: Okay, the first, okay, so is that 6d4 plus one?
Matt: This would be Magic Missile, cast at level six, technically, I'm pretty sure--
Sam: Well, it's weird, because my--
Matt: So it would be-- it would be 6d6 plus six.
Sam: 6d6 plus six?
Matt: Oh, I'm sorry. 6d4 plus six. Bleah.
Travis: (chuckles) Heh, math.
Matt: Hey.
Sam: Sorry, it's close.
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: One more? 12 plus what? Six? 12 plus six. 18.
Matt: 18? Okay. The missiles (impact noises) slamming into the side, arcing off and swirling around Percy to hit it, anime-missile-streak style, hitting it from all sides, you can see chunks of its body being blown off from the force of the arcane casting. It still stands, though it is dripping from multiple wounds and is having a hard time.
Taliesin: I got this.
Matt: Ending your turn, Scanlan?
Sam: I think so, I mean, I'm okay. I'll heal myself a little bit more with another level one Healing Word.
Matt: Go for it, take your d4 plus five.
Sam: Okay. Seven more points-- yay!
Matt: You're up.
Liam: I'm going to start walking towards it and dagger, and dagger, and dagger.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: First is 20.
Matt: 20 hits.
Liam: Second is 23.
Matt: Hits.
Liam: Third is a 23.
Matt: Hits.
Liam: So, we get--
Matt: This is Sneak Attack.
Liam: Ten for the fir-- Sneak Attack? Is it near something?
Matt: Percy is in melee range with it.
Liam: Okay, so the first is ten plus-- wah!
Laura: Oh no, dice down!
Liam: Ten plus 16, 23, (growling) 29, 36, 39, 41 for the first dagger.
Matt: How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Liam: I will aim for its open mouth as it's going "huah." And pin its tongue into the back of its skull.
Matt: As you step forward, your first dagger, you pull it out and aim it and over-the-hand toss it as it rears back, ready to bring its fangs out to sink down into Percy, the dagger vanishes into its throat, and you see its face go lax for a second. (wet coughs) It begins trying to cough, and as it does, you can see bits of blood and gore from its throat being hawked across the ground. It takes a few steps. Percy steps out of the way as it heads towards you before it rears back and (choking, thump) and collapses onto the ground. You can see the blade still sticking out the back of its head, towards the back of its throat, before it appears at the side of your belt.
Sam: Sorry I made a noise, guys, sorry.
Laura: Next time, stealth. We should get inside.
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: We should hide.
Taliesin: We should-- we should take what we can and we should also hide the bodies.
Laura: Good call.
Taliesin: Let's bring everything inside.
Marisha: I go down to the wyverns and I start going for those stingers.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: If you can do this quickly, Keyleth, because we need to hide these bodies.
Matt: It's going to take you a while to do it.
Liam: Can I assist with my Keen Dagger, and help her under her instruction?
Laura: Let's get them inside.
Liam: We're going to drag the wyverns indoors?
Taliesin: Drag everything indoors.
Sam: Wait, wait, wait-- these stingers are on the end of tails?
Liam: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Sam: Grog, can you chop off their tails and we'll take the tails with us?
Laura: No, we've got to get the wyverns inside. If anything flying overhead sees these bodies, they know something's been attacked.
Sam: Aren't half of them burned to a crisp anyway?
Taliesin: Not crisped, just scorched.
Marisha: There's some ash. I go ahead and I do a cantrip, Gust, and start spreading out the ash.
Matt: Okay. It still looks like someone emptied a bunch of fireplace ash pits into the center of the walkway where there once were lizardfolk.
Laura: I'll have the bag.
Travis: What for?
Laura: Just the Dust of Tracelessness.
Sam: I give us cover. I'll blow my Horn of Fog.
Laura: I start putting the Dust of Tracelessness down on the ground so it looks like nobody's been here.
Matt: Low fog sound as Scanlan blows the horn. Fog fills the vicinity and you guys begin tossing Dust of Tracelessness around--
Travis: I go grab the humanoid figures and I throw two over my shoulders and then I get one in each hand and I start dragging them toward a door?
Taliesin: Any-- inside. Just inside.
Travis: To an "any inside."
Liam: I'll get the door for you. (door creaks)
Matt: All right, you guys pretty quickly manage to move what you can out of the way, we'll say over the next few minutes the fog is there. Under that cover, you begin to drag the wyvern bodies into the alleyway, into the shadows. If you want to go ahead and make some checks here to go ahead and see if you can harvest.
Marisha: Yeah, okay, let's do different ones. Okay, so first one, I'll definitely take advantage, so, since I have advantage-- not that much better-- 14. The first one.
Liam: Would it help if I gave her my Keen Dagger for the rest of it?
Matt: I would say, given the circumstance, all it would do would offer her advantage, which she already has, so it wouldn't make much difference. So the first one, it's been a little too damaged in battle and you aren't able to really draw any poison from the stinger for the first one-- what's the second one?
Marisha: Second one, 15 total.
Matt: 15's what you needed. You manage to extract just enough of the wyvern stinger poison for possibly a single dose, so you can mark down a dose of wyvern poison.
Marisha: Okay, I'll give it to-- I'll give that to Vax. Do you have poison? Or do you-- Vax or Vex-- I give it to one of the twins. Here, twins. You fight over it. Fight over it.
Laura: Is it good for you?
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: Two more, maybe I can-- 14-- Okay, well, the second one I rolled a 25.
Matt: Okay, so that's a second dose of wyvern poison.
Marisha: That I give to Vex. Last one-- I'll take that 15, with-- 26.
Matt: All right, so you have three doses of wyvern poison that you've managed to harvest from these creatures; you guys can distribute as you see fit.
Taliesin: Anything else to loot from these schmuckuses?
Matt: They don't carry much gold, and what they have, you envision, probably went to the entity that rules Emon. And as you're looking over the bodies of the few of the lizard men here, you see they didn't just wander their way in here. And you remember mention from Allura before that there were lizardfolk worshipers of Thordak years ago. Apparently, once the city's been taken, Thordak has, or at least the worshipers of Thordak are also moving in. So, taking this time to harvest poisons, looking over the bodies, you can see the consistency between their red, crimson-dyed leather materials, and you get the sensation that while this was a small skirmish group, this is probably the new policing state of Emon. So. With that, we'll take a quick break for the restroom. We'll pick up here in just a few minutes, guys, if you want to hang tight. And we'll see you here shortly. Jumping back in-- As the party re-gathers themselves after the battle with these lizardfolk and the wyverns in the center of the city of Emon, you slowly make your way back through the streets towards the north, passing through Abdar's Promenade, finding the building that was previously brought to your attention thanks to Garthok.
Laura: Should we take a short rest, though, before we head down to the Clasp? Because some of us have taken some hits--
Taliesin: We'll take a breath in the--
Laura: Okay. Before we head down?
Taliesin: Yeah. In the basement.
Matt: So you guys find the building that was brought to your attention; you head down into the same cellar, keeping tabs on the external trap that was brought to your attention by Garthok last time. You make your way inside. There's the same barrel in the far corner; you pull the top off and there, indeed, is a ladder that leads down underground.
Laura: This is why I left Trinket. Because he wouldn't have been able to come down here anyway. Just so you know.
Travis: Hey, search that shit, Vax.
Marisha: He's very claustrophobic.
Liam: So we've just got ladder down. That's it?
Marisha: Well, hang on, let's heal up. I need to hit dice it up as well.
Liam: Well, I'm fine, so while everybody is--
Travis: I would not like to take a short rest.
Laura: Oh.
Travis: I lose all my Fancy Feast if I do.
Liam: Just do some push-ups. Just do some push-ups while I check this ladder out. So I'm going to check for any traps on this ladder or anything.
Travis: Oh, yeah yeah yeah! Can she heal me instead?
Laura: I'll heal you. I'm going to heal you--
Liam: 23.
Matt: Okay. Looking at the barrel, there are no traps currently set, and it's not locked. The only traps were on the outside of the cellar, from what you knew previously, and as that mechanism had already been shown to you by Garthok, so that was easily disabled.
Liam: I'm not going to go crazy, I'm just going to go to the bottom of the ladder-- in I go.
Matt: Okay. So while you guys are taking a rest--
Liam: 30 for stealth.
Matt: You drop down the ladder. As you head down what probably comes to about 15, 20 or so feet into pitch black-- it's completely dark down there. Do you have any light source, or do you want to--
Liam: I have a Flame Tongue Dagger.
Matt: Okay, so you pull the Flame Tongue Dagger. It puts out a very, very low candlelight, opens up the vicinity to you as your feet splash down into very, very shallow, a couple inches, shallow water. Looking around you, you are in a subterranean sewer system. The smell hits you as you hit the bottom of it. This is the entire underbelly of Emon, and there is the slight sound of trickling water that's rushing through this tunnel you're currently standing in. The ladder drops close to about a foot above the floor before it comes to a complete stop. Looking to your right, it descends a little further down on that side, and you can hear-- make a perception check.
Liam: 22.
Matt: Okay. To the right of you, what should be the eastern tunnel, you can hear the sound of trickling water growing louder; it's almost like this stream meets another. As you listen to the left, and the stench is pretty rough in this part, to the left you can see in the tunnel is a very, very faint dim, yellow light that is shifting ever so slightly in the distance as it curves around out of view. It is level to where you are now, actually, slight incline for a little bit.
Liam: (quietly) Vex'ahlia-- There is a long tunnel down here and there is a bit of faint light. I have Percy's fancy rock; I am not planning on doing anything crazy, but I think I should--
Laura: You don't have the-- the rock doesn't work until we sleep. You don't have anything.
Liam: Well, technically I do still have it. Regardless, I should go ahead and, if there's anyone to talk to, I should talk-- I'm not going to go yet, I'm going to wait 'til you guys have rested, and come down to-- it's pitch-black down here, I'm not running ahead. I'm better at this shit than you and the rest are, so take a rest, I'm going to sit here--
Laura: You're better at talking than the rest of us are?
Liam: Sometimes, Stubby, yes.
Laura: How will I know if you get into trouble, and your hands are tied--
Sam: Do you need me to come?
Laura: We can all hear you. (laughter)
Liam: Stubby, could you come down here for me?
Marisha: Hi, Vax.
Laura: Hold on just a moment. Mind the gap.
Matt: You splash down into the sewer system.
Laura: Eugh, fuck, it smells down here.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Do I have to step in the water?
Liam: Probably. Come here.
Laura: Yes?
Liam: All right so, before all these guys-- you were being stalked by someone, I don't know for what reason, I don't know who the person was, I don't know what they wanted with you.
Laura: Stalked?
Liam: Someone wanted you, and I don't know who. The Clasp was going to get you for them, and I stopped that from happening. I followed you one night, or rather, followed this person following you, and met the Clasp. And I made an exchange for your life.
Laura: What?
Liam: I went and got someone else. And--
Laura: And said it was me? No--
Liam: Not immediately. You're almost on it. They told me to get a body, I got a body. A living body. A child rapist. And brought him to the Clasp, and they brought out a stick-- really it was made of human tongues.
Laura: A stick. Of human tongues.
Liam: Yes. They touched it, and he turned into you.
Laura: What the fuck?
Liam: And they took that guy. For whatever. And in exchange for your life, I have this, and they are allowed to call on me when they want. So, I know that we've run in and out a couple of times, but we're going in. You can talk my fucking ear off in a moment, all right? Just shut up for a second. We are going to go in and try to form some sort of alliance or working partnership, this is different than running in, smashing some shit and running out, all right? So keep the cloak up, hang back, don't say a lot, and you can talk my ear off later.
Laura: Okay, I will do that, I want to know that tongue guy, that looks like me-- is he dead or is he alive now? They gave him to some stalker, some stalker!
Liam: I don't know why you were wanted, I don't know what it was about, all I knew is that they were going to take you away and I wasn't going to let that happen and I took some fucking piece of shit and traded him in.
Laura: So there could be at this moment in time another person that looks just like me parading around the world?
Liam: Well, if I had to wager on it, I'd say that he's in a dungeon in a rubber suit, but I don't know where, no.
Laura: Well, thank you. For, you know, doing that-- (nervous laugh)
Liam: I never told you because it's creepy as fuck.
Laura: Was it the Clasp here, was it the Clasp in Westruun?
Liam: It was in Westruun.
Laura: Well, these guys probably don't know me.
Liam: Probably? Probably.
Laura: I'll put my hood up--
Liam: Stay at the back.
Laura: I would like to find out who the guy was that wanted me, though. That's kind of weird. Thank you. For everything. thank you. You always have my back and I know it.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: And for that, I won't say very much.
Liam: You do you, Vex'ahlia.
Laura: Everyone can come down.
Matt: So as you finish your short rest, you all progressively find your way down the ladder and to the subterranean sewer system. The choice is to travel to the east or western side of the tunnel.
Liam: Sounds like there's, I don't know, drainage or something coming from slightly up in that direction.
Laura: I'm guessing towards the light, is where they are. Scanlan?
Sam: Oi?
Laura: Do you have something that can make disguises? Don't you have like, not the mustache, but something that can really change my looks?
Sam: How do you know I'm Scanlan? I could be in disguise, but yes I do.
Laura: Could I use that?
Sam: You would have to attune it to yourself-- is that right?
Laura: Oh, it takes like a little bit?
Sam: Oh no no no, requires attunement. What do you think?
Liam: Well, that's not a bad idea, but it means we've got to sit in this stank.
Sam: I can instantly make us, with Seeming, I can instantly make us all look different. Or just you.
Laura: Or just me. How about just me? I've got a question, though. Here's the thing: if you think that they know what I look like, don't you think they know what you look like? Because you look just like me. So what difference does it make if I'm there or not?
Liam: I don't know if the person who wanted you was part of the Clasp. I don't know who it was. It's parading you around in front of the people who made an illicit deal with me.
Laura: All right, all right, all right. Seeming, how about that?
Liam: It could be fine. I don't know.
Laura: Okay! Seeming?
Sam: Yeah, no--
Laura: Please?
Sam: (smarmily) It's pretty high-level stuff--
Laura: Scanlan, what if I heal you?
Sam: What if I-- ooh! I cast Minor Illusion and give her a moustache. What about that? Is that pretty good?
Matt: A fancy, fancy moustache that you cannot wipe off your face!
Travis: Hey, that's very handsome.
Liam: I don't think that's going to be enough. It's not quite enough for our purposes.
Sam: All right, I dispel it.
Laura: How about a limerick as payment, Scanlan?
Sam: A limerick for you?
Laura: For you.
Sam: Oh! You're going to give me a limerick?
Laura: I'll give you a limerick. Hold on. I've been preparing it--
Liam: She's multiclassing a third time.
Laura: Have you heard tale of Scanlan the Bard? / Or Burt Reynolds, if you look at his card. Always tries to get laid / Sometimes with ladies he made! But I still respect him, 'cause rhyming is hard. (laughter, cheering)
Sam: That was excellent.
Liam: Second firestorm of the night.
Travis: Where's the extinguisher?
Matt: I will give you a d6 inspiration dice for that.
Laura: Yay!
Sam: Wait-- me or her?
Matt: Her.
Sam: Wow. That's impressive. Here's the hat. You can use it--
Laura: Oh, thanks, Scanlan.
Sam: In about 20 minutes you'll be able to use it.
Laura: I take off my circlet, I guess, and I put on the hat.
Liam: How 'bout that smell, everyone? Eh?
Marisha: Did you live in this?
Liam: I never lived--
Marisha: Did you deal with this!? Oh, oh, that's good.
Liam: I'm, like, a distant cousin to all this. (laughter)
Matt: In the time it takes for you to take the Hat of Disguise and go ahead and attune to that, you guys are now prepared. What path would you like to take?
Sam: Towards the sounds, yes?
Matt: Well, you have the sound of water rushing to the right, in the darkness, and you have the sound, or, yeah, the view of slight moving light to the left.
Liam: But did you say, on the right, is it going down, or is it coming down?
Matt: The water is trickling downward; the water continues sloping downward this way. The opposite direction is where the light is. The little bit of light you see in the distance.
Taliesin: I say we follow the water.
Liam: Follow the water down or follow the light?
Marisha: Follow the water towards the light. Right?
Travis: Jesus, what the fuck are we doing here?
Liam: This is like the Underdark again.
Sam: I abstain.
Laura: Let's go towards--
Marisha: Towards the light.
Taliesin: I'll do whatever they say.
Marisha: Are we going towards the light or towards the rushing water?
Travis: Light.
Marisha: All who vote "light," say "aye."
Taliesin: Aye.
Laura: Aye.
Travis: Aye.
Marisha: All who vote "water," say "aye."
Taliesin: Aye.
Marisha: To the light.
Matt: So you guys head-- left, or--
Liam: Is there any-- I'm sorry, one last question. Is there any Thieves' Cant on the walls at all?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: Can I look, too?
Matt: You know what, yes, you can.
Sam: With inspiration.
Travis: Is there any poo on the floor?
Liam: 31.
Laura: Oh, he doesn't need my help.
Matt: Looking along the walls, you start heading in that direction, you do see a few markings that basically say 'sanctuary' in Thieves' Cant, in the direction of the light.
Liam: All right. Confirmed.
Matt: You guys continue onward?
Liam: Yeah, I'll lead the way. Yeah, we sat here for 20 minutes in the stank.
Matt: Yes. (clears throat) So, you guys continue forward up that tunnel. Eventually, as it curves around, the light-- you can see-- it's shifting, because it appears to be a distant fire light that is the source in this vicinity, and as you turn the corner, as the tunnel slowly curves around, it opens up into a large central sewer chamber, though most of it is dry, and you can see there is a large mound of dirt in the center that seems to rise above most of the water that has collected along the ceiling, and there are a series of platforms constructed out of wooden scaffolding at different levels all throughout this chamber. Some of it looks a little rickety, some of it looks very old, but various states of moisture rot. (offscreen sneeze)
Matt: You hear a sneeze from the distance from one of the-- (laughter)
Matt: As you look and see a series of small bonfires throughout the room that are currently lit and surrounded by figures. You see a ramshackle tent city, and/or a series of small, wooden hovels that have constructed here. You see a number of figures that are huddled around these bonfires: cloaks, hoods up, generally keeping warm in what is a relatively cold, subterranean area. You guys, glancing over here, as you're first looking, and you can see a few of them appear to be laid up and hurt, and there appear to be at least a few individuals that are heavily bandaged or have slings on. As you guys step into the room, not being very stealthy in your arrival--
Liam: We could have been, but I use a bit of sign language from the Cant, and let them know that I'm part of the Clasp?
Matt: Okay. A few of them stand up, hands on the side of their hilt, and stop there for a second before one individual steps out of the shadows and puts his hand up, putting it down. You recognize this to be Garthok.
Sam: Garthok!
Matt: He says, "Don't worry, they're with me. I'm glad you made it. It had been a while. I was afraid maybe you wouldn't come."
Sam: We got held up by some wyverns. I almost died, it was crazy. We're here now.
Matt: "It sounds like it. I'm sorry to hear it."
Sam: Hey. It's all right.
Matt: "I'm glad you stayed alive." And as he starts to talk, the group of individuals standing about ten feet behind him separate as another figure pushes past them. Pulling the hood back, you can see a man about six feet in height, average human height, long, blond hair that trails past the middle of his back over a dark grey cloak. Fine features at one time; he looks older, you can see the weathering in his face and the various wrinkles and lines from years and years of living in this atmosphere.
Liam: You said "human", right?
Matt: Human, yes. He has a red-tinted monocle over one eye.
Sam: Ooh! I like him already.
Matt: As he steps forward, the rest of the Clasp put their hands off to the side of their weapons. He pushes aside Garthok to the rest of you and says: "So, you are the ones called Vox Machina, am I correct in this assumption?"
Sam: Yes, you are.
Matt: "Hmm! Trusted of Uriel, executors of Modeth the Traitor. One among you is a member as well, I'm told."
Liam: I step forward.
Matt: "Then you are welcome here. I am Spireling Shenn--"
Sam: (whispers) Spireling Shenn?
Marisha: (murmurs) He's a Spireling!
Matt: "Master of networks and information--"
Sam: Ooh!
Marisha: Ooh!
Matt: "--of the Clasp of Emon. Excuse the mess, we lost a portion of our territory and are currently caught in mid-adaptation. So, what can I do for you?"
Liam: Well, you know who we are.
Matt: "And you know who I am, now."
Liam: Yes. And you know my spotty track record with the Clasp. But that's all past now. The city's in ruins. You're looking at the right hand of Uriel.
Matt: "Uriel is no longer with us. You are a hand to nothing."
Liam: Of course. We're looking for what to do next with this city. I don't think any of us wish to be the pets of the beast that's now roosting in the heart of Emon.
Matt: (chuckles) "No, that does not do any of us any good. Business has ground to a halt, and we've lost a few good patrons in this unfortunate circumstance. We lost our entire northern tunnel structure as soon as the creature attacked the Cloudtop District."
Liam: Well, I'll be honest, our first thought was to flee this city.
Matt: "Safer."
Liam: But before we make that decision-- yes, it is-- we know that you're the next best thing to a government in Emon.
Matt: "Hmm."
Liam: And we want to know what's left behind.
Matt: "Well, we're seeing to our own. We're going to see how many of our allies still lie within the city. Going to reach out to our friends across Tal'Dorei and see how much of a network we still stand to keep. Then we call in a few debts, reach out to some friends and, ah, we see if we can find some way to supplant this red thing."
Liam: Can I insight check?
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: Not good. No. Nine.
Sam: Nine, you said?
Liam: Nine. The plan now is to lay low and hide?
Matt: "Well, for now, I have a number of operatives topside who are currently trying to get as much information on the red one as possible. The piles of wealth are growing, and it looks like the beast is building a damn home out of the district."
Taliesin: The city's going to need a black market.
Matt: "Oh, I am aware, and we are preparing for that. However, it's still fairly fresh, and individuals aren't willing to release any coin when all of it goes to the pouches of the thing that sits on us. Word has gotten back that Westruun was also hit rather hard in the night. And these creatures have continued eastward ever since-- no further word on their whereabouts. So we're put in a reactionary position, which I loathe. We're used to being ahead of the rest of the curve."
Taliesin: Well, here's where we could help each other.
Matt: "It would appear that could be a possibility."
Taliesin: We need this city to stay alive. We need the citizenry to be fed, and we need people to know where they're going to get their medicine and when they're going to get their food. We understand it's going to be tricky. We need information, we need spies, we need to know what's happening in the city, and you need people like us to stay out of your way.
Matt: "That seems like a fairly top-heavy trade in our direction, if you ask me. There are many ways to get people out of our way."
Taliesin: There are ways that we can benefit each other.
Matt: "I would love to hear it."
Sam: (whispers) I would, too.
Taliesin: We have safe haven-- and please, by the way, stop me if you feel I'm being too broad.
Sam: No, go for it.
Taliesin: We have our keep that is untouched by the dragon's attack-- we have a safe haven.
Matt: "Hmm. How is this keep accessed?"
Liam: We can get to that.
Taliesin: There are-- options.
Liam: We also have strong connections to Whitestone.
Laura: And Vasselheim.
Sam: And to The Slayer's Take-- that's what they're called, right? Yes? There could be a formidable force that could come to protect the city or drive out the dragons.
Liam: We're proposing a short-term solution-- you want to get back to a position where you can grease the wheels and make money. That's not going to happen anytime soon. But you can't take care of these beasts on your own. And neither can Whitestone, neither can we.
Taliesin: But it is very likely that we will be the thing that is dropped upon it from a great height, and the most cooperation we can get, getting into a position of power over this beast, the happier we'll all be.
Matt: "Hmm. Let's say we do this, let's say we go forward with this alliance. You get out of our way, you promise resources from Whitestone, perhaps? They have quite a few unique contributions they could make. The Slayer's Take-- I have not had many dealings across the Ozmit Sea, but are you referring to, ah, Vasselheim?"
Sam: Indeed. They are a mighty force.
Matt: "Now, that is a tough nut to crack, that city. If you're connected in Vasselheim, perhaps we can talk."
Laura: There's no guarantees you'll be able to get in anywhere.
Matt: "There's no guarantees we'll be able to provide food or medicine-- it's dangerous times, my dear."
Laura: It is. But the sooner these dragons are defeated, the sooner business can get back to usual.
Matt: "Of course."
Laura: Ow. I mean-- (fake coughs) eh.
Sam: I know I'm getting a bit ahead of ourselves, but once the dragons are gone and the city's returned to normalcy, what is your ultimate goal? To hold power or to remain in the underbelly?
Matt: "All the real power lies in the underbelly, my friend. I have a proposition for you, then. We will do this. We have many channels and secret tunnels throughout the city, and we could very easily deliver food, medicine, shelter, even, to the wired and poor and downtrodden folk of this town, be the subterranean heroes of Emon. Out of the goodness of our hearts, of course. However, once this creature is toppled, and the city is brought toward, I gather you would have the ear of whoever comes to power in this city."
Sam: We may very well be the person that comes to power in this city.
Matt: "That is helpful. And I imagine you also have some presumably powerful connections in Vasselheim. We would be interested in beginning a sect of our fair trade in that distant, all-too-- how do I put it? Xenophobic cityscape?"
Travis: What?
Matt: "If you agree to be our seed in that stubborn garden of a town, you have our aid."
Marisha: Can you give us a moment? (softly) Please?
Matt: "My patience grows thin."
Marisha: (whispering) Can we talk about this for a second, guys?
Matt: He adjusts the monocle on his eye.
Marisha: Do we really need them? Are they really providing us with enough to make this worth our while, to where we essentially want to open up the Pandora's Box of crime in Vasselheim? Do we want to be responsible for that?
Travis: Well, I'm all about Pandora and her box, but I don't think we really need this. It's not worth all of that. Especially if we're going to Vasselheim.
Marisha: I feel like we just took one pretty top-heavy deal and traded it for an even more top-heavy deal not in our favor.
Taliesin: Oh no, I'm not-- I feel the urge to further discuss this. Also, to be fair, we're not representatives of the Clasp; we couldn't, technically speaking, open-- All we can do is-- I think, the most fair thing to do-- to offer in exchange for this is perhaps some trade with the materials that are available in Whitestone and maybe a promise of keeping a blind eye towards their business until the finished reconstruction of the city. Let them reestablish themselves until the city is properly completed.
Laura: Don't say that.
Taliesin: You need an underbelly. Underbellies are function. Underbellies function for this very need: the fact that we can actually get food and medical supplies into the city right now if we need to. Less than 72 hours after such a devastating attack, there's no other system--
Liam: If the Clasp were to vanish, something else would take its place.
Taliesin: They're inevitable.
Laura: But I don't want to introduce them to Vasselheim, no.
Taliesin: At the cost of people starving or not starving.
Laura: We're already here, Keyleth.
Marisha: I'm down for joining them and letting them join our cause, and using their infrastructure, but beyond that--
Liam: Can I use perception to make sure that we're really private right now?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: Can I join in?
Liam: 22-- Oh, 22, plus can I use my inspiration on this?
Matt: When'd you get that inspiration die?
Liam: I got it in the wyvern fight.
Matt: It would've faded by now, unfortunately.
Liam: Okay, so 22.
Laura: 33.
Matt: 33? You're far away from the crowd. However, Spireling Shenn has been very concentrated in shifting his attention from each person that is currently speaking in this conversation.
Marisha: He's reading our lips.
Laura: I turn my back to him and I say, he can read our lips as well as I can.
Taliesin: Of course he can, which is why I'm not saying anything that I wouldn't want him to hear anyway. I just don't want to promise anything we can't deliver. I don't think we could deliver Vasselheim; we're going to be busy! We have too much on our plate as it is.
Laura: I don't think they'd listen to us anyway, honestly.
Taliesin: I'm going to offer what we can give, and see if that's enough.
Sam: We have to have something to sweeten the pot.
Marisha: Yes.
Sam: What are you offering, money?
Laura: Offering to sweeten the pot-- we're defeating a fucking dragon! Let them get back to normal.
Sam: We can't promise that! The dragon could very easily kill us!
Laura: We could say-- They certainly can't do it without us. And we can't do it without them. But we'll be bringing in other armies with us.
Marisha: I agree-- it's joined forces at this point, that's all we can offer them. A place to fight at our side.
Travis: You're still assuming he's going to keep his word, too.
Taliesin: Let me go back to him. (deep sigh) Shenn.
Matt: "Yes, hmm."
Taliesin: I propose a counter-offer. I just don't feel comfortable offering Vasselheim; I don't think that we could necessarily deliver, and we, honestly, have a lot to do.
Matt: "All I'm asking is an introduction to a handful of key figures in the city, no more than that."
Taliesin: Well, I will not promise that now. What I can promise right now is some access to materials from Whitestone, which-- and I show him my gun hilt, which is embedded with the gems. I can see what's still lying around, and we can make a deal. I can also promise that for the reconstruction, once this has been dealt with, which is in everybody's best interest, until such time as there's a functioning government in this city, you will be treated with the respect appropriate of a group of people who are helping keeping the city functional.
Matt: "You act like that hasn't been our treatment for the entirety of this city's existence. You think your council didn't have dealings with the Clasp for many years before this happened?"
Taliesin: Of course they have.
Matt: "We helped make this city function. All we're offering is this service to other places that maybe don't have the right guidance to achieve their true greatness. All I ask is an introduction. Beyond these other. Far after the fact; don't even need to worry about it now. Who's to say what changes from now to then?"
Laura: Who would we even introduce you to?
Marisha: We don't even know anyone.
Sam: Yes, we do. We know some high-ranking clerics. We know the Slayer's Take. We met a bunch of people up there.
Marisha: In a zealot city? You want to go to a cleric and be like, "Hey. Thought you might want to meet the underground mob boss."
Matt: "We don't have to worry about that now. Just a simple handshake, and it's all done."
Taliesin: I'll put something forward to the group. If they prove themselves honorable, if they prove themselves faithful and capable of keeping this city afloat, then we will speak to whomever they wish us to speak to precisely of what they did. No more, no less.
Matt: "If this is an issue of morality, I would like to remind you that, one, we've let you escape after murdering one of our leaders, only upon learning that he himself was an immoral individual."
Liam: You're welcome.
Matt: "Also, we went against our word as an organization by letting you take a war criminal that had already paid his way out of the city."
Taliesin: And for that, we are grateful.
Laura: And we gave you something very powerful in exchange.
Marisha: And you got to keep that man's money.
Taliesin: That was business.
Matt: "It was business, but business that was persuaded by the actions of good people, and bringing justice. We want society to thrive."
Taliesin: I'm willing to kick this ball down the field.
Travis: What?
Matt: "So. Not wasting any more time, shall we make this a fine, healthy city once again?"
Taliesin: This feels a fair deal to me, and it means that we can leave knowing that the city will, in fact, still have a populace while we're gone.
Marisha: You seem used to selling your soul, Percy.
Taliesin: It is the job of ruling.
Sam: If we come back and learn that you have made a deal with the dragons, you'll be the first to die, not them.
Matt: "Oh. I would only hope that would be the case. I wouldn't be caught dead dealing with such a selfish entity."
Sam: All right, then let's do this. Keyleth, shake the man's hand.
Taliesin: You don't have to.
Sam: You've got nice soft hands.
Taliesin: Vax?
Travis: It should be Vax.
Taliesin: This is not the worst deal I've ever heard.
Marisha: You just don't know that yet.
Matt: "I have things to do."
Taliesin: I have met the devil. That's not him.
Laura: Don't do it.
Marisha: Percy, you make me so nervous.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Matt: "I haven't all day. My arm grows weary with impatience."
Marisha: Vax?
Sam: Would you like me to sing to give you some extra strength for that arm?
Taliesin: Vax, I will make the deal if you're not up to it, but I want your blessing.
Liam: You know what? Keep your deal.
Travis: Yeah! Attaboy.
Sam: We're going to leave the city abandoned?
Travis: Yes.
Sam: With no one to protect it?
Marisha: We are not abandoning it. We already discussed it. There's more than one way to cut through this knot.
Liam: I don't think you're going to let this city fall, anyway. If this city dies, you've nothing.
Marisha: I agree.
Liam: If the parasite hasn't a host to feed on, the parasite dies. No, thank you.
Marisha: Percy? I'm sorry, but I think our methods of being rulers might differ. I don't think I need to sell myself for the greater good.
Matt: "Very well. Unfortunate as it is. Step forward."
Liam: Is this a whisper?
Matt: No, this is him asking you to step forward. He steps really close to you, and he takes you by the shoulders and turns you around to face away from him. Do you resist?
Liam: I'm going to roll out of his hands forward to my friends.
Matt: Okay. Make an acrobatics check.
Liam: 28.
Matt: 28. You tumble away from his grasp, and he (grunts). "Very well. I know your face now, at least. And the rest of the Clasp will know you are a false member, now. You are not welcome in these tunnels ever again, and if we see your face amongst our kind, it will be our word that you are to be taken on sight. It's a shame you've marked yourselves our enemy this day. I wish it wasn't this way. But to step up and confront us with such disrespect for all the patience we've shown you in previous years is just-- it irks me. Stinks of a lack of civilization. So please be on your way. We'll do as we do. You do as you. Now be gone." And he turns around, flicks his cloak, and steps back into the group. The rest of them keep their hands on their belts and wait for you to leave.
Sam: I look at Garthok and say, "Even you?"
Matt: Garthok actually gives you a very stern look and pulls his blade an inch from the side of his scabbard.
Travis: I wouldn't do that.
Matt: At which point, you can see 25 more Clasp members step out. Even wounded ones as they are, all stepping up and gathering. There are now 35 to 40 of them starting to form out of the shadows, forming a semicircle around you entirely.
Sam: Don't do it, Grog.
Taliesin: Absolutely not.
Marisha: Let's go. Come on.
Travis: A fellow can't smile every once in a while?
Laura: We'll just back up.
Taliesin: I take a bow, and I turn my back to them and walk out.
Laura: I do not turn my back. I walk backwards the entire way out, with an arrow notched.
Travis: I stay next to Vax.
Sam: I say, party on, Garthok. And then we leave.
Laura: Keyleth? Darling? Could you maybe make a wall of stone and close off this tunnel?
Marisha: Unfortunately, no.
Liam: Save a thought for the people of Emon, if you've any room left in your narrow minds. And I back out.
Marisha: I end with, hopefully, you will realize there is a far greater enemy at hand than the personal squabbles between us small people. And I also step away.
Matt: The Spireling's not even in view at this point. He's disappeared amongst the rest of them.
Marisha: I'm sure he can hear me.
Matt: Possibly. As you guys exit and find your way back up to the surface, as the last of you makes it outside of the entranceway, you immediately start hearing this slamming and breaking of stone from underneath you, and you gather pretty rapidly that this entrance is being entirely removed for possible entry.
Taliesin: I would like to point out, since you had such noble intentions towards my position on things, this is your ego at work here. I may be many things, and I may be a deal-maker, but I never forget that when I rule, I rule these people, as well. I'm not better than them. And you may think you're better than them, but this is what it creates. It creates enemies.
Marisha: No, Percy. The difference is, I don't think I'm better than them.
Taliesin: They certainly think you do, and they are not pleased.
Laura: This mark. Is it magic? Can they trace you through this mark?
Liam: I don't answer. I walk over to Keyleth. Can you still do the thing with your hands?
Marisha: (fire noise) That thing?
Liam: I rip my shirt down. I want you to burn it away. Now.
Marisha: Vex, do you have an arrow?
Laura: Of course.
Marisha: I hand it to him. Put this in between your teeth. (sizzling noise)
Matt: (sizzling noise) Searing white pain through the back of your eyes, Vax, as Keyleth presses her palm into the center of your shoulder blades. You can hear the sizzling and cracking of skin, and smell the burning of Vax's flesh in the air in this cellar. Make a constitution check.
Liam: Seven.
Matt: Seven. You break through the arrow with your grip, and actually give out a very loud, painful scream out of reaction.
Liam: Like you do.
Laura: Similar to when you hit me in my arm.
Matt: Kind of. A moment passes. Keyleth, you pull your hand back, and where the Clasp symbol once was, there is a hand mark burned into the back of the shoulders.
Travis: Vecna. (laughter)
Liam: It was you.
Travis: Kill her now!
Matt: What would you guys like to do?
Sam: Well, that was a bust.
Taliesin: That could have gone so much better.
Travis: Vax, I think you made the right call, and I don't think very often.
Sam: Or very well.
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: Thank you, Grog.
Taliesin: I think we could have gotten out of there with at least the hintings of an alliance, as opposed to just--
Laura: Straight up--
Taliesin: Bitter enemies. This was a disaster.
Travis: Sometimes you have to walk away from a bad deal to find a good one.
Sam: That's not a thing.
Taliesin: That's not a thing. Where did-- you didn't read that--
Marisha: I got what you were saying, Grog.
Travis: When it rains, the sun is shining.
Laura: That's deep, Grog. I like it.
Travis: Stew on that.
Laura: I cast Cure Wounds on--
Liam: No!
Laura: I already did it. Too late! I fucking touched you, fucker.
Liam: Does that take the scar?
Laura: It just takes the pain away.
Matt: Cure Wounds? What it does is prevents infection. It does heal you for the hit points you would have lost for that. I'll say it nullifies the damage you would have taken from the burn mark. It does not alleviate you from the scarring. It's not as graphic as it would have been, had it been left to heal on its own, but it does muddle the Clasp symbol somewhat.
Liam: Okay. Thank you.
Sam: Shall we go back to our keep?
Travis: We could just kill them all now.
Liam: There's hundreds of them, Grog.
Taliesin: (splutters) No, we can't.
Travis: I saw, like, 40 or 50.
Liam: Yeah, there were another 160 in the rafters.
Taliesin: It would do no good. Who would be bringing food into the city in the first place?
Liam: They're going to go on doing the same thing they would have done with us or without us.
Taliesin: They're doing it without us, though.
Marisha: But Percy, do you honestly think that after all of this was done-- do you want to be beholden to those people?
Liam: And I don't believe they are going to bend the knee to Thordak. I don't believe it.
Taliesin: They're not going to, no. Of course not.
Liam: And that was all I, personally, was worried about.
Taliesin: I wanted people on the inside keeping us informed, and we just lost a very powerful spy network.
Liam: I think the only people on the inside right now have scales.
Taliesin: Everybody needs something.
Laura: Can we go back to the keep?
Taliesin: We are not going to bother. We're going to go and we're going to find a way of killing these things, and we're going to hope for the best in this city. That's what we're going to do.
Matt: As you guys are heading back, I need stealth checks from everybody.
Laura: Stealth check. Pass Without a Trace.
Marisha: Fuck! Natural one.
Taliesin: Oh my god, really?
Marisha: Natural one.
Laura: Then what's the point of anybody rolling?
Liam: 27.
Sam: 19.
Laura: 37.
Travis: 29.
Taliesin: We have a plus ten? 33.
Matt: All right. You guys push southward through the city, finding your way. At this point, the sun has set. Night has come in, and occasionally you hear the flapping of leathery wings overhead as a number of sentry groups of wyvern riders go tearing through the city. At one point, you hear a similar (raspy cry) sound, and you hear other ones begin rising up off the rooftops, heading in your direction, Keyleth. What do you guys do?
Taliesin: The minute we see that, I'm going to push her against the wall, and I'm going to Minor Illusion a shadow right over her.
Matt: Okay. Make a new stealth check with disadvantage.
Laura: Add ten.
Matt: (chuckles) It's a natural one on their end.
Marisha: Oh, good.
Matt: As long as you didn't roll a natural one.
Marisha: No, I didn't, I rolled an eight, plus a seven, plus ten.
Matt: So, at that point, they (whoosh), one swoops down and lands on the edge of the roof, and you see it curling down. And takes off again, and they continue on, out of the way. You wait a few moments before silence takes the night once more, and you press on heading southward. (laughter)
Laura: Nice.
Sam: Good job, Percy.
Marisha: Thank you, Percy.
Taliesin: One day you're going to stop being afraid of me, by the way, and I hope that day comes soon.
Sam: Before we go to the keep, do you want to swing by the place?
Taliesin: The place?
Sam: The place with the airships.
Taliesin: There's no "swinging by," that's a caper. That's an entire thing, that if we're going to do--
Sam: Just to go there and look?
Travis: The showroom is fucked. It's broken.
Taliesin: This is one of those things that we're going to have to get everybody on board before we even start talking about it, so probably a good night's sleep.
Sam: All right.
Laura: We need to sleep. We need to get up in the morning--
Taliesin: And then we'll talk about an airship. I'm really on board with the airship.
Sam: All right.
Laura: I think we need to go to Vasselheim or Whitestone.
Travis: Vasselheim.
Liam: We don't need an airship to do that.
Laura: No, we don't. But we also need to find out what's happening with Allura in Whiterun. Westruun. All those cities.
Sam: All right. Back to the keep then, I guess. When we get there can we check in on Gilmore and the queen?
Matt: Yes. And as you return to the keep, Pike has been taking care of the rest of the individuals, and she's been seeing to Gilmore's side. Gilmore is fast asleep, dealing with the tail end of a fever that has broken, after the healing from the day before. Earlier in the day, I should say. It also appears that Salda and the children have been in and out, keeping an eye as well. Pike, as you enter, looks up to you with a smile, and says, "He'll be all right. He's going to pull through."
Laura: That's wonderful.
Matt: "I should probably stay with him for a bit. Make sure he's okay."
Liam: Is he unconscious still, or just sleeping?
Matt: He is asleep, currently, yeah. "He's been conscious throughout the day while you were gone, but he's got to rest a bit more. He's still had a rough few days."
Travis: It's dead on.
Taliesin: Just needs headphones.
Matt: I just need headphones, and to brush against the mic occasionally. Especially during really really impactful story moments.
Liam: "What? What?"
Matt: So you guys find yourselves resting for the evening. You take to a night's sleep.
Laura: You going to sleep, Grog?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah, you got to sleep.
Travis: I got to sleep.
Matt: If you don't sleep you're going to start getting levels of exhaustion for the next day.
Travis: Oh. Okay.
Matt: All right. So you lose the strength bonus. Everyone, you can get half of your hit dice back.
Travis: That's a lot of--
Liam: As the sun goes down? It's been down and everyone's going to their rooms? I go to Keyleth's door and knock on it.
Matt: Keyleth.
Marisha: I open the door. Hi.
Liam: Hi. I don't want to be alone tonight. Do you?
Marisha: I haven't been wanting to be alone most nights. And I let him in.
Matt: Okay. So, we--
Laura: Bow-chicka-wow-wow!
Matt: Jump forward to the next morning--
Taliesin: That wasn't the kind of ship I was hoping to get. (laughter)
Taliesin: I don't think we can all fit on that ship.
Matt: So, next morning, you all wake up; full hit points, get back half of your max hit dice that you spent. All your spells back.
Laura: I give Scanlan the Hat of Disguise back.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: You sure you don't need it?
Laura: Yeah, fuck 'em.
Sam: All right. Keep up those rhymes. Not bad for a first timer. (laughter)
Matt: All right, so. What's the plan?
Sam: You know, Vex, I don't want to be alone right now. (laughter)
Laura: I take his face and I push him down on the ground.
Matt: All right. What's the plan?
Marisha: I don't know.
Laura: Do we have a plan?
Taliesin: I suppose our plan is the Slayer's Take next?
Travis: Yeah, Vasselheim.
Sam: How do we get there? Wait, we have to get rid of all the 'fugees.
Laura: Yeah. We need to go to Whitestone, then.
Taliesin: Well, here's the question is do we want to head towards Vasselheim from Whitestone?
Laura: Yeah, let's do that.
Taliesin: So we'll all go. We'll take the last of the-- I can't believe I'm going to say this-- the last of the 'fugees.
Sam: Yes. Ooh, la la la.
Laura: Wait. All of our guards, and our servants, as well. I don't want to leave everyone here.
Sam: We're abandoning the keep?
Laura: I don't know what else to do. If dragons attack, our five guards aren't going to be able to do anything.
Liam: One dragon crashed in the roof of the building.
Taliesin: Accidentally smushed.
Liam: What are the cook and the maid going to do?
Taliesin: Make it breakfast.
Liam: Jarett's pretty badass, but I don't think he can handle that.
Travis: Dragons get hungry.
Sam: When we come back, our keep will be gone.
Taliesin: And we'll be able to build it back up.
Marisha: It'll match the rest of the city, Scanlan.
Liam: Percival's the lord of Whitestone. He's got a castle!
Laura: We find a new keep.
Sam: But my room is just the way I want it.
Taliesin: I'm sure that some lucky dragon's going to come and shit in your bed. It'll be fine.
Sam: All right, if we're going to leave the keep, I'll need a moment in my room.
Liam: You'll find another room bathed in self-loathing. (laughter)
Liam: It doesn't need to be here.
Taliesin: It takes a good month to bathe a room in that much self-loathing.
Sam: You look like you're glowing this morning.
Liam: That's ridiculous.
Sam: I've never seen you quite so chipper.
Taliesin: Let's gather what we need, make sure that Gilmore is ready to move, as well. We'll bring everybody through to Whitestone.
Sam: All right.
Matt: All right.
Laura: I guess we should go tell the guards that they probably will have to leave, if they want.
Taliesin: And that they can come work in Whitestone.
Laura: Well, I don't want to force them to, but of course they're welcome to.
Liam: Why don't you go ask the guards? I'll go talk to the kitchen staff.
Laura: All right.
Travis: I know who she's going to talk to.
Laura: He's the captain of the guards, anyway.
Matt: We'll say for the sake of brevity, you speak with the rest of the keep's staff, including the guards as well. Jarett for the most part is like, "As long as I'm still getting paid, we're more than happy to go where you need us to be. If it's further away from dragons, I am okay with that."
Sam: Don't you need your tools?
Taliesin: I can pack up my kit, and I've also technically got a reasonable workshop back in Whitestone.
Matt: Okay, so you gather your materials, you prepare at the tree in the center of the keep, you say your goodbyes--
Sam: Before we go out there, I go to my room, I take a dump on my bed--
Matt: You've used it at the temple of Sarenrae--
Sam: No, it's not a potion. Just a straight-up poo.
Matt: Just a straight-up poo? Okay. Marking your territory. I respect that.
Sam: I hang a note on the gate of the keep.
Travis: Shitting on your own bed?
Sam: I don't want anyone else to use it. And with a butter knife, I put a note on the gate to the keep that says, "If Kaylie comes, go to Whitestone. P.S. If my painting is delivered, please forward to Scanlan Shorthalt, care of Whitestone."
Matt: All righty.
Travis: "Mind the poo."
Laura: I leave a note for Allura, and tell her we've headed to Whitestone, as well.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I don't say Whitestone. I say, "the place where we sent you originally," so she knows where it is.
Matt: Okay. Notes are placed. Spell is prepared?
Taliesin: I've packed everything that could possibly be used to make anything dangerous.
Matt: Okay. You have your supplies at the ready. You all gather in the center of the temple of Sarenrae. Keyleth?
Laura: Not yet, Keyleth!
Taliesin: We'll be back.
Marisha: What's wrong? Are you ready, Vex?
Laura: I mean, it's the first time we've had a home in forever, and we're leaving it.
Sam: Can you make it disappear, or something?
Laura: We can go. It's nothing.
Marisha: I can put Hallucinatory Terrain over it, that'll last a bit, but not long enough to make it worthwhile.
Laura: It's just stone.
Liam: We've done it once before. We can do it again.
Taliesin: It will be built back better than before. That's what we do.
Laura: Let's go.
Matt: The portal opens outside of the tree, and all of the refugees start rushing through. You guys give chase, following over to the opposite side, where Whitestone waits. You all emerge from the Sun Tree in the center of the familiar town.
Liam: Fucking cold!
Matt: It is chilly. Not as snow-dappled as it was when you first arrived. A little has melted, and the clouds are a little bit more open; you can see some of the blue sky above you. It's actually a beautiful day, if a bit chilly. As you emerge, you can see there's a few individuals in the center of the town, including a couple of the original refugees that seem to be waiting for the rest to come through. They greet you as soon as you arrive, and rush up and grab a couple of people that they had met at your keep. Some come forward and say, "Thank you. I'm so glad you made it!" They shake your hands. You've arrived back in Whitestone. So, do you guys want to wait here for the day, and then make your way to Vasselheim?
Sam: Do we need to talk to anybody here?
Taliesin: Just to set up to make sure that the queen and her children are taken in at the castle.
Liam: I imagine you'll fill your sister in.
Taliesin: I will. I'll fill my sister in on how they're to be taken care of. Make sure that Gilmore is taken care of.
Sam: We may want to stock up on potions and stuff before we leave.
Laura: Yeah, buy as much as we can.
Taliesin: There's a shop.
Matt: There is, but you guys have cleaned it out.
Laura: Buy stuff in Vasselheim.
Matt: They have not had an opportunity to restock. Their main providers have been killed.
Liam: Do you think that with the time that's passed, Cassandra has found any of the belongings of the Briarwoods? They were pretty snazzy.
Taliesin: We can ask about that.
Matt: You approach Cassandra, who is happy to greet you once you return. "Did you have a question?"
Taliesin: Vax?
Liam: We need to kill some dragons, and we are out of everything. You've been here a while. Have you found anything of the Briarwoods? Any store of treasure or potion or anything of use?
Matt: "Well, the personal effects you all retrieved when they were defeated. What remnants of income or gold which they'd kept was put in with the rest of the Whitestone treasury when they took over."
Liam: Not so much interested in gold as in means of protection or healing.
Matt: "They weren't really specialized in healing, I'm afraid, and what bits of protection they had, you've already taken. But if gold is what you need, we can probably spare you some."
Laura: I mean, I'm not going to say no to the gold.
Taliesin: Obviously, we'll sieve the coffer a little bit because we're going to need it for the mission.
Laura: So very generous of you.
Taliesin: Also, let's re-employ our castle guards as the Emon royal guards in the meantime, and they can serve the queen and her children.
Laura: I like it.
Matt: "That can be very easily presented. Oh, here we are!" There's a small chest with a lid that she hands it over to you. Actually, puts it out and your hands are already out. "All right. 2,000 gold from our coffers. It's not much, but we have to keep the city running."
Laura: Of course.
Taliesin: And a small amount of the green gem, if that would be possible, that's left over from the mining operation.
Matt: "Of the glass?"
Taliesin: Of the glass. If possible.
Matt: "Yes, certainly."
Taliesin: Thank you. I'm working on something.
Matt: "Very well." It takes a few minutes for that to be retrieved from down south of the tomb in the mausoleum, but nevertheless, you get four half-dollar-sized pieces of residuum glass.
Taliesin: Perfect.
Matt: Four shards of residuum glass. "I hope that's of aid to you. Apology for the confusion. We have quite a bit of individuals to find homes for, and get them running."
Taliesin: Gilmore will be of great help.
Matt: "Yes, as you've told me."
Taliesin: (laughs) I'm sorry to drop this all on you, and I'm thankful.
Matt: "I'm thankful that we even have an opportunity to offer aid to somebody. That's thanks to you, so it's nothing on us."
Taliesin: It will not be the end of it, sadly.
Matt: "That's all right. Whatever we can do. Anyway, good luck."
Taliesin: I'll be off in the morning.
Sam: How are we getting to Vasselheim?
Taliesin: We can teleport.
Laura: Yeah, teleport, right?
Sam: Is that true?
Laura: Just pop on over, yeah. We sleep for the night, and then we go over to Vasselheim the next day.
Liam: Let's have dinner.
Laura: Hang out in Whitestone for the day.
Taliesin: I'm going to work on that little project.
Liam: Whitestone and chill.
Taliesin: The thing I was trying to attach to my gun but wasn't working, I'm going to try to attach it to my boot instead.
Matt: Interesting.
Taliesin: I can draw you a sketch.
Matt: All right. While the rest of you guys are attempting to rest, I need you to make a tinker tools check.
Liam: Tinker tools. This goes in here.
Taliesin: That's better. 22.
Matt: 22. You've affixed it to your boot. We'll see if it works.
Taliesin: And I've got one working piece? I know each individual build, I have to build the--
Sam: The nubbin.
Taliesin: The actual device itself has to be built for individual usage; it's not auto. I'm going to try and build one and see how it goes.
Matt: Okay. So total cost for the materials on that will put you at about 300 gold.
Laura: What?
Sam: 300 gold.
Taliesin: I'm working on something.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Laura: I mean, it's your city.
Liam: Are you borrowing 300 of your gold from the money you loaned to Vex?
Taliesin: Since the day I've met her, I've given her every bloody dime I've made. So, yes. I no longer even think about it anymore.
Laura: And I love you for it.
Taliesin: She's practically the royal treasurer. She's just happier that way.
Marisha: (laughing) "She's just happier that way."
Matt: All right. You find an evening's rest. The next morning comes uneventfully. You find yourselves refreshed. I'd say at this point, you're all at full hit dice after two nights of rest; you're fine. So, on to Whitestone, Keyleth?
Laura: Vasselheim?
Travis: Vasselheim?
Matt: Sorry. You're in Whitestone.
Liam: We were just here!
Matt: You recall you've seen a number of trees. The largest you've seen in Vasselheim would probably have been on the outskirts of--
Liam: Where we fought the hydra, maybe.
Marisha: We camped out in a few trees outside of Vasselheim.
Matt: Do you want to stop outside the city or within the city, is the question.
Marisha: Whatever's closest.
Travis: No. No magic in the city.
Laura: No magic in the city, remember?
Matt: No arcane magic. Divine magic is a different thing. There's plenty of divine magic within the city.
Laura: Oh, is there a teleportation circle? Do we have one in Whitestone?
Marisha: There wasn't a teleportation circle to Vasselheim.
Matt: There are no sigils to Vasselheim. Part of their defense process is preventing any secret intrusion in that regard.
Taliesin: We'll teleport to the outside of the city and perhaps sleep at the temple of Sarenrae.
Matt: There's the Abundant Terrace.
Laura: We always have rooms at Slayer's Take, remember.
Taliesin: We do always have rooms at Slayer's Take.
Marisha: What's the Abundant Terrace?
Matt: That's the section that Melora looks over. That is where primarily most of the farming, food--
Marisha: Yeah, let's go there.
Matt: That's where you know there are a number of orchards and things that are kept in that vicinity. If you wanted to.
Marisha: That's right outside the city?
Matt: It's within the city. It's one of the five quarters. I won't say quarters. It's one of the five areas.
Marisha: Sure.
Matt: Quarters.
Laura: Is Gilmore staying here in Whitestone? Yes?
Matt: Yeah, unless you want to try and bring him with you.
Laura: No, it makes sense to leave him here, right? Where do you want to stay, Gilmore?
Matt: (laughs) You're approaching Gilmore. He goes, "To be perfectly honest, I'm not quite feeling 100%, and let's just say I'm not a huge fan of the zealot type."
Laura: Understandable.
Matt: "Vasselheim doesn't really jangle my dingles."
Laura: You've got a whole bookstore devoted to you here.
Matt: "This is true."
Taliesin: I would appreciate your help in restarting the economy of Whitestone, to be fair.
Matt: "Well. (sighs) Guess it's not too late to open a new branch of Gilmore's Glorious Goods, since my other, possibly, two no longer exist. (sighs) I was so close to opening. I started from nothing! I can do it again. (coughs) Good luck, you all."
Taliesin: You as well.
Sam: So we're going to a tree outside of the city?
Travis: Yep.
Marisha: Well, it's in the farming district in the city.
Matt: It's in the actual city.
Laura: All right, cool.
Matt: All right. Using this once again off the Sun Tree, you guys step through. As you emerge out the other side, you are in the thick of a heavy orchard in the Abundant Terrace. There is heavy snowfall that has fallen recently here, and where it was cold in Whitestone, it's cold here in Vasselheim. You can see built-up ice and sleet that has recently been pushed off to the sides of the orchard. Even amongst this very cold weather, all of the plant life in this area is vibrant and springtime green. As you all emerge in the center of this orchard, you can see one of the nearby workers who's tilling the land looks over. "Hey! What are you doing here? You're not supposed to be in the middle of the orchard!"
Laura: Slayer's Take business. We'll keep moving.
Taliesin: We were just leaving.
Matt: (groans) "Fucking Slayer's Take. Do whatever the fuck they want." He drinks out of his canteen. "Fine! Just get out."
Liam: Glad that manticore's not in your orchard. That's all I can say.
Matt: "Manticore?"
Taliesin: That's just cruel.
Laura: Don't worry. We took care of it.
Matt: (weakly) "Thanks." He starts looking nervously over his shoulders as he goes back to his work. Eventually, you guys step outside of the Terrace, finding your way to the Quadroads, which is the central network that the four main portions of Vasselheim attach to. This is the Erathis-based center of the town. You have before you, to remind you, at the very northern part of the town is the extremely tall, pointed mountain known as Heaven's Stair. Attached to that mountain on one side is the Silver Talon's Reach. That is the main temple to Bahamut. To the left of it, against the mountain, not actually into it, is the Braving Grounds. This is the area that is geared towards Kord, the deity of war, where you had previously had a conversation with the Dawn Master, the Earthbreaker Groon. There's the Platinum Sanctuary in the Silver Talon's Reach, which is where the Highbearer Vord, the Silver-Touched, the high priest of Bahamut is. You also just left the Abundant Terrace, and there is the Quadroads, which is where the Slayer's Take currently is. And there is the Duskmeadow, which is the Raven Queen's domain. Where do you guys want to go?
Liam: Remind me, what was the Duskmeadow, again? Was that where we chased the rakshasa?
Matt: That is where the Amaranthine Oubliette resides, which is the prison of the city.
Marisha: What was the name of the section of the city that has the Slayer's Take?
Matt: That's the Quadroads, the Erathis, deity of civilization.
Travis: So, like, I really want to go talk to the Kung Fu Panda master. I don't think we're going to get a lot of fights in. The guy, I think he was the teacher of Kern. The guy I beat in the crucible.
Liam: That ripped, chiseled old man?
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: The guy who beat you twice?
Liam: No.
Laura: No.
Travis: No.
Travis: And nobody beat me twice. He got lucky once, get it straight. I want to go talk to him because maybe we need some more fighters and strong folks and I think he might know where they might be.
Sam: We should talk to the Slayer's Take, as well.
Taliesin: We should get our rooms.
Laura: Yeah, let's go post up.
Taliesin: We have things to put down.
Marisha: And also only about a day's travel from Pyrah.
Sam: What's that? Pyrah?
Laura: Her home.
Sam: Oh.
Taliesin: What's left of it. That will be a trip that will be necessary soon, but not yet.
Matt: You guys hit the Slayer's Take first, or where are you heading?
Laura: Slayer's Take.
Travis: Slayer's Take.
Laura: Just to let them know we're here and we need some rooms.
Matt: Okay. You make your way to the outside of the main Slayer's Take guildhall. The dark wood exterior greets you happily. You can see they still have a gathering of various antlers of creatures that are tangled into each other that form this rustic-looking entrance. And there on the front doors, you see emblazoned the Slayer's Take-- for lack of a better term, their symbol with the words of their actual guild spread across it, as you saw before. Opening the front door, you can see within the main foyer area, there is the dark iron chandeliers that run across the entire length of the moot hall, if you will. Across the front area, you find the clerk desk. Sitting behind it, a familiar red-haired, tousled, chin-bearded, scarred-up tiny man with his feet up on the desk, falling asleep in his chair.
Laura: (laughs) Oi!
Liam: Ta-da!
Matt: "What is this craziness? (laughs) Ah! It's been some time."
Laura: It has.
Matt: "So. Hello."
Laura: Hi.
Matt: "What's your business? What are you looking for?"
Laura: Dragons? Have you heard about anything?
Matt: "Other than the fact that you killed one. That is the most recent, but nothing beyond that, really, no."
Laura: We're going to need rooms.
Liam: And we're probably going to need to speak to your lady lord.
Laura: Your wife.
Liam: Well, your wife, but I'm talking about the boss, here.
Laura: That's his wife.
Liam: Higher still  the sphinx.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: "Vanessa, she's currently out on a hunt. Should be back in the next day or so."
Liam: We've urgent business to discuss with her. For now, we need a place to stay.
Matt: "Well, you're always welcome here. This is your home away from home, so please, take a load off. Pick a room. It's up to you. It's good to see you all so healthy!"
Laura: Healthy.
Sam: Thank you, Mertin. Right?
Matt: "Yes. So glad to hear."
Liam: The only reason I remember that is it sounds like merkin.
Laura: Is Zahra around?
Matt: "She's actually currently out with Vanessa on a hunt, as we speak."
Laura: That's wonderful.
Sam: Perhaps we could see her.
Liam: Sorry, we're tired. We've been hopping all over.
Matt: "Me, too. I was sleeping when you came in. I don't mind if I get back to that."
Liam: Sorry. Any room?
Matt: "If it's somebody else's room, they'll let you know, so please, take your time."
Laura: Well, settle in?
Taliesin: I'm settling in.
Marisha: Yeah, I guess we all settle in.
Matt: There's a number of empty rooms. Doesn't look like there's a lot of individuals around. As you walk down one of the hallways, though, you do see there is a card table, and the two individuals in there, you see a very scarred, burly, and frustrated dwarf who's throwing down cards on a table. Black, long series of beards, and his hair over his beard. You see Thorbir is sitting there at the card table with another man wearing really beautiful, ornate armor that is well-polished; very short, dirty blond hair, who is apparently owning him at cards, going, (chuckles) "You've terrible luck, friend. I'm sorry to hear this."
Laura: (whispering) Aldor.
Matt: It's Aldor.
Taliesin: Whoa!
Matt: Thorbir's sitting there, and throws his cards on the table. (scoffs, sighs) "They tell me I'm supposed to have the luck of the dwarves." (laughter)
Matt: "Oh. I guess it's about time you all showed up. I'm going to get a drink." And he gets up, away from the table, and walks away from the rest of you, with a half-hearted "hi," but he's in a huffy mood and walks off. Aldor takes his winnings and scoops the change into a pouch.
Liam: Aldor, Aldor, Aldor.
Sam: How's Lyra? Have you seen her? (laughter)
Matt: "Why? Have you seen her?"
Sam: Not in a while, but we thought you guys were engaged to be married. No?
Taliesin: That's the last we heard.
Matt: He reaches forward and grabs your shirt and pulls you in. "Where did you hear that?"
Sam: Not from a reliable source, I promise you.
Taliesin: Very sketchy source.
Matt: "Good. You haven't seen her, have you?"
Sam: Not in a long time.
Matt: "Good."
Liam: She's still a member of the Slayer's Take, of course, though. Isn't she?
Matt: "I assume. I just run if I see her. She's a bit--"
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: No! She seems nice to me.
Matt: "Good. You know what, actually, if you want to do me a favor. I mean, she's a nice girl, probably pretty easy if you ask her. Why don't you take her off my hands and go on a date? Take her out for dinner. Distract her."
Sam: You saw her first. I'm a man of honor.
Matt: "Oh. No. I should go." He grabs his stuff and leaves in a huff.
Travis: Good to see him.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: He's looking well.
Sam: True love.
Marisha: It's weird being back, you guys.
Sam: Well, I guess we should ask them all if they want to come with us to fight a dragon?
Marisha: Yeah, do we do that now, or do we do that in the morning?
Travis: In the morning.
Taliesin: In the morning.
Liam: It feels like we were just running screaming from dragons in the sky.
Marisha: Yeah. We traveled.
Sam: We'll sleep on it. We'll talk to Nessa in the morning.
Liam: We'll get up in the morning, we'll take some of that gold, we'll put it to good use, we'll wait until Nessa gets back, and then we'll carve out a plan.
Sam: Okay.
Liam: Percival?
Taliesin: That sounds just fine.
Sam: Kord's strength to us all.
Travis: Yeah!
Laura: I wonder if Kashaw is still here.
Liam: Probably, he works here.
Marisha: Who?
Sam: Kashaw. That was the one that they went on a--
Laura: Oh! Right, Keyleth? The guy that kissed you.
Marisha: (stammers)
Taliesin: Brooding. Handsome. He was so troubled.
Liam: He was.
Laura: He was very handsome.
Marisha: So we should probably go to sleep, you guys.
Laura: It's morning, still.
Matt: Yeah, it's maybe 10 00am.
Marisha: Take a nap?
Matt: It's across the world, so it's technically earlier.
Marisha: You know, it's jet lag. It's teleport lag. It gets to you.
Laura: Maybe Nessa and Zahra have seen him. We could find out. We could use another healer, always.
Matt: It would be 10 00, 10 30 in Whitestone. About 6:30, 7:00 in the morning in Vasselheim.
Laura: Pike, speaking of clerics, do you want to check in with your temple?
Matt: Pike has actually stayed back in Whitestone to help the refugees.
Travis: Yep.
Laura: Oh. She didn't even come to Vasselheim?
Matt: No, but she did say that she's going to keep an eye, best she can, through Sarenrae. When she can pop in, she'll try and see if she can project her form, going forward.
Liam: She's led by her conscience.
Matt: She's led by her schedule in New York. (laughs)
Taliesin: We didn't think to leave her a stone, did we?
Matt: If you'd like to, you could have.
Sam: Would we have done that?
Taliesin: I would have definitely suggested leaving her with one of the stones.
Laura: Yeah, we probably should leave the stone with her so she can pop in with us.
Matt: Okay. We'll say that she does that. She keeps a gatestone with her, just in case.
Travis: Trinket stays in Emon, right?
Laura: Shut up!
Taliesin: Trinket's going to guard the castle.
Laura: Trinket is right here, right now! He has been quiet, because he's really well-behaved.
Matt: Trinket's been practicing his stealth. (bear grunts)
Laura: So stealthy, darling.
Matt: All right, so you've set up your rooms, your stuff about you. You have a full day before seemingly anyone from the Slayer's Take is going to come back. Where do you want to head?
Taliesin: Individual?
Travis: Individuals? Yeah.
Liam: Oh, shit, can we buy potions in this city?
Taliesin: I don't know.
Liam: Shit! You can't, can you?
Laura: I'm afraid to start anything. It's 11 00.
Marisha: I know, it's late.
Matt: All right. Then we will end it there this evening. I just wanted to get an idea of where you guys were going for next week.
Laura: Oh, okay.
Travis: I plan to go see Earthbreaker Groon.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I want to wait and talk to Zahra.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I may want to have a conversation at the temple of the Raven Queen.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Zahra sounds fun.
Laura: Right? But I do want to buy potions, as well, and stock up.
Taliesin: Yeah, that, too.
Liam: Nothing. I'd probably tag along with Percival.
Laura: What?
Travis: Old punchy man? You don't want to come with?
Sam: Oh. Yeah, I'll come watch you if you're going to have a fight.
Travis: No, I'm going to have a conversation.
Liam: You're right. I do want to see Old Punchy Man.
Taliesin: We can do both.
Travis: Some hand-to-hand?
Sam: Watch you lose again.
Travis: I'm not fighting him!
Matt: All right, so Vax and Scanlan are going with Grog to the Trial Forge.
Laura: I'm going to stock up on a bunch of stuff.
Matt: Okay. We'll do some shopping.
Taliesin: I'm going to go to the temple of the Raven Queen. I also want to talk to our mapmaker friend.
Matt: So you're going to the Raven's Crest. Got it.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: All right, cool. We'll pick it up next week at that point, guys. Awesome. Well done, guys!
Travis: We abandoned Greyskull Keep.
Marisha: Yeah, we did.
Laura: Yeah, we did, and it's sad.
Marisha: It's very sad. We abandoned Emon.
Matt: Damn.
Laura: We can't help it from there. We have to go somewhere else in order to come back to it.
Liam: Greyskull Keep is going to be an ancient dragon's kitty litter box.
Travis: I'm allergic to cats.
Marisha: If you love it, you have to--
Marisha: Let it go.
Laura: Let it go.
Liam: Like our first hometown, or our elven town?
Laura: Don't say that.
Taliesin: I was going to say, do you know who says, "if you love it, you have to let it go?" The one who got dumped, that's who! Sorry.
Matt: That's horrible.
Taliesin: Yeah, you are. I'm a terrible person.
Matt: Well, guys. Thank you so much for watching. We'll pick this up next Thursday. Those we'll see tomorrow in Colorado, looking forward to it, and tomorrow, look for my next episode of GM Tips. That'll be fun, and is it Thursday yet?
Taliesin: See you in Arizona!

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons. Hate you, Liam. (laughter)
Travis: That was good! Really nice. Some good flavor on it.
Matt: You'll never know. So anyway! Welcome new folks. People who aren't new folks, welcome back. We have some announcements to get to real fast, then we'll jump into the actual story proper here. But, yeah! So, first and foremost, I wanted to give a big thanks and shout-out to Syrinscape, I mentioned them in last week's game, I put together my gaming playlists on their platform, and I'm going to be trying them out tonight to make sure everything works out cool, but their setup is fantastic and I'm really excited about being able to overlap audio, and things fade in and out. If you haven't checked it out, and you want to really amp up your tabletop gaming, it's phenomenal. But they're not paying for this, I'm really excited about it. So that's that, Syrinscape's awesome. Marisha, you want to talk about Signal Boost?
Marisha: Yeah! The first epil-- episode.
Laura: Epilsode!
Marisha: The first epil, of--
Taliesin: Epilay!
Marisha: Epil, epilay, epilogue. The first episode of Signal Boost went live on Tuesday. Go check it out on GeekandSundry.com. Go watch it, it's good fun. And you should go watch it so we don't get cancelled, and we'll keep making more episodes.
Liam: Is that how it works?
Marisha: Apparently!
Matt: Yeah, it's the weirdest thing.
Marisha: It's crazy.
Laura: They care about that?
Marisha: Yeah. And I talk about Rat Queens, in it, and--
Laura: Yes! I saw! It's so good, Marisha. It's really funny.
Taliesin: It's like ten minutes of your-- you have more minutes than two minutes, spend a couple of minutes.
Marisha: And I tell you about cool things that I like. That I picked out myself. My favorite things. Done.
Matt: Watch it. It's good. All right. Next thing I wanted to announce for you guys, tonight's donations, and all donations for the week, are going to be going, as opposed to 826 overall, are going to go to 826Seattle specifically, to Fearless Ideas, is what it's called there, their section up there, you can go to FearlessIdeas.org. This past week there was a terrible gas explosion in Seattle, you may have seen on the news, and it did a lot of damage to that vicinity, including Fearless Ideas, and they've had to cancel a bunch of their stuff, and they're trying to get things repaired and going. So all of our donations this evening will be going towards them and helping them get that effort taken care of. So think good thoughts and help out if you can. Let's see.
Travis: Love you, Seattle!
Marisha: Love you, Seattle!
Matt: 826. We've, next Friday, in Anaheim, at WonderCon, Friday night, we'll be doing a Critical Role panel, from 7:00 to 8:00pm, in Room 515A.
Laura: Wait, are we supposed to be at that?
Matt: Next Friday. Next Friday. But most of us will be there for that panel. We'll be doing a Q&A, answering questions, talking about the show, for all the folks that are local or coming to that convention in the Anaheim area of southern California. So, look forward to seeing you there, next Friday.
Laura: Yes, that's when we-- I can't say. I'll talk to you guys afterwards.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. We'll go over that. Mystery-- secret, I like it.
Laura: Secret, secret.
Matt: Wanted to give another shout-out to Dwarven Forge again, I mentioned them last week. You got to get a glimpse of some of the map stuff they gave us here at Critical Role to help improve our battle mats and scenarios on occasion. Their new Castle Builder Kickstarter is phenomenal, and if you're looking to do big structures and cool castle-based ramparts and parapets and everything, go check it out, it might be right up your alley.
Travis: So pretty.
Matt: So pretty. It's so pretty. Also, Laura, if you want to announce, we have some new merch up in the store!
Laura: Go check GeekandSundry.com, go to their store, right now, because they're up, and it's so awesome, and I can't wait for you guys to see, we have a Gilmore's Glorious Goods t-shirt. (cheering)
Laura: And I've been so excited about this shirt coming out, I can't wait to wear it, why aren't we wearing it right now?
Matt: (Gilmore voice) "Don't worry. Trust me, it's a fabulous shirt. Some would even say it's quite glorious."
Travis: Oh my god, oh my god.
Laura: As well as the Gilmore's Glorious Goods t-shirts, we also have exclusive Critical Role d20 rings, spinny rings. Those are limited, so if you get them, then snag them fast, because they're going to be gone.
Travis: We get one of those before they disappear, right?
Laura: I think they said they were going to set us aside some, they'd better.
Travis: They are. They're bitchin'. You spin it, the 20 is the Critical Role logo.
Laura: Why don't we have them right now?! At intermission, maybe we can grab them at intermission.
Travis: They're sick.
Matt: For those who don't know what those are, the d20 spin rings, or spin rings in general, they're actually two separate moving pieces with ball bearings on the inside, and you have all numbers one through 20 on the actual ring, and you can spin it with your finger, and it acts like a die roll!
Laura: And the d20, when you crit succeed, it's a Critical Role logo. Just putting that out there.
Travis: You can do all your life decisions based off a ring.
Matt: What could possibly go wrong?
Liam: You still can die from them, though, just to be clear.
Taliesin: Roll a one.
Marisha: And we are not held responsible if that happens.
Travis: You go straight to Craven Edge.
Liam: It's appropriately called a "die."
Laura: Whatever.
Matt: Liam!
Liam: Yeah?
Matt: You wanted to--
Liam: Sure, I could talk about a couple of things. Hey, a quick shout-out for our neighbor, Ivan van Norman's Kickstarter, The ABCs of RPGs, has three days left. I backed it immediately, because I like D&D and I have kids, and you put those two things together and good things happen. So that's good, three days left. Also, hey, if you like to put your dice in boxes, I tell you what. Wyrmwood Gaming make beautiful boxes, and if you go over to their site and you use the code critrole.
All: Crit. Role.
Liam: There it is. You get free shipping, they're beautiful, they have all different kinds of woods to put your dice inside. Is there anything else? Oh, yeah! Oh, okay. Yeah, hey, some of us, not all of us, are going to be going up to San Fran later this month to make appearances on GameSpot's show The Lobby for a couple of segments, and then, also then hopping over to hang with the guys at Kinda Funny to play D&D.
Laura: Those guys are stupid.
Matt: Which, a few of us will be running a quick little one-shot game I'll be running with the aid of one of their local gentlemen. And it should be a ridiculously ridiculous time! And it'll be a lot of fun.
Liam: And I'm curious to see, because there's going to be two DMs, in sort of a Batman and Robin-type relationship kind of thing?
Matt: Oh yeah. We got plans. I've co-DM'd before, it can be very interesting. And very chaotic. I'm excited.
Travis: Going to kill everybody.
Matt: Probably.
Laura: This has nothing to do with announcements, but I want to only roll green dice tonight. For Saint Patrick's Day.
Marisha: That's a good idea, I've got a set of green dice. I'll get them out. Sure.
Travis: That's stupid. I have gray-ass dice and a blue one.
Marisha: Got to get them all out.
Matt: This is technically light green, guys, by the way, just so you're aware. Cool. Just making sure we're all cool on that.
Travis: Plus the underwear you're wearing.
Matt: Shh, that's just for you.
Liam: Travis and I are wearing green snake shirts, because (Irish accent) Saint Patrick drove the snakes out of Ireland, into Burbank.
Matt: Drove the Slytherin from Ireland. He got rid of them all.
Travis: Yeah. I took the Floo network.
Marisha: And I got this in Ireland, so it counts.
Laura: It kind of counts, Marisha.
Marisha: It counts.
Liam: (Irish accent) It's fucking Irish wool!
Marisha: And this is green.
Travis: Yeah, made from real Irish cats.
Matt: They are the best, aren't they? Last but not least, unless anyone else has any other announcements to make, anything else?
Taliesin: Oh! I got a quick one, Book of Murder came out today, so you can hear me do a very weird accent, it's great. So. Yes. Very weird accent.
Matt: And last, next week, we'll have a special guest joining us for an episode, a new guest, the intrepid Nerdist himself, Chris Hardwick, will be coming in for a game next week. (cheering)
Matt: Oh, I'm excited! We made his character this past Monday, and it should be a lot of fun. He's actually fun to game with. We've played D&D a couple times, and he'll be a good addition to the team for his brief stop by. So next week, come check him out on our show!
Travis: Uh-oh, what does that mean?
Matt: So thanks for coming, Chris. I don't know, it'll be fun.
Taliesin: Cleric, is what it means.
Matt: Hoping every guest is a cleric. Just in case.
Travis: Save us! From ourselves.
Matt: All right, then. Without further ado, unless you guys have anything else, we'll go ahead and hop into a quick synopsis of where we are in Critical Role.
Liam: Shit. Help. Help. Help. Help.
Matt: Sam will be here shortly, guys, don't freak out. He's dealing with children and traffic.
Taliesin: Not at the same time.
Marisha: Damn it, you beat me to it. I was going to say those two aren't mutually exclusive. Children and traffic.
Matt: So. Where we left off. The party of Vox Machina, having to deal with the current terrible danger of the Chroma Conclave, a collection of very dangerous dragons that have torn through the entire Tal'Dorei countryside, have then gone on this quest to collect allies, and find these items called the Vestiges of Divergence, these artifacts of ancient wars that carry great power and seem to be the best way you could prepare yourselves for going up against these terrifyingly powerful entities. In searching for this, you went and made your way to Vasselheim, where you reacquired and reestablished friendships with Zahra and Kashaw, two allies from previous instalments of our wondrous adventure, as well as getting Lady Kima on loan from the Platinum Sanctuary of Bahamut, and you all went to seek the first bit of information you discovered about one of these vestiges, not too far from Vasselheim. The champion of the Raven Queen's armor that had been entombed within this temple that had sunken beneath a lake. After traveling to this lake, finding your way through this subterranean, watery location, you found the location of the tomb, upon which, a series of fish creatures, called kuo-toa, had seemingly been worshiping another denizen of this temple, a rather strange slime-covered beholder, that then surprised the party. The battle hard-fought, you came out victorious, and upon going to retrieve your spoils, a trap was set off in the tomb, dodged by one, survived by a bear, and claimed the life of our beloved Vex'ahlia. After a resurrection ritual attempted by Kashaw, the party helping, they were successful in bringing her soul back from the other side, restoring her to life, and the party then, figuring out what their next step in their journey was, took their new allies, via Keyleth's Teleportation via Plants spell, back to Whitestone, which seems to be building as this defensive bastion, this currently not on the radar of the Conclave location that needs defenses, and a good place to keep your allies at the time. And that was where we left off, as you guys had just stepped back into Whitestone.
Laura: We haven't actually slept yet, then.
Matt: Nope!
Laura: It's late.
Marisha: What time is it here?
Matt: I'd say through the evening's travels-- Well, you guys slept all night the night before you went to the temple, the temple's probably been--
Marisha: That's true, we did sleep, actually, we camped out.
Laura: We did?
Marisha: Remember? You talked to Zahra, and I talked to Kash? Then we slept.
Matt: Yeah, you guys did camp out.
Laura: Oh. I didn't know if we camped, I thought we talked.
Matt: You talked.
Marisha: We at least chilled. I don't know.
Matt: Regardless. You found your way to Whitestone. We'll say for the sake of the current setting, you've come in in a rather overcast mid-afternoon in Whitestone, you may have spent some time there gathering yourselves as your allies scope out their new surroundings, the people of Whitestone accepting you as you arrive, you can always see people walking by and catching a glance at the group of heroes known as Vox Machina that helped liberate them from the oppressive Briarwoods not long ago.
Taliesin: Keep crawling out of trees.
Marisha: It's always weird. Not crawling out of trees, that people like us.
Travis: Should we inspect our spoils?
Taliesin: I was going to say, we should take the armor and the necklace to the castle and have it inspected.
Laura: Is Lady Allura here?
Matt: Kima, who is with you, is like, "Is she?"
Laura: No. Well, she was on her way to Westruun, and we haven't heard from her yet.
Taliesin: No.
Matt: "Haven't heard from her since-- You say Westruun was under attack as well?"
Laura: Yes, but she knew it. She was going in secret.
Matt: "That prideful woman." She slings her hammer off her shoulder and slams it to the ground and says, "Well. If she doesn't arrive in the next few hours, I'm going to gather a party and we're going to go to Westruun and find her."
Travis: Yeah!
Marisha: Kima-- Wait, what? Why?
Laura: Wait, there's a dragon there, Kima, a very large one, and she was being very, very stealthy--
Matt: Her hammer slams into her metallic armor, and she goes, "I've a much bigger dragon backing me up." And she looks up to the sky for a second and grins.
Travis: Lady Kima don't give a fuck.
Laura: We'll wait, Kima.
Matt: (frustrated sigh)
Laura: Going in loud will only cause more trouble.
Matt: "I'll wait a few days."
Laura: She should be here by then.
Marisha: I can always attempt to scry, and see if I can check in on her.
Matt: "Okay. Not a bad idea."
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: "Okay. I need a drink."
Marisha: Let's get somewhere safe.
Matt: She charges off, looking for the nearest tavern.
Marisha: Here, I guess. I don't know. I forget it's not overrun by vampires, I'm sorry. Sorry, I forgot; it's all right now.
Laura: Maybe somewhere safe, like right here--
Marisha: Like right here, sorry, there's a lot going on.
Matt: Zahra and Kashaw looking around expectantly as you continue this conversation. Kash crosses his arms, goes, "Great place. There's a lot of white." Of which Zahra comes and steps over and is like, "Don't worry, darling. (laughter) So, sleeping arrangements, I hope?"
Laura: Yes, the castle.
Taliesin: We'll be putting you up in the castle.
Matt: "That's what I like to hear. All right. To the castle, Kash?" "Sure. It's better than, well, it's better than anything. Let's go for the castle." And they both make their way towards Whitestone Castle, to find a comfortable place to get themselves situated in their new surroundings.
Laura: So we're healed up, we are healed, we are not running the risk of dying at any moment, because we've been healed.
Matt: What is that? What is that blur of green?
Travis: It's a fucking leprechaun, get it!
Sam: Sorry, sorry, sorry.
Liam: You should be.
Marisha: Your shirt, is that new? Because I love it so much.
Sam: Thanks! But I'm also wearing a tie because it's a special night.
Laura: Right. It's a special occasion.
Sam: (sighs) So, is Allura dead? (laughter)
Travis: Kima just left, so--
Laura: She's on her way to a tavern. Kima's drinking it up. Grog! Kima's drinking it up.
Marisha: Are we heading to a tavern?
Taliesin: We're heading to the castle. We're going to talk to friends, we're going to take a look at--
Travis: Corpse armor, hello.
Marisha: Oh, corpse armor.
Travis: Yeah. You know, the thing that almost killed our friend over here?
Laura: It did kill me. According to you.
Taliesin: It-- yes.
Travis: Yeah, but, I mean, you're here, so you didn't die. But you did. But you didn't. But you did. And then you didn't.
Laura: Thanks, Grog.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: All right, so. You guys all heading to the castle?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: You head to the castle. Cassandra isn't there at the moment, but Keeper Yennen is currently there with a few other members of the makeshift council you guys put together towards the end. One of the heads of the entire farming establishment here in Whitestone is with them, and they're having a conversation. As Zahra and Kashaw burst in first, he's like, "I'm sorry, we're not currently taking visitors, could you-- Oh. Friends of yours, I presume?"
Taliesin: Good friends.
Laura: Helpers, actually. They're going to be here for a while. Hopefully.
Matt: "Gracious. Oh, I see you yourself carry the vestments of a man of the cloth. Who brings your power this day?" Kashaw gives him a look and goes, "You don't even want to know, buddy." Walks past him.
Taliesin: That was a really good Kashaw.
Matt: "Very well! I assume they're staying here as well."
Taliesin: Yes. We appreciate it greatly.
Matt: "They'll be taken care of, Percival."
Taliesin: They will be well worth your time. We also have something that needs a bit of study. We found something. We found two objects of power that we think may help us turn the table against the dragons.
Laura: Two objects?
Matt: "This is good news."
Taliesin: Two objects.
Laura: What was the second?
Taliesin: There was a necklace.
Laura: There was?
Taliesin: There was.
Sam: You were dead.
Laura: Oh. I must have missed it because I was dead. That's right.
Matt: "Dead?!"
Taliesin: It's been a very long day.
Sam: Mostly dead.
Marisha: Be very careful when handling this armor, is what we're trying to say.
Travis: Or don't handle it, and we'll take care of it.
Matt: "So, the armor is what killed you?"
Laura: No, actually, a trap that Percival set off is what killed me.
Taliesin: Yes, the--
Liam: What?
Taliesin: -- trap was a bit-- it was a bit, ah-- there was a trap. And it was well-protected.
Liam: What?
Laura: What, what, what? What?
Taliesin: Yes, what.
Laura: What?
Travis: (mutters) He didn't know that.
Laura: What? So these Vestiges.
Matt: "Vestiges."
Laura: These leathers, these things.
Matt: "Um--" And he puts a couple of small, armored, like, studded-leather gloves on and has to carefully reach out for the vestments as you hand them. And he grabs them. "Give me a bit of time with them, perhaps, I need to clarify what this enchantment may be. Do you mind staying around, just in case?"
Taliesin: Not at all.
Matt: "Don't feel strange that I don't trust this, but, based on your history with it, I would like a little backup." So, he carries you off down the far hallway, you didn't get this far into Whitestone when you initially came through, but towards the back there was a small study area converted into a research establishment largely set up for the ziggurat beneath the city. He clears off an area of the table and sets this down. And he takes some time working with the vestments before he eventually, and it's this awkward quiet of hearing him mutter to himself and bring out a symbol and bring over a minor enchantment to reveal information, that tearing into the divinity, the divine magic that is granted to him, before he says, "This carries the mark of the Raven Queen, a very strong mark. I've not seen power like this in but an object."
Laura: It was worn by one of her champions. The great Purvan.
Matt: "That's a strange name."
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: "Regardless, it appears that this armor does help fortify one's defenses from any sort of physical damage, as well as give you a chance of surviving even the most dangerous of near-death experiences. It also grants a fluid resistance to the elements. Here." And he hands it over, and-- who would like to take this? Item card to--
Travis: Well, you died for it, you--
Laura: I think I like it, but I'll just look at it.
Marisha: It's leather?
Laura: It's leather.
Matt: So, to give you the specifics on it, it's plus two to AC. Magical on top of the studded leather armor. Plus two enchantment, beyond just the studded leather armor. It does give you advantage on death saving throws.
Sam: You'll need that.
Matt: As it is called the Deathwalker's Ward, and once per short rest, you can set it to be resistant to one of the five types of damage.
Laura: You choose which one.
Matt: You choose. You can change it. You can leave it all on one, but if you want to change it during a short rest, you can shift it from fire or cold, or lightning--
Travis: Acid, or necrotic.
Sam: You're, like, indestructible now!
Marisha: Do you have fancy leather armor right now? What does your armor do right now? Anything?
Liam: It's acid-resistant.
Laura: My armor's acid-resistant, I sort of stole it from my brother. Do you want your acid-resistant armor back, then?
Liam: Whatever you want, Vex'ahlia.
Laura: He's in such a sour mood lately.
Travis: Well, yeah. Well, what about the necklace?
Matt: "The necklace as well?"
Taliesin: I hand it over.
Matt: He takes it, and he goes, "Well, the chain on this necklace is not actually part of the enchantment, it's merely to hold the crystal itself. The crystal is the item of particular interest here, this-- oh, wait a minute." He takes it and he scans over the table and pulls up a jeweler's eyepiece and inspects it closely. "There's something inside this gem."
Travis: Uh-oh.
Marisha: (groans) Not again.
Laura: What is it?
Marisha: Why do things like living in gems? It can't be comfortable.
Travis: It might be a worm.
Laura: It's like tequila.
Matt: "I can't actually ascertain the nature of whatever being is encased within this, but--"
Laura: There's a being, it's a being?
Marisha: Encased.
Laura: Is it a soul gem?
Marisha: Like something put it in there.
Matt: He takes a moment and concentrates on his holy symbol of Pelor, and you can see as he puts aside the eyepiece, his eyes glaze over with a grayish, frosted white color, at which point he inspects the gem very closely, and there's this slight vibration in the air around him. As soon as it fades about a minute later, he pulls back and goes, "This is referred to as the Raven's Slumber. It's actually a small gateway to a tiny pocket-plane."
Sam: A pocket-plane?
Marisha: Ooh.
Matt: "It can contain one creature. You have to contact whatever it was, and it can't be too big, but it can essentially contain something indefinitely within this."
Laura: But something's already in there?
Matt: "Something is already in this."
Travis: Awesome.
Sam: Something that we can summon?
Marisha: Any way we can find out what it possibly is before we summon it?
Matt: "Unfortunately, I do not have that capability."
Laura: It was buried with--
Sam: I'll take that.
Laura: Oh, that's really smart to give to Scanlan.
Travis: Well, like, you said "not too big" though, right?
Matt: "The confines of the space, at least, as part of the enchantment, seem rather small. A bit larger than you, maybe, but not much more than that."
Travis: Right, right, okay.
Matt: "Here."
Travis: Please.
Marisha: Well, does it change size?
Laura: This is maybe the worst thing that Scanlan's ever held outside of that gun that you had, Percy.
Travis: What are you talking about? Can we take it in the woods, open it up, and if it sucks we kill it, and if not, we've got a new pet.
Marisha: We don't even know how to open it up! Do we know how to open it up?
Travis: Oh, we will find a way.
Laura: It was buried with the Raven Queen's champion, I mean, it could be incredibly dangerous. Or it could be incredibly good, and he trapped it, and they're bad, right?
Liam: The same could be said about your new pajamas.
Laura: They are so beautiful. I do like feathers.
Travis: What do they smell like?
Laura: (sniffs) Like (sniffs) must and mold. And birds, really.
Travis: (laughing) And birds? Eesh.
Matt: "So, is that all you require of me?"
Travis: I require Percy to tell us what the fuck's up with the necklace he's reading about.
Taliesin: Just what he said.
Laura: Yeah, he already told us about it.
Sam: Once we release whatever is inside of it, we can use this necklace as a weapon, to--
Taliesin: It's a cage.
Sam: To trap people.
Marisha: Hang on, okay. Let's think about this. What do we remember from the great Purvan's story?
Laura: Well, let me look at my book?
Marisha: What did he fight?
Sam: I just remember that Purvan's story touched me. Touched me in inappropriate ways.
Travis: (laughing) No, no, no.
Laura: You know what I like about this particular piece of paper is that you made it on cardstock so it's extra special instead of the regular paper.
Matt: It's legendary.
Taliesin: Legendary cardstock.
Marisha: Can we get purple cardstock up in here?
Laura: I'm talking to Matt, bitches. Okay. I forgot what I was going to say-- Oh, my book! My 30-gold book! Does it say anything about what Purvan fought?
Matt: All right! You read through. There were many, many things throughout the war that were fought: entities from the Nine Hells, there was a faction of the Abyss that came in as a third bit of evil in this whole conflict; and while not in alliance against the other forces of chaos, there were many forces of chaos lashing out at what was nearby. So the Champion's-- there was no specific entity that was his chosen, or at least, what you can ascertain to be a specific being of hatred, although it does speak of Purvan, the Champion of the Raven Queen, keeping with him an ally.
Laura: Like Trinket.
Matt: It doesn't say the nature of the ally, it just says the dangerous and respected Galdric.
Laura: (gasps) Galdric.
Taliesin: Well, there are some options here.
Laura: What?
Taliesin: No, that won't work, damn it.
Travis: Well, say it, come on.
Taliesin: Well, I was thinking we could find a safe place, surround it, let it out, and if it's dangerous, take care of it. We could even take it down into the pits beneath the castle so that if it's a magical creature, it would be harmless. Except I don't know if we could actually release it down there. I don't know--
Laura: Yeah, what if it touches the thing, and it--
Sam: There's also magic resistance down there.
Taliesin: Yeah, which means it wouldn't work in the first place.
Marisha: What if he's friendly? I mean, he talks about being an ally.
Taliesin: It might be an ally.
Marisha: Well then, wouldn't we want to save it?
Laura: An ally of Purvan! An ally of Purvan's!
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: Is Purvan a good guy?
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: I thought the Raven Queen was not good!
Taliesin: No, the Raven Queen--
Marisha: She's like-- neutral.
Taliesin: Can I make a roll for this?
Matt: Make a religion check.
Taliesin: Okay, thank you. Nope, nope, it's St. Patty's Day.
Travis: Don't kill anybody.
Laura: Yeah, with these green dice.
Taliesin: Religion or history?
Matt: Religion.
Travis: Religion.
Taliesin: 11.
Matt: 11. The general essence of the Raven Queen she is both loved and feared in equal parts. She does not lord over the afterlife, the underworld, whatever you may call it-- she lords over the moment and the transition of death, which is largely considered neither a good nor evil, just a natural force. It could be accepted either way. Many men fear it, and fear her for that reason, and there are those that instead embrace it as the inevitable. As to the true nature of her intent, no one really knows. It's part of her mystique.
Travis: So, like, even if we let out the glorious Ball-lick or whatever his name is, like, if he's bad, we can't really put him back in, right?
Taliesin: No, we actually can. Actually, we can put him back in.
Travis: What, we touch him with it and he goes back in?
Sam: Correct.
Matt: After a saving throw.
Marisha: Maybe we should save him and release him when he'll be valuable to us?
Taliesin: So would a trap. We could also trap other creatures--
Laura: It's like a Poké Ball! Right? It's like a Pokémon?
Taliesin: Yes, it's exactly like a Poké Ball.
Marisha: Who knows if he'll go back in willingly?
Taliesin: You don't have to go in willingly, that's sort of the point.
Matt: I guess you could technically use it that way, yeah.
Marisha: But wouldn't we rather be friendly with him than him be angry at us the next time we release him?
Taliesin: I'm more excited about the idea of carrying around an empty trap.
Marisha: But we could win both. But we could have a trap and a friend.
Liam: I think Percy is right that we should let it out now because it's a question mark, no matter what. Whatever, it's all theories. We don't know what we're getting into, and better that it pop out now, on its own, and not while we're facing a fucking beholder.
Laura: I think we should do it in the forest outside of Vasselheim.
Taliesin: Or the forest outside of Whitestone.
Sam: Vasselheim? We're here.
Marisha: Why don't we try and do a little bit more research on Galdric first?
Sam: That would be too careful.
Travis: Yeah, come on. Come on.
Sam: Vex! Just open it!
Liam: Percival. Are there any libraries here?
Taliesin: Not really, anymore.
Liam: What about a personal collection in your family?
Taliesin: Didn't they ravage most of our collection?
Matt: Elements have been ravaged. Elements of family history have been destroyed so that there couldn't be large connections, or the end of the bloodline itself being too prominently displayed within the castle itself. There is still a library there, though from your knowledge-- and you've read through most of those books growing up-- a lot of them are loose history books; a lot of them are more encyclopedia-like, general knowledge--
Taliesin: She wasn't a revered deity in this part of the world, we don't have a lot--
Laura: All right, yeah, let's do it. Woods!
Travis: Woods! Woods! Woods!
Taliesin: Woods, or Vasselheim, that's actually not a bad idea to get far away from Whitestone.
Travis: No, because then somebody else'll come along and kill it.
Sam: Plus they don't like magic.
Taliesin: This is sort of our secret, and we should perhaps keep this--
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: Well, we were going to go take a look at--
Marisha: (muffled) What if--
Travis: You got shit in your mouth.
Marisha: We g-- mm, sorry. Little bit of saliva.
Liam: Goodberries?
Marisha: Snacks. We go to those goliath caves, right outside of Whitestone, that were abandoned.
Travis: Stone giant caves?
Marisha: Those!
Travis: Shit. Made me feel like I had to poop for a second, there. Goliath caves, fuck.
Marisha: Sorry! I just remembered you recognized them. They were empty, and abandoned, we could go there.
Travis: Yeah!
Laura: Is that close to your family?
Travis: Nope.
Marisha: No, we saw it on the way into Whitestone.
Taliesin: It's just a couple hours away, correct?
Laura: Oh.
Matt: It's, I'd say roughly three, three and a half hours northwest of here.
Laura: Let's do it!
Matt: Yeah, it's where the forest of the Alabaster Sierras ends and the actual Alabaster Sierra mountain range begins, is where that transitions.
Taliesin: We can take a day and do this.
Laura: All right, sure. Let's do it. All right. What do you think? Good idea? Good idea?
Liam: Sure, yes, yes, yes, Keyleth had a good idea, yes.
Matt: All right. So.
Laura: We're healed, yes?
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: We're healed, right? Did we sleep? Do we need to sleep?
Liam: I thought we rested before we went down under the water, though--
Laura: No, we did, we didn't rest since then.
Liam: I don't remember resting afterwards. And I was there.
Travis: I don't either. I remember I peed on a lake, and then we went under it.
Matt: Yeah, I think you guys decided instead of resting to come to rest here in Whitestone.
Laura: Yeah, we need to sleep, y'all!
Taliesin: Let's take a sleep, and we'll do it in the morning.
Travis: What time is it, about?
Matt: I'd say by now, with as much time as you spent in the temple, from waking up in the morning, it's getting four in the afternoon, five in the afternoon. The sun's starting to come down, so.
Laura: I'm going to cast Cure Wounds on myself.
Sam: Aren't we going to sleep?
Laura: But it's four in the afternoon! There's other things to do today.
Marisha: Like drink?
Laura: Like find out how Gilmore's doing and see Pike.
Marisha: And I should probably scry and check in on Allura, right?
Taliesin: I've got some work to do.
Matt: It's up to you guys. Yeah, and you're starting to push towards the bottom of your ammunition stack anyway, Percy.
Taliesin: I need to, yeah, to do a little-- and I've got a little thing I want to work on.
Matt: Cool. All right, so, who's doing what first?
Taliesin: I'm going to take Vax aside very quickly.
Travis: Let's do that first!
Taliesin: I had a careless moment, and I apologize. And you're the first apology I'm putting forward. I don't know if I would have done anything different, but I hope you know that I would've never forgiven myself.
Liam: What're you talking about?
Taliesin: I rushed in and triggered the trap that almost killed your sister.
Liam: That killed my sister.
Taliesin: I can't say that.
Liam: What do you mean?
Taliesin: I was careless.
Liam: Well, what happened, Percival?
Taliesin: I felt the danger had passed, and I moved too quickly, and opened the casket without thinking. That's all. I just didn't think.
Liam: You just opened it? Just like that?
Taliesin: I was tired, wasn't thinking. Sometimes we move too quickly. But I want you to know that it would've-- I'm very glad that she's alive, because I don't think I could have lived with myself.
Liam: All right. Could you do me a favor?
Taliesin: Yes.
Liam: In the future-- If there is anything that your little heart desires inside of a box-- In the future, could you check with my sister or myself first?
Taliesin: That's the hope, yes. That was more of a lesson than I was hoping for. Thankfully not too much of one.
Liam: Well--
Taliesin: And none of us are beyond mistakes, but... that is a mistake that I am going to be thinking about for a very long time. We are going into dangerous territory, and we all have to think a little bit more. And she especially, I-- I couldn't--
Liam: Well listen, Percy. We are not playing a game.
Taliesin: No.
Liam: And we will all make mistakes, and I wager I will make my fair share. I've little doubt. And Percival, I want to apologize. I'm sorry. But-- And I punch him in his know-it-all fucking mouth.
Matt: Do you attempt to move out of the way, or take it?
Taliesin: Yeah, let's take it.
Matt: All right. (impact sound) Decks you square in the-- for as hefty as a punch it was? Doesn't hurt quite as much as you expected. But it's not the physical pain that hurts, more than the action and the knowledge that there are more repercussions to your rash decision than even you initially anticipated.
Liam: Goodnight, Percival.
Taliesin: Goodnight, Vax.
Sam: It's four in the afternoon! (laughter)
Taliesin: I'm going to work. I'm going into my studio.
Matt: All right, who else wants to do something?
Marisha: Where'd Kima go?
Matt: Kima is actually-- she's begun day-drinking into the night! So yeah, she's currently by herself in one of the few functional taverns in Whitestone. It's fairly empty at the moment, especially at this hour as the sun slowly sets. She's not heavy drinking but she's definitely nursing a tankard and quietly contemplating as she sits at the edge of the bar with her hands around the tankard. She's staring at her reflection as she spins it slowly on the wood. You can hear it (scuffing) on the woodgrain.
Marisha: Anyone else want to go to the--
Laura: I'm going with you, yeah.
Matt: There's like a few other random patrons, but no one catches your eye. No one specifically.
Sam: I'll come, too. Well, actually, wait. Grog, what're you doing?
Travis: Nothing yet.
Sam: I'm with Grog.
Matt: Okay. So the two of you, into the tavern-- she doesn't notice you guys.
Marisha: I go up and put my hand on her shoulder.
Matt: "Keyleth!"
Marisha: Hey! How's it going?
Matt: "Better."
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: I lean up against the bar, next to you guys.
Marisha: Want to check in on Allura?
Matt: "Let's do it."
Marisha: Is there an empty room around here?
Matt: She looks over to the barkeep. You all stare over and the barkeep is currently there like wiping down the bar section. "For how long?"
Laura: For a couple hours.
Marisha: Doesn't need to be that long.
Matt: "Two silver?"
Laura: We saved your life? And the entire town.
Matt: "You are fine to use it as you please for the remainder of the afternoon. Just don't mess it up, please."
Marisha: Sure. We'll try really hard to find better things to do with our time. Okay.
Matt: All right, you make your way up and the place is fairly vacant, there are a couple of rooms that are currently partially-- the doors are ajar and you hear voices in there, and you recognize it's a couple of the refugees that you guys brought over from your keep, currently holed up in this tavern. An inn floor on the second floor. But there are a number of open rooms right now that you could go ahead and step into for use.
Marisha: Just pick one.
Matt: Okay. So. Do you want to go ahead and attempt a Scry ritual?
Marisha: Yes!
Matt: Focusing on...?
Marisha: The flower that I gave her before we left.
Laura: Ooh, good call.
Matt: All right, so. As you all sit down, Kima sitting across from you, arms closed. She looks at you intensely with this really direct glare, waiting for some sort of sign of an answer or information. As you complete the ritual preparation of the scrying, your vision transcends your form, jettisoned through the ceiling and into the clouds. Clouds rush past, you can feel the wind pushing across your face, your hair, and as the clouds part you see, below, you see Westruun. And from Westruun you can see most of the city, as you recall, and a large portion of it currently looks toppled-over and pushed into ruin. There are no longer burning black clouds, but white smoke, long after a fire or some sort of an impact, lazily drifting off some of those ruins. It focuses even closer, and you see very little populace in the streets. Most everyone's either indoors or not visible at the moment. Your vision clicks in once again, and you can see currently some sort of dark room hidden in Westruun. You see, for a brief instant, a flicker of light, and you see Drake Thunderbrand and Allura both gathering a few small books under their arms, silently waiting, quietly. You hear (impact sounds) some heavy footfalls above. They both just stay quiet, stay quiet. Allura stays still for a moment. She looks over at Drake. They both take hands and then (whoosh) convert into that same energy form you saw that jettisoned out of Greyskull Keep, that echoes down a long hallway that you previously didn't see was attached to this room. It leads to a stone spiral staircase that goes upward before these two dual sparks travel through the small crack between where the edge of a trap door and a wooden floor is as the sparks course upward into the now-setting sun. You can see amongst the sparks the mostly collapsed rubble of the Cobalt Reserve, the large library in the center of Westruun. You can see dozens of corpses that have been largely dissolved. You can see what remnants of their bodies have been eaten away by some sort of caustic material, their arms and fingers tightened up as the muscles pull into this horrible, gnarled visage of what once were the living residents of Westruun. You do see, as the spark comes to a stop for a second in its movement, and you hear briefly overhead (wingbeats) and you see rush overhead, wings fully spread, the black dragon that you had briefly encountered in Emon streak upward, roaring loudly, towards Gatshadow, the tall, dark spire mountain just north of Westruun. (whoosh) And as it heads up there, the sparks (electric sound) continue their trek through the streets, and at that point the ritual fades, its vision unable to maintain its focus. Your vision is pulled back up into the clouds and then thrust back into your current position and with a shock you find yourself back in the tavern.
Laura: What did you see? Is she all right?
Marisha: She's alive, her and Drake both are alive.
Matt: "Good. Where are they going?"
Marisha: They're at the Cobalt Reserve, which is in ruins, as well as the rest of Westruun.
Laura: Did you see the dragon?
Marisha: Yes, the black dragon is there. Looks like he's taken up residence in the black spire-- tower. What was it called?
Laura: Gatshadow?
Marisha: That one.
Marisha: Gatshadow. Allura--
Laura: Could you communicate with her when you scry? I don't know how it works.
Marisha: No, I can just look in and see.
Laura: All right.
Marisha: She was grabbing the last few important tomes, remnants left from the Cobalt Library, I mean, Reserve.
Matt: "They staying in Westruun?"
Marisha: It didn't look like it.
Matt: "Where are they going?"
Marisha: I don't know, I didn't see.
Matt: "Did you talk about where you--"
Laura: We left word. And told her we were coming here.
Matt: "Here to Whitestone?"
Laura: Yes. If you wait, she'll be here.
Matt: "Who else is coming?"
Laura: Drake.
Matt: "Drake. Anybody else on the Council coming?"
Sam: We brought some Council members, right? Were any among our--
Matt: You're not there, you're with Grog.
Sam: Oh, that's right, I'm sorry, oh, I'm not there! (laughter)
Sam: So, Grog! Want to play some bocce ball? (laughter)
Marisha: I don't know who all's coming.
Laura: Uriel.
Matt: "Dead? Well, that's great. That's fantastic. What about the rest?"
Marisha: His wife and children are here.
Matt: "Here, okay."
Marisha: As well as Gilmore.
Laura: Gilmore's Glorious Goods.
Matt: "Right, right."
Laura: Wonderful place to buy all sorts of products, if it were still... standing.
Matt: "Huh. I've only heard things, I've not met this 'Gilmore'."
Marisha: You haven't met Gilmore!? Man, I just assume everyone knows each other.
Matt: "Anybody else? Tofor?"
Laura: Yes, maybe...? Yes, Tofor...?
Marisha: He might have... been... slain...?
Laura: Which one is Tofor?
Marisha: She's the dragonborn--
Laura: Yes, Tofor-- they did, I think Tofor is-- definitely maybe here.
Matt: Last you heard, two Council members that were confirmed still alive by Gilmore when you found him-- or, confirmed by Uriel's wife and family-- thank you, sorry, were Tofor and Asum.
Laura: Yes.
Matt: So both were two of the ones that were saved by Gilmore, and then once he was too wounded to continue, they left to seek for survivors in Emon. That was the last you heard of them.
Laura: Oh. They're not actually here, then. Yes. They're looking for other survivors, Tofor and Asum.
Matt: "In the place where this-- and what's this dragon you keep talking about?"
Laura: Oh, shit, you don't know anything. Thordak! Big. Terrible. Red.
Matt: As you say the name again, you can see her eyes resonate with a clarity, and where once was this very intense expression and air of demanding information suddenly recedes into this look of sudden fear, and she's briefly lost in thought.
Laura: Yes, you defeated him once. He escaped the Fire Realm.
Marisha: Not only did he escape, he tore a giant tear in the rifts between the Fire Realm and ours.
Matt: (sighs deeply) "Thordak." And you can see, she's starting to hyperventilate suddenly, like, for all of her strong exterior, this is the first time, aside from the brief hit of the beholder's ray earlier, you see fear in her eyes, and she starts standing up. (pants) "I need to get some air."
Marisha: Kima, Kima, it'll be--
Matt: "I need to--"
Marisha: Sit here, you want to sit down?
Matt: "I need to get s-- I need to get some air." And she storms out of the room.
Marisha: Let's go outside.
Laura: Actually, Keyleth--
Marisha: What?
Laura: I shut the door behind Kima.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: I want to talk to you.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: I would ask my brother, but, knowing him, he would walk away. What happened?
Marisha: Keyleth has a hard time looking her in the eye.
Laura: Look at me, Keyleth! Be strong! You're royalty. Tell me what happened.
Marisha: Vex, I don't want to ever see you like that again. I don't want to ever see anybody like that again.
Laura: I grab both sides of her face and force her to look at me. I'm all right. I'm still here. Okay? I need you to tell me what happened. Because between us? Vax is off. Something's wrong. And I need to know what it is.
Marisha: We all watched you die.
Laura: Yes.
Marisha: It's like--
Laura: How did I get back? Who brought me back? Kashaw, Zahra, my brother. Anyone else?
Marisha: I guess... you could say, probably an unseen entity, an unseen force. Oh, I'm lightheaded.
Laura: Sit down.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: There's a bed. Sit down.
Marisha: Percy--
Laura: Percy helped.
Marisha: Let's skip that. When we brought you back, Kashaw performed a resurrection ritual.
Laura: Like we did with Pike.
Marisha: Yes. And he called upon a deity and at first he was afraid that it was Vesh. Which he was quite terrified about.
Laura: His wife.
Marisha: Yes. That, I don't believe, is the presence that answered his call.
Laura: Okay. Fluttery words here, darling. Get to the point.
Marisha: I thought I was going to lose you both. I thought I was going to lose you and Vax.
Laura: Why Vax? Did he get hurt as well? No. What did he do?
Marisha: He-- I don't know. I don't know what he did. He said to take him instead, is what he told the entity. He offered his life for yours. And my biggest fear was that neither of you were going to come back. He offered his life for you. And for all we know, that offer was accepted.
Laura: Right.
Marisha: If I had to guess, it was probably the Raven Queen herself.
Laura: Well. It's rather suiting, isn't it?
Marisha: He seems to do that quite a lot.
Laura: Yes. Keyleth? Thank you, dear. And I leave.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I stay behind and burst into tears.
Matt: Okay. Grog and Scanlan! What're you guys doing? (relieved laughter)
Liam: (Grog voice) Go fish.
Travis: So-- what do you want to do?
Sam: I don't know. I hadn't really thought about it. Do you have any games with you?
Travis: No.
Sam: Anything in the Bag of Holding?
Travis: I think there's some orc parts in there that've been in for a couple months.
Sam: Doesn't sound very fun.
Travis: Right. I got all nervous when they mentioned a goliath's cave, so I need to go boom-boom.
Sam: Should I play a song so no one can hear it?
Travis: Might help. Like, stand guard outside the door.
Sam: Yeah, yeah. A little muzak.
Travis: Would you mind?
Sam: It's what I'm here for.
Travis: Can I go drop some ordnance?
Matt: And as you find one of the few local ramshackle outhouses-- none are quite goliath-sized, and it's an uncomfortable experience, but thank God you brought a bard along or you would have woken up half the populace just going to bed, as Scanlan, I--
Sam: Nothing to see here, everybody! (plays random chords on the harmonica) Nothing to see here!
Travis: (coughs, then farts) Oh!
Laura: Okay, okay, okay, okay. (laughter)
Travis: Now, the music's playing, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: It's just a stall, just me?
Matt: Yeah, yeah.
Travis: All right, can I take out Craven Edge?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: All right.
Marisha: In the outhouse? Sorry, keep going!
Travis: It's the palace, this is where all the best thoughts and conversations happen! I don't know how it is at your house.
Liam: Keep in mind how confined it is, okay?
Travis: Yeah!
Liam: And go. (laughter)
Matt: Yes. (grunting)
Sam: Sounds like a rough one in there, buddy!
Matt: As you (chuckles) as you see one of the wood boards splinter out the side for a second--
Sam: Ah, yup, that's tacos!
Travis: You might want to play a bit louder and maybe take a few steps away, it's about to get violent.
Sam: No problem!
Travis: Yep.
Matt: At that moment you focus, and as you can feel the blade itself grow cold in your fingertips, you can see what little bit of light that filters through the bright orangish-red color that's coming from the sunset, you can see a reflection in the obsidian blade as a voice comes to your ear and says, "You fed me well."
Travis: Yeah, I did, right? I mean, we are really doing well. Question: so, when we were fighting that big Earthbreaker Groot-looking guy, he called you a 'dark weapon'. Does that-- do you have feelings, and did that hurt them?
Matt: There's a brief pause before you hear this long, drawn-out, (heavy sigh).
Travis: Right, hold on! No, no, listen. And I take my thumb and I run it against the blade real quick.
Matt: Okay. As you do, all of a sudden the voice goes, (gasp, contented exhale).
Travis: Right, yep, sorry, listen. So, my question is, as much as I love opening up people to feed you, I want to know, like-- what's in it for you?
Sam: Grog, are you talking to your shit?
Travis: Yeah, no, you got to let it know who's boss!
Sam: Okay.
Matt: The voice creeps in again, this time. "There is no feeling more terrifying than hunger. And I hunger forever. You help satiate that hunger. That is our arrangement. I give you the strength of those you cut down, and I feed upon them. If this is unsatisfactory, I can and have found others who are more willing to be part of this arrangement--"
Travis: No, no, no, I'm a big fan, really, I mean, I am yoked out when I'm using you, it's fucking amazing. I mean, people are flying apart, it's like a dream. But listen, can you ever be... full?
Matt: "I have never been full before. Perhaps you're the one to find out."
Travis: I'll bet I am, actually, you're really lucky you found me and not these other blokes, not even half the man I am. But listen, so, there's no, like, endgame, just to be clear, you just want to drink and drink, 'cause I've seen the blood, right? And usually I wipe it off, but you, like, suck it in, and that's a little unsettling, not going to lie.
Matt: "My hunger grows, but the air tarnishes my blade. Perhaps we can continue this conversation elsewhere."
Travis: (farts) Right, yeah, right. Not even a problem. Well, look, I like the way you cut people open, so we'll continue this another time. And I sheathe him.
Matt: All right. As you sheathe, the last thing he says is, "Don't forget: I hunger always."
Travis: I kick the door open, and I'm like, if you're within 200 feet, back up!
Sam: No one's out here, Grog.
Travis: Oh.
Sam: Just me. Are you all right?
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: I heard you say something about blood.
Travis: Yeah, no, am I sweating? It was a real workout, that one.
Sam: At some point you said, "Are you full?" Are you talking about-- did you fill it all the way up?
Travis: Yeah, the privy, you know, it was starting to give my bum a tickle.
Sam: Wow!
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: You topped it off!
Travis: Yeah. Because, you know, you don't want to, like, dip in the muck, it's, you know--
Laura: Foul.
Sam: Not at all.
Travis: Did you want to--
Sam: I think I'm good.
Travis: Are you sure? I warmed it up for you, it's, like, ready to go.
Sam: I love a good deuce, but not today, I think.
Travis: All right. Fair enough. But I'm feeling so, like, vacated--
Sam: We should go get a bite.
Travis: I think you're right!
Sam: (laughs) All right, let's go.
Travis: (laughing) Okay.
Matt: Okay. You guys are getting a bite. Percival, if you want to go ahead and make a tinkering check with dexterity modifier to create more ammunition.
Taliesin: Tinkering check with dexterity modifier?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: Should be plus 11.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: 16, okay. We'll say, in the time that you've had here, with the materials you purchased, and Whitestone's pretty open to supplying you--
Taliesin: I've got a thing.
Matt: Yeah, I'd say you're able to create roughly 40 or so simple bullets in the time that you have.
Taliesin: Do I have time to poke at a modification to the explosive arrow? I want to try and build a rock breaker. I'm curious to try and build an arrow for taking down walls or taking down doors.
Matt: Like a siege arrow?
Taliesin: A light form of siege arrow. Basically, I want to have a tip that actually manages to breach stone and then an explosion that goes outwards, so it's a shattering arrow.
Matt: All right, this'll take the remainder of your evening. You're not going to be able to do much else after this.
Taliesin: I have nothing else to do.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and make a tinkering check with your intelligence modifier.
Taliesin: Okay. So... That's 23.
Matt: 23, okay. At the cost of roughly 150 gold pieces, as you have to go through a few different attempts to finally get the design right, and the metalworking you have here is not perfected. You're not at your workshop back at the keep, unfortunately, so you have to work with whatever you have here, and nothing here is designed for the--
Taliesin: No, I've got an okay workshop here.
Matt: Yeah. The one that you used before, previously, but that's from mostly discarded and-- in the time that you've been gone, it's been cannibalized for a lot of different uses. But it's makeshift. You manage to complete what you think could function. You're not entirely certain as to what the final effect will be, but it all seems to be in place.
Taliesin: All right.
Matt: So you can write down 'Explosive Siege Arrow'.
Taliesin: Siege arrow.
Matt: And we shall find out in time what it does.
Marisha: Siege arrow. That's fun.
Taliesin: A few things I've been working on, and that's one of them.
Matt: So. Are you guys resting for the evening? Anything else you wish to accomplish?
Laura: That would probably be smart. I'm pretty tired after dying, so I'm going to go to sleep.
Matt: Okay. Vax, anything you want to accomplish before you--
Taliesin: God, the guilt. Okay. Yeah.
Sam: Can I buy a torch somewhere? Just a torch?
Matt: Sure! Yeah, torches are relatively easy to find. You want to try one?
Sam: Three.
Matt: Three torches. That's three copper.
Laura: I bring Trinket into the castle with me, just so you know.
Matt: After all this has happened, Trinket has been, like, almost locked to you. Even you going upstairs into the tavern, Trinket was like, (plaintive bear noises) stayed out front, 'cause Trinket's learned at this point, you can't really go into all the taverns.
Laura: It's hard, it's hard.
Matt: It's rough, being a bear.
Sam: And wherever we're eating, does it happen to be near Jameson the painter's workshop?
Matt: No, but it's about a 20-minute walk, if you wanted to go find him.
Sam: Be nice to check in with him. Grog, do you mind walking with me?
Travis: Absolutely not.
Sam: All right, so we'll truck on over to Jameson's.
Matt: Okay. You head up to it, and this gentleman is a painter as well as a stablehand, so you find your way to the facility, knock on it, and immediately as the door opens, the smell of fresh manure hits your nose and Jameson steps out. "Can I-- you!"
Sam: Yes! Hi!
Matt: "Hi!"
Sam: I've come back.
Matt: "I meant to deliver, but they told me not to, because apparently it's not there anymore?"
Sam: The town, you mean.
Matt: "Town, yeah, where I was supposed to deliver it to you."
Sam: It was wise of you to keep this precious artifact here, because it would've surely been destroyed en route or when it arrived--
Matt: "It's just the canvas, I don't have a-- It's a bit too large for my specifications of framing, but--"
Sam: I'm sure it's huge. Did you finish it?
Matt: "Yes, yes! Come, come!"
Sam: Can I look?
Travis: Oh please, oh please!
Sam: (laughing) Okay, let's go look!
Matt: He takes one of the hooded lanterns and turns up the oil wick on it, and as he turns away he brings you into the back stable area where it's been sectioned off, and you can see there's paints that have been dropped all across the ground and the hay, it's this multicolored spattering, this rainbow vomit across this section of hay floor, and there in all of its glory, stretched across and nailed at the corners to this far, far wall, you see a fantastical landscape of rolling hills and treelines rising up at the edges. You can see a mountainscape in the distance. The lighting he uses is magnificent. You can see why many people in the city specifically requested that you go to this gentleman. There atop this fantastic green hilltop, you see on this fine white and grey steed as it raises up, hooves in the air, is yourself, shirt open, chest slightly fuzzy and muscular. As you look off, your hair blowing in the breeze--
Sam: How's the face? How's the face?
Matt: The face is pretty damn spot-on.
Sam: Yes! (laughter)
Matt: The best likeness you can find for somebody who only had a brief reference, as he sketched you quickly before he left, and there behind, clutching you, from the side you can see Pike wearing these long greyish-silver and blue robes that are also flowing behind, a long train-- longer than it needs to be, stylistically it was a choice in the artistics point of this-- it is everything you hoped it would be. You paid good money for this piece.
Sam: I'm going to request-- Grog, I need a minute here.
Travis: Oh, yeah. I understand, take--
Sam: Just to weep.
Travis: Take all the time you need.
Sam: So I regard it for a few minutes, taking in the beauty and the wonder of all I've accomplished--
Marisha: I have a question. Would Keyleth and Scanlan be crying in rooms at the same time?
Matt: Right now? Yes. For different reasons entirely.
Sam: (singing) Somewhere out there...
Taliesin: (singing) Somewhere out there...
Travis: Look at the air, look at the air high-five. There it is.
Sam: (singing) Beneath the pale moonlight
Taliesin: (singing) Beneath the pale moonlight
Marisha: (singing) Beneath the pale moonlight
Travis: So white. That was the whitest of white high fives ever.
Taliesin: I'm imagining this as a canvas of Lisa Frank majesty, by the way. Like, the greatest Lisa Frank Trapper Keeper cover in all the land.
Matt: Oh, man. (laughter)
Sam: After I weep for a few minutes, I thank Jameson again and how much did I pay him for this thing? You've gone above and beyond, Jameson, and I know that you're a humble man and you don't want me to spread word of your accomplishments, but please allow me to write you an epic poem or a song and tell of your artistic gifts and talents, please.
Matt: "That would be a fine tip, sir. Please, yes, do so."
Sam: I'll get right on it.
Matt: "Send them back to Whitestone, please, ask for Jameson. The more I work this, hopefully I can make my way out of this dunghole."
Sam: Don't worry, you'll have lots of commissions after this, I promise you.
Matt: "Great."
Sam: And I'm going to give him an extra 50 gold.
Matt: "I, um--"
Liam: That's more than the price of a book.
Matt: "Sir, I-- thank you. Thank you, thank you."
Sam: For art supplies to get your shop up and running.
Matt: "Of course." He looks down and he's gotten a little bit of paint on the coins, he's like, (muttering and stammering). He puts it aside somewhere. "Thank you--" Wipes his hands off on a nearby rag. "Thank you." And takes your hand and shakes it vigorously.
Sam: So, can it be--
Matt: Yeah, he goes in and he takes his little claw hammer down, starts pulling the nails out from the sides and gingerly rolls up the canvas. It takes a good, like, three minutes to roll the thing up, and it's quite heavy as he hands it over to you-- (heavy grunt) In your hand, yeah, it almost takes you off your feet.
Sam: Grog! Grog!
Travis: What?
Sam: Can you hold this for me?
Travis: No, it's you, I mean, you're so magnificent in it--
Sam: No, I can't do it.
Travis: I don't know it-- I really--
Sam: Grog! I watched you shit for an hour!
Travis: Hey, all right, I'll pick it up.
Matt: All right. You guys find your way out. At this point night has taken; you can hear the crickets starting to spread throughout the city. As the rest of the blue night sky takes on-- Evening is ready, do you guys have anything else to accomplish before the evening comes to a close?
Liam: Wait 'til it's quiet. And I leave the room that I've been given at Whitestone. And I find my sister's door. And I stand outside it, and I stare at it for a minute--
Laura: Vax? Is that you?
Liam: And I stealth away.
Laura: I open the door.
Matt: Roll a stealth check, roll a perception check.
Laura: Shit.
Liam: 25.
Laura: 22. Damn it.
Matt: Nothing to be seen. Must have been your imagination, Vex.
Travis: He's good.
Liam: And I wait for the door to close. And then I walk to Keyleth's door. And I knock.
Matt: You hear a knock at your door.
Laura: And horses.
Matt: The clomping of horse hooves in the distance, apparently.
Marisha: I open it. Hey. Hi. You okay?
Liam: I don't know.
Marisha: Come in. Sit down.
Liam: I go in.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: How do you feel?
Liam: I don't know. All I know is... that I felt her. I don't know magic, I don't know anything. I open doors, and only when the wind is blowing in the right direction, sometimes, I think. I don't know what happened, but I felt her.
Marisha: Do you still feel her?
Matt: Make a perception check, Vax.
Liam: 22.
Matt: As you're sitting there, looking down at the ground, as she asks this question, you notice the symbol of Sarenrae that you have stitched into the back of your glove, what was once a very vibrant, goldish-brass color has actually very heavily tarnished, and the metal itself seems to have cracked in three places. It was not this way a day before.
Liam: Yeah. I don't know if I did anything in there, and I wouldn't take it back if I did, but I don't know what I'm doing.
Marisha: I don't know if it was very noble or very stupid, to be honest. Probably a little bit of both. I can attempt a Greater Restoration spell, and see if I can sense anything.
Liam: I don't know anything about any of that. I'll let you.
Marisha: Can I?
Matt: Yeah. So as you prepare your mindset for the cleansing ritual that is the Greater Restoration--
Marisha: Just lay back.
Matt: As soon as the dull green energy begins to course across your fingertips, and as you touch the edge of his shoulder to impart his body with the cleansing energy, it courses through his shoulders, the spell completes. You sense no difference in your current physicality, mindset, and there's this pause, this silence, of no realization, that is suddenly shattered by the sound of a (caws). You look over and at the stone edge of the window you guys are staying in, you see stepping there a single dark raven, (clicks, rapid flapping) and it takes off and flies into the night.
Marisha: I think this goes beyond any natural realm that I have any bearing over. And I hug him. I thought I was going to lose you. And I'm terrified I'm still going to.
Liam: Keyleth, I love you.
Marisha: And I think I love you. I just don't know if I can allow myself to. I'm terrified to allow myself to. You do realize that, if by some crazy chance, we all somehow make it through this domination alive, with the Chroma Conclave, and I complete my Aramente, I'll still watch all of you die. Everything could go phenomenally well. And by becoming Headmaster, we enter a bit of a realm of immortality where I could live for a very, very long time. I'm afraid every time I look at one of your faces that it's going to be the last, and I feel like deep down I know that day is coming. So because of that I'm afraid to let myself feel anything deeper than I already do.
Liam: I quickly leave her room.
Matt: The door closes behind Vax.
Marisha: And for the second time today Keyleth bursts into tears. Why do people keep leaving me in rooms alone?
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Stop it, you're wasting water.
Marisha: We're in a drought, god damn it!
Laura: When was the last time you showered, Keyleth?
Marisha: It's been a while.
Taliesin: Makeup's runny.
Liam: Go water elemental.
Matt: It's the only way. All right, as you all find yourself coming to rest for the evening, some of you easier than others, eventually you get your full rest. Those who heal up to, say, full hit points for a good night's rest here, get your hit dice back, so not a whole lot were spent.
Travis: I lose my strength bonuses.
Matt: Morning comes to you all, and-- yes?
Liam: Sorry, just one detail. From there, I went and fell asleep in this idiot's doorway.
Matt: Okay. All right. We will go ahead and take a quick break, we will see you guys back here shortly to see what is in store for Vox Machina. So we'll be back here in a minute. [break]
Liam: Matt, shit on my face.
Matt: Welcome back, everybody!
Sam: It's too close!
Laura: They caught it, that one caught it.
Matt: That was pretty close.
Liam: All they heard was "ace."
Matt: It's all good. Welcome back, guys. We're going to go ahead and jump back in. So as you all, after that, for some, emotional evening, whether that be conversational emotion or, you know, having to go drop an emotional deuce. You know, that's important. You find yourselves waking up to a fresh morning in Whitestone, hints of blue sky breaking through the cloud coverage, and that's rare for this area because it's the northern portion of the continent, you know that, especially being so close to the ocean, a lot of the cloud, heavy precipitation makes its way in the direction of your town, so it's nice to have a little break in that. Nonetheless, as you guys come to consciousness and gather yourselves, your things, and your plans for the day, what do you wish to do?
Taliesin: We are a city of seasonal affectation disorder, so.
Laura: Well, I open my door and find my brother falling through it.
Liam: I'm awake.
Laura: Oh, good morning.
Liam: Hi.
Laura: Comfortable bed, I see.
Liam: Yeah. Sorry, I couldn't find my room.
Laura: Yeah, it's confusing, all these, all these doors.
Liam: What time's it?
Laura: I have no idea. My nature check tells me it's roughly, I dunno, eight? Nine? Something like that. Seven? Maybe seven.
Liam: Come here, you shithead. Don't fucking do that again.
Laura: It's not like I did it on--
Liam: Don't fucking do that again, all right? Just don't fucking do it again.
Laura: All right.
Liam: Fuck.
Laura: I can't breathe. You're about to kill me again.
Liam: You'll live, you'll live. Jesus. Whoever that is.
Laura: So-- (laughs) I heard a rumor that you sort of saved my life in a really creepy sort of way. I talk to people. I talk to so many people. I find out things. Secrets aren't safe when Vex is around.
Liam: Is there any coffee in this fucking castle?
Laura: Wait, wait, wait, I have a present for you, because I feel like you're going to really like it. Would you like it?
Liam: That's random. All right.
Laura: I have this armor that I think would be really great on you. Do you want it? It's really expensive. If you don't take it quickly, I might change my mi--
Liam: I don't want it.
Laura: Oh, that was expensive cardstock. (laughter)
Liam: I'll give you the leather armor after I have a chance to change.
Laura: All right. I love you.
Liam: (softly) I know. I know.
Laura: Let's get breakfast.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: From that point, the smell of coffee begins to fill the air from the inside of the Whitestone castle halls. The servants have prepared breakfast, and a meal is ready for you. Grog jumping to attention as the scent reaches your nose. The rest of you all slowly find your way back down. You eat--
Marisha: Do we come out and see Vax in the armor?
Matt: Are you putting on the armor?
Liam: I'm just looking at it in the hallway.
Marisha: So I guess I step out and see him looking at it in the hallway.
Liam: Still pretty tired, to be honest. Didn't sleep a lot in the doorway.
Matt: Yeah. Some of you guys step out, and you see Vax standing in the hallway, clutching in his hands, looking over all the various, like, pushed-in, engraved runes across the leatherwork, the raven feathers that adorn the bottom of the mantle.
Laura: Careful, it smells a lot like must and mold and birds.
Marisha: I walk by and... briefly lock eyes and keep going without saying anything.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Oh shit, you got the armor now?
Laura: He stole it, what can I say? He is a really sneaky, stealthy kind of guy.
Travis: Nice.
Laura: Yeah. Fair and square.
Liam: I just took it for fashion purposes, I suppose.
Travis: Oh, you need all the help you can get.
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: Should we go out in the woods and unleash an undead beast that will kill us all?
Travis: Yes! Christmas morning! Who has that, by the way?
Sam: I do.
Travis: Oh! Yeah!
Sam: Don't worry, it's safe.
Travis: Where d'you keep it?
Sam: Oh! Hold on-- Got a pouch or some-- you know what? It's back in my room.
Matt: All right. You go retrieve it.
Sam: Got it!
Travis: Where's Percy?
Laura: Where's Pike? We should bring her with us. Can we bring Pike with us? I know she's taking care of Gilmore, but.
Sam: Mm, that's possibly more important. I think this thing'll be fine!
Laura: We need some sort of somebody that can heal, I think we've learned this for ourselves.
Sam: I can heal!
Travis: Yeah, we got potions, we're fine. It's probably, like, a big Saint Bernard. What's the big deal?
Laura: (sighs) Okay. We learn nothing, carry on.
Travis: Where's Percy?
Taliesin: I'm right here.
Travis: Oh! Shit, you were quiet. Hello.
Taliesin: (coughs) Hello. Good morning.
Travis: Need any coffee? An enema?
Taliesin: What?
Marisha: A coffee enema?
Taliesin: What!? No. I'm fine. Good morning.
Liam: I'm going to walk off with this shit.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: And we go outside with the necklace.
Sam: Yeah, where're we headed?
Travis: The woods!
Laura: No. The caves. I thought we were going to the--
Marisha: Going to the caves on the edge of the woods.
Matt: Yeah. It's the caves that are--
Marisha: Going to go through the woods.
Liam: (sings) Into the woods!
Matt: So. You all gather together and make your way northwest of Whitestone, towards where you found the stone giant fortress and the series of caves that are in the mountain behind it. You get there; it's still seemingly abandoned. You case the area for a while. No noticeable movement other than a few woodland entities that exist in that vicinity.
Laura: Primeval Awareness! (radar sounds)
Matt: Okay. That is now the sound it makes every time you do it.
Laura: I like it.
Matt: Yeah, so hold onto that one. I'll make that a new ringtone sound for you guys. What are you looking for?
Laura: Oh, there's so many things I could sense!
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: What about sirens?
Laura: Sirens?
Travis: Wait, what are those things called? The things that took our horses the last time we were here?
Matt: Harpies?
Travis: Yeah, yeah, whatever.
Laura: Sure! Harpies.
Matt: For how many miles is it?
Laura: Six miles!
Matt: Six miles? Yeah, there's a few blips on the far, far western side of here. You get the essence way off in the mountains, there's maybe a small nest. Nothing that's immediately dangerous.
Laura: What about if I sit for one more minute and I think if I can sense any giants.
Matt: You do, to the far, far north. You get the sense that there is some sort of giant-based lifeform maybe two, three miles north of you.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: How's it look?
Laura: Well, I mean, clear of the things I checked for. No giants.
Travis: Sweet! Let's go! Up to the cave!
Matt: All right. So the fortress or the caves behind it?
Travis: Fortress or cave?
Laura: Were they both empty? I don't remember.
Taliesin: Everything was empty, if I recall.
Travis: Yeah. Small space.
Taliesin: Let's do the caves.
Laura: All right, sure. Cave.
Travis: Yeah. Cave.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Oh, if we stick to the woods, it's my favored terrain. If we go into a cave, not as much.
Sam: The caves would contain it. It can't fly away or anything.
Travis: So is it like, cave-fortress, are they same level? I can't remember.
Matt: It's a pathway that leads up into a small ravine in the mountain pass where you guys originally walked down into Whitestone. Up against the north side of where the mountain meets that ravine, there's a big stone fortress that is built into the side of the mountain, and then around that are a series of smaller caves.
Liam: (singing) Anything can happen in the woods.
Travis: Yeah, let's go to this fortress, then we got more room to move in case it does suck.
Sam: All right, fine, fortress.
Matt: You guys find your way inside, the cold morning air still has encompassed the stone floor itself, you can see there are still the scattered and slowly decomposing bits of meat and flesh in the far corner, you still see the splatters of blood that have turned black and cracked as it dried. No corpses here, as the corpses were retooled by the Briarwoods while they were in control. The fortress other than that is still empty, and seemingly untouched since you last left it.
Sam: All right, well, I'm just going to do it then!
Laura: Wait wait wait!
Marisha: Wait wait wait!
Marisha: Wait, there's doors open to the cave, right?
Sam: We're in a fortress.
Taliesin: We're in a fortress.
Marisha: Fortress. Whatever.
Matt: (laughs) Coffee's just starting to kick in for you guys.
Laura: Just barely! Do we have any buff spells or some shit that we should cast, to make us cooler?
Marisha: Should I throw a wall up?
Sam: A wall for what?
Marisha: Do I need to bar the entrance? Or are there doors?
Taliesin: Vex, by the way--
Matt: There are doors, but they're partially ajar where you left them.
Laura: Aww, put it on, it's useful!
Liam: No. We're not having this conversation.
Taliesin: Vex, by the way, I've got something for you.
Laura: What? Yes, dear?
Taliesin: And I pull out the arrow.
Laura: What is this?
Taliesin: This is an evening of unbridled guilt. Come here, let me show you. In theory, this is a siege arrow.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: Shattering stone, shattering doors, breaking things that should not be broken.
Laura: Breaking hearts left and right?
Taliesin: If that is what you're after. It should work! Never forget you're my favorite, and I'm so sorry.
Laura: I kiss him on the cheek. Thank you, Percy.
Taliesin: That was much nicer than your brother.
Laura: Is that a black eye?
Taliesin: (stammering) I didn't sleep.
Laura: Huh. This is lovely, I can't wait to use it.
Taliesin: There'll be more.
Sam: All right, in three, two--
Travis: Wait hold on, hold on hold on!
Taliesin: In a circle! Aim it into the center of the circle.
Liam: And is it three-two-one, three-two-one-do it, or three-two-one and go,
Sam: On the one. On one.
Taliesin: It's Jenga, one one-thousand two one-thousand three one-thousand four one-thousand.
Sam: Should one of us leave the room in case it comes out and paralyzes all of us? Just going to throw that out there.
Travis: Oh yeah, we should, what do you call it, spread out?
Laura: Yeah, definitely, let's all surround it and make sure we're not all clumped up.
Taliesin: If only someone had armor that could make them immune to paralysis.
Liam: That's not a bad idea, you get controlled by things. Maybe you could wait just a little bit further back?
Laura: This was somebody's pet, all right? It's probably not smart enough to take control of our minds.
Liam: That's a big if.
Travis: I don't mind stepping out, but I would like to be able to see.
Laura: Yeah yeah yeah!
Liam: Yeah! We won't shut the door, I just want you outside of any potential blast radius.
Taliesin: Let's spread out in a circle; we'll let it loose in the center, that way it can't even see all of us.
Laura: All right, I like it. It only gets to see Scanlan.
Sam: It can see me.
Laura: I'm going to stealth.
Sam: Well, when a thing is born, it latches on to the first thing it sees, like its mama.
Liam: Yes, we're going to hide.
Matt: All right, stealth check from both of you guys?
Marisha: So we're going to try and talk to it?
Laura: Yeah, Scanlan's going to talk to it.
Marisha: Scanlan? You prepared?
Laura: Natural 20!
Taliesin: You just teleport, there's like a phase effect.
Matt: The two of you back off and find the nearby shaded corners, where some of the haphazardly tossed hides and furs are in the corner, you vanish behind the alcoves keeping a watch.
Laura: Trinket, don't stand next to me, it gives it away. Go stand next to Keyleth!
Travis: Is there a doorway in the fortress?
Matt: Yeah, there's the main doorway you guys entered, which is two--
Travis: Can I stand in that, then?
Matt: Sure, you stand there, in the entranceway that's pushed open, which is wide enough for a giant to push through. You got a little bit of room to each side, but you're there.
Travis: Vax, is this g-- Vax?
Taliesin: It's fine, you're fine.
Sam: Here we go, guys.
Marisha: So, those two are stealthed-- I'm at Scanlan's left shoulder, back a bit.
Laura: And Trinket's next to you!
Marisha: And Trinket's next to me. I'm rolling with Trinket.
Taliesin: I've got a little bit of distance, yes, that's good.
Matt: All righty, and there's Percy here, and Travis is off this way. Good to know.
Sam: I don't know how to use this thing.
Marisha: Yeah, we don't know how to use it.
Sam: By the power of Raven's Slumber, I command thee: (yells) awaken! Beast! Cruel or otherwise! Face your new master, and know his name is Scanlan! (laughter)
Travis: (laughing) Oh, holy shit! Never could've been better.
Matt: As you spend your bonus action to release the gate hold on the crystal, you guys see as he thrusts his hands forward, there's a burst of shadow energy that, almost like someone throwing a big pot of water, this blackness goes out of it, and then as it hits the ground, it spills into smoke on the ground, and as that dark form stops, it is in the form of an about waist-to-lower-torso-height creature. As the form coalesces into its normal self, you can see before you, shaking its head, a rather large, dark grey and black wolf. (growls, snarls)
Sam: Easy, easy.
Travis: Told you it was a dog.
Sam: Garlic? Galdric, Galdric, easy, Galdric. Easy. We're friends. Here.
Matt: He's backing up a little bit, snarling. You see Trinket starts growling, (growls).
Laura: Trinket, be nice-- oh!
Matt: As you say that (snarls) it looks over at you in the far corner.
Laura: (whispers) I'm natural 20! That still didn't see me!
Marisha: I pet Trinket, like, 'Chill, chill, be cool'.
Matt: Trinket backs up a little bit, but still locking eyes. You can see this wolf now, its gums and teeth are bared, its fur is all puffed up, its tail is-- it's definitely holding its ground and trying to make itself look as intimidating as possible.
Sam: Is it a small beast?
Matt: This would be, technically, borderline medium. This'd be medium, technically.
Sam: I can only speak with small beasts.
Marisha: Wait, use Speak with Animals?
Liam: (laughs) She swatted me and said, 'Put your armor on,' so I'm doing it.
Matt: Okay. That'll take you about 15 minutes.
Laura: Aw.
Liam: 15 minutes! Well, guess I'm doing it.
Matt: All right. You don't just slip on leather armor. (chuckles)
Liam: No, I get that, I get that, I would've guessed two minutes.
Travis: Can somebody check to see if it's actually a wolf or just looks like one? Like, check it?
Laura: Can I use my perception?
Matt: You're a bit far away from it right now. You can try to get closer if you want.
Laura: Can I sneak?
Matt: Yeah, make another stealth check.
Laura: I do get advantage, because of my cloak. Sweet.
Liam: You should yell out, 'I'm stealthing'.
Laura: I'm stealthing! Damn it. 19?
Matt: Okay. As you begin making your way forward, it doesn't seem to notice you.
Laura: Hey, it doesn't?
Matt: No.
Laura: Can I see it better now to perceive it?
Matt: Looking right at it, and from your experience in the wild as well, and Keyleth, you're getting it, this does not appear to be anything beyond a large wolf.
Taliesin: I'm going to get on my knees and put out my hand and call it. Galdric, Galdric.
Matt: Go ahead and make an animal handling check.
Sam: Animal handling! We've never done that before!
Laura: If I help my brother get on the armor, will it happen faster?
Matt: Probably.
Laura: I help him put on the armor.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: (whispering) Ow ow ow! That's too tight!
Laura: Well, you're not the same size as the other guy!
Taliesin: Yeah, it's a little bit better. Ten.
Matt: Ten. As you put out your hand, Galdric snarls, and as you say, "Here, boy." (growls and snaps) It lashes out at your hand. That is going to be-- That's a 21 to hit?
Taliesin: I'll take it.
Travis: Keyleth, can't you talk to, like, plants and shit?
Matt: You take six points of piercing damage as its jaws clench down on your hand, and you tear your hand away. You can feel the warmth flowing under the glove.
Taliesin: Gently, I'm gentle with it.
Marisha: I cast Speak with Animals.
Liam: I click my Boots of Haste!
Matt: You do?
Sam: Aren't you getting dressed?
Laura: He can dress faster!
Travis: Speed change.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Quick change.
Sam: Seven-and-a-half minutes! (laughter)
Matt: You guys all become immediately aware of the creaking of leather in the distance as the two siblings are in the process of fast-changing one of the other.
Laura: The rustle of feathers.
Marisha: Okay, I cast Speak with Animals. And I crouch down to the ground. And bow down a little bit, and I say: are you the one they call Galdric?
Matt: Looks over at you for a second. The growl stops, and its posture changes a little bit. It raises its nose. (sniffs)
Marisha: Was Purvan your master?
Matt: Looking at you as you guys hear Keyleth making this series of growling sounds.
Laura: Trinket totally understands you, no?
Matt: Strangely enough, Trinket does, Trinket's like, (confused bear noise).
Taliesin: Trinket is Scooby-Doo, apparently.
Travis: Shitballs! Taint! You going that way?
Marisha: Oh my god, I get a secret!
Sam: There are several items that are sold out at the store! If you'd like to go on and see what items have already sold out, check it out. (laughs)
Laura: We need to get more t-shirts in stock.
Sam: Yeah, we know that. We know that, guys. We know.
Laura: That needs to happen. But there is still the Critical Role logo t-shirt available. What is happening? What is he--
Sam: Is there a ring or something?
Laura: Is the ring still available?
Sam: I don't know.
Laura: If the ring is still available, check out our ring!
Marisha: I can respond back, right? Your master died a great champion for the Raven Queen. He has been paid a great honor, and now the Raven Queen has chosen a new master.
Laura: I push Vax forward.
Matt: You've gotten maybe part of the tunic on. (laughter)
Sam: Is he Donald-Duck-ing it right now?
Matt: Practically. There are undergarments, but not much. It's, like, bare legs and knees, part of an arm. Yeah, he got thrust out of the changing room about 20 seconds into it.
Sam: Nice.
Liam: I still walk toward the wolf.
Taliesin: Waddle.
Liam: No no no, I did the top, I did the top, c'mon!
Matt: The wolf turns his head a little bit curiously.
Marisha: I continue to speak to the wolf.
Liam: And I kneel. And bow my head.
Marisha: A great darkness has fallen upon our lands. Upon Othanzia. We could use all of the assistance that we can achieve. Would you be willing to find a new purpose? Join Vax'ildan--
Liam: Keyleth?
Marisha: Yes?
Liam: Tell him to come forward and look into my eyes.
Laura: (whispers) That's a bad idea for dogs.
Liam: Tell him.
Laura: (whispers) It's gonna bite your face off.
Marisha: Galdric. Please. Approach your new master and look into his eyes.
Laura: Give him some chocolate, man!
Matt: The wolf looks towards you, looks towards the loosely half-dressed half-elf.
Marisha: Look into his eyes. I said look into his eyes. And see the touch of the Raven Queen inside of him.
Matt: Wolf slowly stalks towards you across the stone floor. You can hear the claws of the wolf clattering against the stonework. As you can see it's partially, like, digging into the stonework with each step. It has purpose with each stride.
Liam: As it's coming, I'm taking daggers out and throwing 'em on the ground.
Matt: The wolf stops and looks up at you. Turns around and walks towards the doorway where you are.
Sam: Where who is?
Matt: Where Grog is. Grog, who's now at the door, at the exit.
Laura: (whispers) What's his name?
Taliesin: Galdric.
Marisha: Galdric.
Marisha: Galdric!
Matt: Keeps walking.
Laura: Galdric!
Sam: Going to stop him, Grog?
Travis: Well, I'm in the doorway.
Marisha: Grog, don't move. Don't move. Look at the dog. Don't move, and don't hurt the dog. Please just look at the dog.
Laura: I pull out one of my treats I have for Trinket.
Matt: Okay. Trinket starts lumbering up towards you (thudding).
Laura: Wait, wait, Trinket-- This is for your buddy Galdric. Galdric!
Matt: Just keeps walking, doesn't even look at you in the face, walks--
Laura: I throw the treat and say, hey!
Matt: It scatters across the stone. Walks between your legs and exits out.
Travis: I pivot on my back foot. I take out Craven Edge--
Taliesin: No!
Travis: No, I do, I take out Craven Edge and I sink it into the earth right beside his head. And I say, (shouts) heel!
Matt: Make an animal handling check.
Laura: Whoa, is it good, is it good?
Travis: 20.
Matt: As the sword (crack) into the rock outside of this fortress, it probably embeds itself a good foot and a half into the mountain. You guys all hear Grog's shout echo through the inside of the fortress itself, causing little bits of dust and small pebbles to dislodge from the roof, slowly fall down. The wolf has stopped and spun in its place and reached out and lashed the blade with its jaws and (cling) as it releases it.
Travis: Stay.
Matt: He sits.
Travis: That went well! (laughter)
Sam: Dog whisperer!
Travis: Good pup.
Sam: Are you its master now?
Travis: No, no, I don't think it has a master. This is a very powerful beast. But it needs a firm hand. And I think it needs a job. So. What do we plan to do with Galdric? Said his name right?
Sam: Yeah.
Laura: We plan on having him help us kill some dragons?
Taliesin: I think he's a wolf. I think perhaps something a little less ambitious.
Laura: Trinket hides very well when dragons are around.
Taliesin: I think, perhaps, joining the Whitestone conclave might be a-- Having him guard Whitestone, perhaps.
Laura: Good, yeah! I like it!
Travis: I reach into the Bag of Holding and I pull out one thing of dry food rations, and a probably pretty rotten chunk of dark elf brain.
Liam: Where did we get that?
Travis: Oh, there's a veritable Walmart of shit in this bag. (laughter)
Travis: And I, like a hamburger patty, smash it all together.
Matt: The only reason you even know this was at one point dark elf brain matter is because that's what you willed to reach in and find. It does not at all visually match your memory of its--
Travis: Does it have a little bit of a viscous-y ooze, mostly?
Matt: Oh yeah, no, it's--
Travis: It'll soften up the dry food.
Liam: Gray Chicken McNuggets.
Matt: It'll soften up a lot of things. It's pretty terrifying.
Laura: It'll make the wolf vomit.
Travis: So I throw that on the ground, and I pour a little ale on top of it. (laughter)
Sam: Wolves love getting drunk.
Matt: Very good. It leans forward and smells it.
Travis: Yeah, no, it wasn't the best, I can do better. Okay.
Laura: Trinket goes up and starts eating it.
Travis: He's going to barf that all over the carpet later.
Liam: Forget the chocolate.
Travis: I need to carry beef in this bitch.
Taliesin: It goes bad.
Liam: We have Dork! We've got nothing of Dork left?
Laura: Oh, you know what I have, by the way? I still have, like, a cooler Bag of Holding. That we got from the Slayer's Take.
Travis: Oh! That's really good to know.
Travis: I pour into a little chalice some ale.
Laura: Like, it keeps things cold. Yeah, it's like a little bitty one, but it keeps parts from going bad.
Matt: It's nowhere near as large as a Bag of Holding, but it has a slow stasis for organic goods.
Sam: We should keep some food on hand next time!
Laura: Totally!
Travis: I offer him some ale, just to see if he even likes it. Some dogs like beer, some others don't.
Matt: Mm. Wolf doesn't seem to be interested.
Travis: Yeah, all right. Then I chug it.
Sam: So are we telling this wolf something or commanding it to come with us as we return to town?
Taliesin: I think he would be helpful to guard the town, at this point.
Laura: Well, he'll follow Grog, I suppose.
Sam: Let's go back to town and bring him with us.
Travis: All right.
Matt: You guys return to Whitestone. It's another, like, three-hour trek to find your way back down to the city. Stalks up next to you. Definitely seems to be attentive to your commands. Doesn't appear to be a bond per se, but of everyone that it's encountered so far, you're the only one that really gathered its respect.
Laura: I threw a treat at it. I don't understand.
Travis: That's a great thing to throw at a giant 400-pound bull mastiff.
Marisha: I spoke words at it. Apparently that's not good enough. Communicating.
Travis: Right, so we're walking back to town. We've got a giant fuck-off wolf with us. Vax looks like Edward Scissorhands.
Liam: I'm peeling that off as we walk.
Laura: What?
Travis: What?
Travis: No!
Laura: Leave it the fuck on!
Liam: I'm peeling it off.
Laura: It's really expensive. What, do you want to damage it?
Liam: I'm peeling it off.
Laura: (quietly) Fuck, he doesn't appreciate presents.
Matt: All right, so you take what little bit of the armor you had on, off, and are you putting your other armor back on?
Laura: He doesn't have any other armor. I took his armor.
Liam: I have regular fucking armor that I grew up in with you, you fucking shit.
Sam: Do you want to trade with me, Vax? I've got some armor you could take.
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: You're a funny man.
Matt: All right, so you're back in town and you have a wolf.
Travis: Do we find a holding pen for the wolf?
Taliesin: I don't think we need to. I think we can communicate to him--
Laura: No. Tell him not to attack villagers.
Taliesin: Ask him if he'll be willing to keep the town safe.
Laura: Do it in a really aggressive way, though, Keyleth. Stern.
Marisha: Very aggressive? Okay. Okay.
Sam: We should find some food for the thing, too.
Marisha: If I turned into a dog. If I turned into a wolf, do you think he'd respect me more?
Laura: No, he'll probably attack you.
Travis: He'll mount you.
Laura: Or he'll bone you.
Taliesin: I'm not ready for that game.
Sam: Do it.
Travis: Let's be clear. (laughter)
Laura: Matt's like, "mm-mm."
Liam: Oh, you soured the DM. (laughter)
Taliesin: To be fair, that's happened before.
Laura: Yeah, I remember.
Taliesin: With the troll.
Travis: With the troll. It was so good. That was you, wasn't it?
Taliesin: No, it wasn't me. Was it you?
Sam: I don't know.
Travis: Who was getting humped on?
Taliesin: I don't remember.
Sam: Finalize this wolf so we can go kill something.
Marisha: I take my staff and I say, Galdric! I'm being assertive.
Liam: Yes.
Sam: She's the alpha.
Laura: (whispering) Grog, go stand behind her.
Marisha: You want a task? I'll give you one.
Matt: All right. How long does Speak With--
Marisha: I don't know.
Matt: It lasts for ten minutes, so you can cast it again. It's first level.
Marisha: Oh, has it not been ten minutes?
Matt: It has been more than ten minutes. It took you three hours to return.
Marisha: Okay, we walked back? Okay, I'll cast it again.
Matt: All righty.
Marisha: Can I cast Speak With Animals on other people? I can't, right? No.
Matt: All right, so as you shout, go ahead and make an animal handling check, with advantage because of your ability to speak.
Marisha: With advantage?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: I'll take the-- what is that, 16? Plus a six, so 22.
Matt: Okay. Galdric turns to you and essentially leans towards you and you get the essence, the idea of a message across, and to keep me from having to walk behind now, at this point, as you guys have managed to make seeming amends at the moment, employs the idea of, "I'll listen if you give me a task."
Marisha: He talked back.
Laura: Have him guard the village.
Marisha: Okay. (louder) Galdric. Only a beast of your great fortitude--
Laura: Just fucking tell him to do it!
Marisha: Right, okay. Sorry. Would you like to guard--
Sam: It's a command.
Marisha: -- the town, Whitestone? (shouting) Guard this town, dog.
Travis: Keyleth, repeat after me.
Marisha: Yes.
Travis: In exchange for food, protect these lands.
Marisha: Galdric. In exchange for food, shelter, and a cozy fire every once in awhile--
Travis: I didn't say that shit. I didn't say that. He's a wolf. He doesn't need those.
Marisha: Patrol these lands.
Laura: Protect these lands.
Marisha: Protect these lands.
Travis: (quietly) Holy shit.
Matt: "For how long?"
Laura: (laughs) He already asked that.
Marisha: Why does he want details? Why does the dog want--
Laura: As long as we need you to.
Travis: No, no. A great danger approaches.
Taliesin: Until the danger has passed.
Travis: You'll know it when it comes.
Marisha: (clears throat) A great danger--
Laura: Approaches!
Marisha: Approaches! A great danger approaches. Your service is required until that danger--
Taliesin: Has passed.
Marisha: Has passed! Is no longer in effect. You'll know. You'll know, because they're fucking dragons, man. You'll know. Protect--
Travis: I walk over and put my hand over Keyleth's mouth. You stay. We feed you. Is there a tavern or a butcher shop or something nearby?
Matt: There is a butcher. As you're having this thought, however, Galdric turns back over to you and says, "I can feed myself."
Laura: Yeah, you can.
Matt: "But I will watch until this danger has passed."
Laura: Awesome.
Matt: "Then am I free to go?"
Marisha: Then you are free to go.
Matt: "Very well. I grow tired of service. I wait too long." And the wolf looks at you, gives you like an acknowledgement, and then walks off into the woods.
Laura: Bye, buddy!
Marisha: Thanks, Galdric. Appreciate it, man.
Laura: Man, that's a cool-looking wolf.
Marisha: I look at Grog. How was that? Did that sound okay?
Travis: That was the dumbest thing I've ever heard. (laughter)
Taliesin: You did good, you did good.
Sam: I thought she did very well.
Marisha: Thank you. It really liked you. You should learn how to talk to animals.
Laura: What is that? What is that you have? What is that?
Taliesin: I'm holding onto the Raven's Slumber jewel at the moment.
Sam: The thing that can capture evil.
Taliesin: It's empty now, and do you know what I bet would fit in it very nicely?
Travis: Me.
Laura: And we can carry him around and then pop him out. Wait, okay, wait. Is it going to hurt him? Does it hurt him? Is it like, it's bad?
Sam: Not only does it not hurt him, he does not age or feel any pain.
Travis: A willing creature need not make a saving throw.
Taliesin: It's automatic, and no time passes.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to try it, and I'm going to try it, and just to see how he likes it. If he's okay with it.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Hey, buddy, come here.
Matt: As you turn around and look, you see there's a small puddle on the ground where Trinket has vomited up. He's pushing dirt over it.
Travis: Yeah, you got to teach him to quit rummaging, that is really foul.
Laura: What was that? Trinket, what did you eat? Don't eat the puke. Do not eat the puke. Come here.
Matt: Trinket's like scraping dirt over it.
Travis: Got a carrot on your chin.
Laura: Trinket. Do you want to go for a ride? You like rides? Yeah? You want to go for one? All right, sit still. This'll be fun. I don't know how to use it.
Taliesin: Just point, yep.
Laura: I point to him with the--
Sam: You should probably say something cool.
Laura: By the power vested in me, I now pronounce you my Pokemon. (laughter)
Matt: Words be damned. It takes you an action or so to activate the crystal, but as you do, Trinket gives a confused look before Trinket's shadow seems to crawl up his legs until it forms into this circle, this dark core, roughly half the size of Trinket's form, before it shoots into the crystal.
Laura: Is he about this size, but I don't like that one, is he about this size?
Matt: A little larger than that before he goes into the crystal, but once he's in the crystal, it's small.
Laura: Oh, it's a little crystal?
Liam: Trinkachu, I choose you.
Laura: (gasps) Oh my gosh. That's really fun. Okay. How do I let him go?
Marisha: I think you-- yeah.
Laura: I release you.
Matt: Okay. As you do that, once again the same dark energy you saw earlier spills out and hits the ground in front of you, and from that dark shadow area Trinket's form emerges, standing there looking really confused.
Laura: How was it? Did it hurt? Can you talk to him? You can still talk to him. Talk to him. Ask him if it hurt.
Matt: (vomiting noises) Vomits a little bit more on the ground.
Laura: Well, that's not good.
Marisha: You know, sometimes the teleportation makes you lose your lunch.
Laura: Ask him how he's doing.
Marisha: Trinket? You all right buddy? You all right, there?
Matt: "Feeling sick."
Laura: Ask him how the little car ride was, ask him if he liked the ride.
Marisha: How was the ride? Did you feel all right? How was--?
Matt: "Yeah?"
Laura: Okay, would you mind, ask him if he'd mind doing that on occasion, you know, whenever I need him to.
Marisha: What was it like in there? Was it--?
Matt: "I don't remember."
Marisha: Okay, that's good, that's good. Would you mind--
Laura: Ask him if he cares if I do it again, ask him if he cares.
Marisha: Would you mind doing that, you know, frequently? On occasion. MATT "If she wants me to, okay."
Laura: What did he say, what did he say? He looked really cute when he said something.
Marisha: You have a lot of men who will do anything for you.
Laura: Oh, buddy! I go and hug him really tight and scratch his ears.
Matt: You do, and avoid the little bit of--
Laura: --vomit on, I don't even care! Oh my gosh, thank you! This is the best, this is the best and we can travel with him, we can climb with him, we can sneak around.
Sam: Hey, and if Trinket isn't in it, you can also use it to capture baddies.
Laura: I know, it's great!
Taliesin: And because of the way that the projection works, you could also in theory capture a baddie and then let them loose off a cliff and watch them drop.
Laura: Oh my god.
Marisha: Oh my god, you're right.
Taliesin: It's very convenient.
Laura: Oh my gosh. Okay.
Matt: So. You have a crystal, you've set a wolf on a path.
Sam: Where are we going next?
Matt: Where are you going now?
Taliesin: Your home, I imagine.
Laura: Don't we need to--oh, yeah.
Sam: What's our to-do list?
Marisha: We don't have to worry about it. We can, it's fine.
Taliesin: Fire Ashari it is.
Sam: Wait, wait, wait. What are the things that we need to do?
Laura: We need to check in on Keyleth's family.
Sam: Cobalt Reserve, Ashari.
Laura: Grog's family.
Sam: Did we already take care of Osysa's mate, Frostweald?
Laura: No, but that's down--
Taliesin: That's far.
Marisha: That's the other Vestige, correct?
Laura: Yes, that's over by Grog's family.
Matt: That's information about the Vestiges.
Sam: We need to steal an airship.
Taliesin: I agree, that's still very important.
Travis: I can't remember where, what--
Laura: They were by Kraghammer.
Travis: Thank you. I'm having terrible hiccups.
Sam: What about, we need to find Kaylie at some point. We also need to, who's gone, where's Allu-- where's Ki-- where's people?
Laura: Allura should be here in like a day. She should be here very soon.
Travis: What's close to here? (hiccups)
Taliesin: Nothing's close, we're specifically far away from everything.
Marisha: But we can go wherever we want as long as we've been there before.
Travis: Well, we should definitely go to the Fire Ashari.
Taliesin: Fire Ashari is the next--
Laura: We should go to the Fire Ashari.
Marisha: Oh god, I'm immediately nauseous.
Matt: (bear noises)
Liam: That's two of us.
Marisha: Oh, Trinket, buddy. What time is it?
Laura: (laughs) Do you need some water?
Matt: It's still, with the travel to and from, it's middle afternoon, like one o'clock in the afternoon.
Taliesin: Take it.
Sam: If we're going to go, do we need anything before we leave? We got everything we need? Potions and stuff? Want to buy some meat for your cooler?
Laura: Yeah, let's get some meat.
Matt: It's pretty easy to go ahead and procure it, five gold of meat will fill that thing.
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: So go ahead and mark five gold off your paper.
Sam: How much, could I buy a medical kit somewhere?
Matt: Yeah, you could find a general store and purchase a medical kit.
Sam: How much is that?
Matt: I'm going to look that up right now.
Sam: All right, whatever, I've got it.
Taliesin: It's nifty that you have a book that tells you how much something like that costs.
Matt: Imagine that. It's like it's a handbook of some kind, it's crazy.
Marisha: Does anyone have any fire-resistant items?
Laura: He does.
Liam: I do.
Laura: Put it on.
Marisha: I might pick up some fire resistant potions as well.
Travis: I have this black iron plate that I haven't used ever. 'While wearing this heavy plate 'armor, the bearer gains resistance to any fire damage.'
Matt: Five gold for an herbalist's kit for you.
Laura: Oh, plate armor, none of us can wear it but Pike.
Matt: An herbalist's kit, like five gold.
Sam: Can that stabilize people?
Matt: If used with a medicine check, yeah.
Laura: Okay, I have this, which I can't wear.
Taliesin: What is that?
Laura: It's a purple and black robe. It was Lady Briarwood's robes.
Taliesin: What does it do?
Laura: Clings to nearby darkness as you walk. While wearing this robe, you gain resistance to piercing damage. Anybody need pierce resistance that can wear robes?
Taliesin: I'm pretty reasonable.
Sam: Do I wear robes?
Matt: Robes would be worn instead of your armor.
Sam: No thanks.
Laura: What about Gloves of Missile Snaring? That appeal to anyone?
Sam: Missile snaring? What does that do?
Laura: These gloves seem to almost meld into your hands when you don them, and when a ranged weapon attack hits you, you can use your reaction to reduce the damage by 1d10 plus your dexterity modifier provided that you have a free hand. If you reduce the damage to zero, you can catch the missile if it's small enough to hold in that hand.
Taliesin: Does it require attuning?
Marisha: They're pretty sleek.
Laura: It requires two, no it just requires one free hand.
Taliesin: Yes, but does it require attuning?
Laura: Yes it does, it requires attuning.
Taliesin: I might be attuned out at this point.
Laura: Anybody? I feel like that could be cool for you, Scanlan.
Sam: I think I can take it?
Taliesin: What's your dex? Your dexterity is not very-- actually, it might work out well for me, weirdly enough.
Marisha: Are you fully attuned?
Taliesin: I can undo something that I'm not using.
Marisha: Percy, you have access here in Whitestone to alchemy supplies, correct?
Taliesin: Matt, I have access to alchemy supplies here in Whitestone, correct?
Matt: (laughs) I mean, there are elements of your initial workshop I guess, that a lot of supplies have been cannibalized but a few things can be pieced together. Plus there was a lot of alchemical elements and tools that were utilized in the subterranean tunnels as part of the refinement process for the whitestone residuum, the large vats of acid that were distilled by the Briarwoods while they were here, and there are other elements of their own tinkering in the alchemical arts that remain scattered throughout the castle. So yeah, you can definitely find enough to tinker with if you want.
Marisha: I mean, we could take the rest of the evening and I can attempt to make some fire resist potions.
Sam: Eh.
Travis: All right, here's what I'm thinking, right? I mean, if we go after my herd, we're in for a fight. A big one. If we go to your Fire Ashari, we're doing recon and hopefully learning something, right?
Marisha: Well, we're going to be in for a fight at the Fire Ashari as well because there's a giant sunder in the fire plane, and last time I checked there were fire imps and elementals pouring through there.
Travis: Are those bad?
Taliesin: Eh.
Marisha: They're annoying
Taliesin: As long as we're quick we can go about it.
Marisha: Well.
Sam: What's our mission?
Travis: You really want to get the rest of the testicles of--
Marisha: I mean, we could theoretically see if there are survivors and I can attempt to close the tear in the plane. I don't know if I can do that. However, I don't know anyone else particularly more qualified to attempt it.
Travis: Allura or that bearded dude.
Marisha: We're talking about the Fire Ashari and possibly what to do there.
Laura: Oh.
Marisha: We can go and look for survivors--
Laura: And bring them here.
Marisha: And someone should probably close the tear in the fire plane.
Laura: Should we wait for Allura then, before we go?
Travis: Well, if there are survivors, they might not be that way for very long if we don't go.
Laura: They've been there for a while already.
Marisha: If there are survivors--
Laura: Then they're surviving.
Marisha: They've survived. I agree. It's not going to be pretty.
Taliesin: I know you don't want to go.
Marisha: I really don't.
Taliesin: But we need to go. I say we take the rest of the day. You make your potions, we leave first thing in the morning.
Laura: Wait for Allura, hopefully she'll be here by then.
Taliesin: Maybe Allura will join us by tomorrow morning. If not, we teleport over.
Matt: Okay, you guys are going to rest for the evening?
Travis: Wait, hold on, is there like a house of entertainment in Whitestone? I know it's just getting back on its feet but you know.
Matt: That would be a question more for Percival.
Travis: Percy? I'm having a bit of a soul struggle and I'm wondering if I might bend your ear for a moment.
Taliesin: Sure.
Travis: Yeah, could I speak to you over here?
Taliesin: Yes, of course.
Travis: Right, so, like, I want to get my freak on.
Taliesin: I don't feel that way about you. (laughter)
Travis: Yeah, no, I, I'm sorry.
Taliesin: I mean, you're very attractive.
Travis: That was very unclear. So I know this is like your home and stuff and you might not have been aware of it, but they have these houses where like....
Taliesin: Oh, where you get your freak on!
Travis: Yes.
Taliesin: Yes. Yes, we have them.
Travis: Oh good, do you think they're still in order?
Taliesin: Oh, I imagine so.
Travis: Could you point me in that direction?
Taliesin: No, I have no idea where they are. I do know that they exist. I actually had things to do here. I didn't have time for these.
Travis: Oh yeah, me too, important things. I was thinking for Scanlan in case he gets bored, you know, you've got to keep him focused.
Taliesin: I wouldn't actually know where any of these places were, would I?
Matt: No, and those that did exist in this town have not been...
Taliesin: I figured as much. I'm just fucking with him. Okay. No.
Travis: Oh, okay, well, I'll let Scanlan know. Just keep it between you and me 'cause he's very sensitive about these things.
Taliesin: Your secret is safe with my indifference. That's fine.
Travis: Well, my, my, indifference
Taliesin: I know you do.
Travis: Yep.
Taliesin: You're wonderful.
Marisha: Can I start telling that to people in real life?
Taliesin: Yes you can. I do it all the time.
Marisha: Yes. Your secret is safe with my indifference.
Travis: Okay. I'm going to rest.
Sam: Before we set off on this, is there anything closer or more pressing? I don't actually know why we're going to her place, but I'm fine with it.
Marisha: To look for survivors and close the giant tear in the fire plane that evil, well not evil, fiery entities are pouring through.
Taliesin: It's a hellmouth, it's basically a hellmouth.
Travis: It's either that or we go goliath hunting.
Laura: That's next.
Taliesin: But this is quick, this is something that we can knock off the list.
Sam: All right, let's knock it off.
Travis: Yeah, right, let's just check it off.
Liam: As we're walking through town, do I see any weaponsmiths?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Liam: Okay.
Taliesin: I'll help you make the potions.
Liam: 21.
Matt: Okay, that'll help cut down on the time. 21? There are two functional smiths left in the town. There were two more than that overall, that were more like blacksmithy, but they both unfortunately lost their lives in the insurrection. But there are two functional blacksmiths in this, yeah.
Liam: And one's nearby, to pass through?
Matt: About a ten-minute diversion.
Liam: I'm splitting off from the group.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: We've got to get out of here.
Liam: One's in front of me now?
Matt: Well, you find your way to-- it's a small blacksmith, and most of it's outside. Though the day is growing late, you do see an older gentleman, long, tattered grey hair pulled into a very tight bun in the back and a beard that is actually tied off to the side. Otherwise it would be hanging down into his work. He's wearing soot-covered clothes, big leather apron, leather gloves, and he's currently in the process of (ping ping) turning over and hammering out a piece of orange glowing steel.
Liam: Excuse me, sorry to interrupt, I have a very simple request.
Matt: He doesn't stop. He seems to, he acknowledges your presence but he's still working as he's listening. (smithing sounds)
Liam: I have six gold burning a hole in my pocket. I'm not looking for anything simple. Do you have a short sword? A regular old shortsword.
Matt: (ting) He looks over at you. "If that's what you're looking for, on that wall over there we've got two shortswords." (ting)
Liam: What's the difference between the two that I can see?
Matt: (smithing sounds) That you can see? Make a perception check.
Liam: 22.
Matt: Looking over them both, from this distance, they're both made with different hilt designs and different pommel designs, the grips are a little different but other than that the blades are pretty much identical.
Liam: I grab one off the wall. I slap down six gold, which I know is way too much and say, thank you sir. Pelor lives here. And I walk away.
Matt: Okay, as you start walking away he goes, "Hey."
Liam: Yeah?
Matt: "You're going to pay proper for that shortsword."
Liam: Oh, I'm sorry. How much does it cost?
Matt: "12 gold pieces."
Liam: My apologies. 12?
Matt: "12 gold pieces, friend."
Liam: So I put down six. I put down another 14. I really apologize. I was just confused.
Matt: "It's all right. No harm no foul." Takes the gold and scoops it and puts it into his pouch. "Have a good day."
Liam: I walk down the street going like-- it's big.
Matt: It's much bigger than you're used to, but it's got a fine balance to it and it's well-made. All right, so as you guys have all--
Laura: I've got an opal dagger you could have used.
Liam: I don't need your dagger.
Taliesin: We're going to make our potions?
Matt: Yes, yes. All right, so.
Marisha: I have another question.
Matt: What is your other question?
Marisha: Before we all go to bed tonight can we get like a fuckton of the green stone under Whitestone?
Taliesin: There's really not a lot of it.
Marisha: Say like $1,000 worth and maybe have like a real nice Heroes' Feast before tomorrow?
Liam: Wise as fuck.
Laura: Or in the morning.
Liam: Heroes' Breakfast.
Marisha: I've got to do it at night, because I have to Tree Stride in the morning.
Matt: You can choose either to create the potion or to mine the residuum for the evening. You cannot do both. Both are time, like, to pull that material from the-- because most of it that remains has been already embedded within the ziggurat beneath. You would actually have to physically chip it from the structure.
Laura: I have a plan, Keyleth.
Marisha: Yes?
Laura: We will cover the 1,000 gold from our own party funds and have someone here mine some shit for us and give it to us later.
Marisha: I like that plan, yeah. Sounds good to me.
Sam: How about the wolf?
Taliesin: So potions.
Laura: Percival, do you have people here who can mine? Looking for work, people--?
Marisha: Yeah, sure, why not?
Taliesin: I'll let them know that they should start trying to pull the residuum out of the wall, but it's dangerous down there.
Laura: Yeah, it is.
Taliesin: And tampering with it is definitely...
Travis: Necessary.
Taliesin: Should be ginger. It would, I'm trying to keep everything ginger down there.
Laura: So maybe we should take 1,000 gold just from your family stores then, huh? That might be smarter.
Taliesin: We currently have 1,000 gold from my family stores that are in the group treasury at the moment.
Laura: Oh, we do. No, that's 500. That was just 500. Just so you know.
Taliesin: I feel like it was more than that.
Laura: No, it was just 500.
Liam: Hey, de Rolo, do you remember what happened yesterday?
Taliesin: He's not there.
Laura: Isn't he, though?
Taliesin: I was going to do such a nice thing for you, but never mind now.
Laura: (laughs) No, no, no, do something really nice for me.
Liam: Where did I go? Oh, I went to buy a shortsword.
Taliesin: No, never mind. You went to buy a shortsword.
Laura: Dear, dear, dear, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Do nice things. All right?
Taliesin: I'm trying to be gentle with my family right now. They're taking on an awful lot.
Laura: You're right. They're taking on so many people.
Taliesin: And we'll see what we can do.
Liam: I'd like to think you hear me in your mind.
Taliesin: Always fucking hear you in my mind.
Laura: Let's just use the damned party funds for the time being. It's fine, Keyleth. This is a really important feast.
Taliesin: We're busy making potions.
Laura: All right.
Matt: So you prepare a Heroes' Feast before you begin this potion-creation process? Is that what I understand or not?
Laura: What?
Marisha: Can I make some potions and then, like, I make dinner for us before we go to bed?
Matt: It's going to take you about the length of a day to create the potion, with his help it takes it to about half, so it'll be about 12 hours of creating. Eight to 12 hours. So.
Travis: Pick one.
Taliesin: Pick one.
Marisha: I'll do a damn feast.
Taliesin: No potion?
Matt: You can do the potion as well. The feast only takes a moment to cast.
Marisha: All right, okay. Yeah.
Matt: I'm just saying, be aware that you guys will probably have, if you want to get a full rest after that potion creation process, you're going to have to wait until like this time tomorrow, like late in the day to make your journey. Which is fine, if you're willing to be patient about it.
Travis: Sure.
Matt: Yes, no?
Travis: Say one, just say one.
Marisha: Yeah, let's do it, let's do it. Let's go in prepared and then we can always rest on that side.
Matt: Cool. For a fine, fine dinner.
Laura: Just want to make sure we feast right before we leave so that it's most useful.
Matt: All right, so. You, everyone else goes to sleep while you and Percy work tirelessly through the night. If I could have you--
Liam: Fuck!
Matt: (laughs) Just for the sake of it, I want you to go ahead and make an arcana check.
Marisha: Aw, an arcana? Do I get advantage because of my little skill in alchemy? I'm skilled in alchemy.
Matt: Yeah. Oh, that's right you are, never mind, go ahead and do that.
Matt: Proficiency bonus, are you proficient in alchemy?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: So proficiency bonus, and for this, use intellect modifier.
Marisha: Okay. Intellect, which makes it plus seven. Do I have advan-- ooh, I rolled a natural 19.
Matt: Okay. We'll say, for the fair cost of, reduced due to the roll, 450 gold pieces, you create a potion of resistance of your choice of resistance.
Marisha: Just one?
Matt: Just one.
Marisha: Fire.
Matt: It takes a long time, man.
Marisha: Fire!
Matt: Fire, all right. You create a potion of fire resistance. The materials cost you 450 gold to create, you finish it by about sunrise the next day. Everyone else begins slowly waking up after the night's rest as you guys both, bags under your eyes.
Laura: Oh, that was a good night's sleep, I tell you what.
Travis: Seriously.
Sam: Keyleth, could you--
Marisha: What? Oh, god, you snuck up on me.
Sam: Could you make me some tea real quick?
Marisha: Scanlan.
Sam: What?
Marisha: Go fuck yourself.
Sam: What, you were up before me, I thought--
Taliesin: All right. All right, this is fine.
Marisha: This is fine.
Taliesin: This is good.
Marisha: This is great.
Matt: You're doing a Heroes' Feast for breakfast, then? Is that how it's working?
Marisha: I'll take a nap. I'll cook breakfast, guys, good morning. Good morning!
Laura: Oh hey, good morning, Keyleth!
Sam: Why don't you sleep during the day, we'll all take our feast, and then blast off at night time?
Marisha: Because I have to teleport and cooking this feast are both 6th-level spells and I can only do one of those a day.
Travis: Man, it's hard being a druid.
Laura: Can anybody else make a feast? That's here?
Marisha: Pike. Pike. Pike?
Sam: She's with Gilmore.
Travis: She's not here.
Laura: (sighs) I miss Pike.
Liam: We all miss Pike.
Marisha: I'll cook breakfast, guys.
Laura: No, I'll cook breakfast. No, I won't cook breakfast.
Liam: That's a good idea, for you to not cook breakfast.
Matt: What's the plan?
Marisha: I'm cooking breakfast!
Matt: Are you cooking breakfast or are you summoning breakfast? That's my question.
Laura: Are you summoning breakfast and then you're sleeping and then we're leaving?
Marisha: I'm summoning-- yes, I'm summoning breakfast and then I'm sleeping.
Laura: And then you're sleeping and then we're leaving as soon as you wake up.
Matt: Okay, that's what I was wondering. We got the answer, okay, cool. Hoo, today's been a slog. All right, so you go ahead and you use Heroes' Feast, summoning forth a fantastical breakfast meal filled with coffee and eggs and everything you would hope for, the finest materials.
Laura: Froot Loops!
Matt: (laughs) Sure, Froot Loops is on the menu, why not?
Taliesin: Lucky Charms.
Matt: No Lucky Charms, sorry, those aren't available on Tal'Dorei. But yes, all you guys take an hour to finish devouring this, you finish your meal, all you guys get a 2d10 hit point maximum increase to your hit points.
Laura: Ooh, ooh, greens, greens!
Matt: And immune to poison, frightened, and all wisdom saving throws have advantage.
Travis: Damn!
Sam: Advantage on wisdom.
Matt: Yes, the usual.
Travis: Almost broke.
Marisha: And wisdom.
Laura: And you're immune to fear, right?
Marisha: Immune to fear, poison, and what else?
Matt: And you get advantage on wisdom saving throws.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: After which, Percy and Keyleth pretty much fall asleep at the table as it vanishes and they both collapse to the ground, eggs out of the corner of their mouth. Eventually they make themselves back up to sleep and the rest of you guys peter around for the remainder of the day while they get their full rest. It now comes to, at the end of that eight-hour period of time, I'd say about three, four in the afternoon before they finally wake up. You've restored your spells.
Marisha: Yay!
Matt: And the rest of you are ready to go about your business.
Laura: Let's go, let's go, let's go.
Liam: Wait! While they're sleeping, right--
Matt: Mm-hmm?
Liam: I take Scanlan aside.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Oi.
Liam: Hey, buddy.
Sam: Hey, friendo.
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: What's up?
Liam: We don't talk a lot.
Sam: Well, we start to and then you leave the room, usually. (laughter)
Liam: I don't handle personal emotional confrontation very well.
Sam: It's okay. I walk away. (laughter)
Marisha: Oh, shit!
Sam: Then I come back, I feel bad.
Taliesin: No, no, that was perfect.
Liam: Where did you go?
Sam: Just kidding, just kidding.
Liam: Pull up a chair, sit down, I want to ask you something.
Sam: I'm already as low as I can go.
Liam: You're right. How do you do it?
Sam: How do I do what?
Liam: How do you do it? You're risking your life as much as anyone in this group, you're almost dying every day. You're fucking smiling all the time. How do you do it? I'm kind of asking as Liam to Sam as well, but mostly as Vax to Scanlan. How do you do it? You almost died yesterday as well. Or two days ago, fuck. Why do you do it?
Sam: Well, Vax. I don't know, I mean, I like you people, okay? Everything before this was not as good. This is better. That's why. It's very simple. You had a shitty childhood, didn't you? You and the sister?
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: I think Grog had some troubles. We've all had our share of shit before we all met. Now we're together, we're a family, this is better. That's how I smile. It's better than it was before. That's it.
Liam: We're probably going to die in the next month.
Sam: Yes, but it's fun while it lasts.
Liam: All right. Thought I might--
Sam: Glean some wisdom?
Liam: Yeah, but I'm just as confused as before.
Sam: Listen, I'm older than you.
Liam: How much older?
Sam: A bit. I've seen more than you have. And it's all shitty, so it just depends on how you look at it. You can dwell on the shit, or you can just leave it behind in people's beds and keep going.
Marisha: Oh god, that works on too many levels.
Taliesin: Oh god, that's too deep.
Marisha: Too deep.
Liam: You did that. Water under the bridge.
Sam: I walk away.
Liam: That little motherfucker shit in my bed.
Matt: All right. As you regather your will, path chosen; Keyleth, do you wish to prepare the transportation spell?
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Let's do this.
Matt: All right. All of you gather and find your way down to the Sun Tree in the center of the town. At this point, it's later afternoon, you've been growing accustomed these past few days of taking action right around dusk, and as the sky turns from a blue to a bit of an orangish hue, you all find yourselves ready to transition back over to the continent of Issylra.
Marisha: Let's go. To the Sun Tree.
Matt: Keyleth steps forward, touches her hand to the Sun Tree, completes her mental incantation, and you watch the trunk once again tear open into the somewhat oval walkway into the tree itself. On the opposite side, what's your destination?
Marisha: Oh, god. As close as I can get to the Fire Ashari, I guess.
Matt: Okay. You recall, passing through, there were a number of trees towards the base of the mountain that were starting to grow petrified from the proximity to the ash that constantly falls from the sky. They died a long time ago and are slowly beginning to petrify. As the portal opens up on the opposite side, you can see beyond that the dark rock that formulates that mountain range. At the same time, you can see a dull orange glow, and you all begin to step through in rapid succession, Trinket racing up after Vex. All of you find yourself stepping out the other side, at which point you look up and you can see the pathway that you took towards the top of the mountain where the Fire Ashari called Pyrah, where they maintained their ever-vigilant watch on the tear into the fire elemental plane. What you do notice immediately is that the path that you took initially is no longer a simple walkway. Against the now very dark sky, this side of the realm itself, night is, actually, no, sorry. At this point, you've actually beaten the sun.
Marisha: Oh, do we gain a few hours?
Matt: Yeah, you guys have gained a few hours, technically.
Marisha: Awesome.
Matt: So it's still light in the sky from other parts in the distance, however, there is a perpetual dark cloud of smoke and actual storm cloud gathering across this mountain range. As you recall the first time you were here, that's the nature of Pyrah, it's always under this thick, heavy, soot-and-ash-filled cloud cover. The pathway that winds up the mountain, though, is instead a glowing orange mass of slowly dribbling molten rock that has filled that entire walkway, and it has come to rest at the base of the mountain where it has gathered and begun to cool. You guys are hundreds of feet off from this point as you step out of the tree. However, where you see the molten rock has reached the base of the mountain, you-- it's cooled and formed into solid rock at its base, and you start seeing flashes of the orange turning dark, then another section turns dark from the opposite side. And then a few moments pass and you can see the orange of the next section, up in like ten-foot segments, it's going dark and hardening on its own. You get the sense that your arrival did not trigger this more than it has been happening since before you arrived.
Marisha: Can I do a nature check to figure out what's up?
Matt: Sure. Actually, this would be a perception check to see if you can ascertain.
Marisha: 16.
Matt: 16. It's difficult to make out at this distance, but you can see, along portions of the jagged mountainside, a collection of small figures that are making their way up the mountain, and their slow ascent is met with the lava flow cooling in sections.
Marisha: Do they look like people, like humanoids?
Matt: It's hard to tell from this distance, they look human-ish, humanoid-ish.
Taliesin: I attempt to use the optics on my gun to get a better look at them.
Matt: Sure, go ahead and make a perception check.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: 18. A little bit of a clearer look through, they do appear to be humanoid. You do see two arms, two legs. You can't gauge size comparison from this distance.
Sam: How far?
Matt: At this point, they're probably a good 800 feet up the mountain.
Marisha: 800 feet?
Taliesin: Are they dressed like the Ashari that I've met?
Matt: From what you can make out, their color palette shifts, there are reds and browns, some stand out as an aquamarine white. The Ashari you saw were a pretty consistent color palette. This is a little more varied.
Taliesin: I don't know who these people are.
Marisha: They could still be Ashari. Just in their elemental forms. Are there any birds around? I look up, do I see birds in the sky?
Matt: There are no birds in the sky. Unfortunately, because of the nature of this area, especially as the oppressive fumes and dust continue to pour off from the top of the caldera of this mountain range, it has made it not fitting for any sort of aerial life that you're used to seeing. You glance around for about a minute or two and you don't see any sort of bird life in the air.
Travis: Did the ground cool where they were walking? Could we follow them up?
Taliesin: We should.
Marisha: Let's stay far behind. Let's go quietly.
Laura: Let's walk. Stealth? I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.
Matt: Okay. Everyone make a stealth check, including Trinket.
Travis: You don't want to put him in the thing?
Sam: You could.
Laura: (gasps) Okay.
Liam: Try it out.
Laura: I put it on a string so I could put it around my neck because it's a necklace because it's cooler that way.
Matt: Well, it has a chain on it that it came with.
Laura: It's got a chain on it, so it's around my neck.
Matt: All right, so you take it, you put--
Sam: It has a chain and a string now.
Matt: Chain and string.
Marisha: The string's so you don't forget.
Matt: Exactly. You trigger the necklace, pointing it in the direction of Trinket, and once again Trinket is absorbed into the crystal, vanishing within the inside. All right.
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17.
Sam: Pass Without a Trace is--?
Travis: Plus ten. I rolled shitty.
Laura: 30.
Liam: 35.
Marisha: 32.
Taliesin: 29.
Sam: 25.
Matt: Okay. You guys begin making your trek up. How are you going up the mountain? Are you scaling the cooled flow?
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: That's probably the safest route given the fact that most of the other side of the mountain range itself is pretty jagged, and elements of it, because of the formation of this giant volcanic caldera, there are portions of broken stone and obsidian glass that sticks out the side.
Marisha: As we're walking up, I fall behind and I slip Vax the potion of fire protection.
Matt: All right. You guys continue in pace with this, eventually, and make another perception check?
Marisha: Much better, that's a natural 19. 30.
Matt: 30. Okay. Looking up, as this cluster of individuals makes their way towards the very top of the mountain, seemingly not taking sight of your traveling group, you're beginning to see the nature of each section of this flow cooling. And what you're seeing is the group will move up a bit, stop, and there appears to be a burst of-- sometimes it looks like very strong wind, sometimes it looks like a very localized sleet storm that is brought against the side of the mountain and is actually forcefully cooling the flow down temporarily, at least in those sections, before it begins to spill over and continue its slow molten descent, but they're doing their best to continue to force it back up the mountain and--
Laura: Those are druids.
Marisha: Those are druids.
Marisha: I cast Skywrite in the clouds above us, in the smoke.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: And I write--
Laura: "So, how are you guys doing up there?"
Taliesin: "Hi."
Marisha: "Hi. Hey you guys." I write, in druidic symbols, "Keyleth, Kaitiaki."
Sam: What's that? Is that her?
Matt: Okay. You notice the pace in which this group has ascended comes to a halt at the very, very top of the mountain range where it ends, and there's a slight pause before the clouds shift a second time and it says, from what you understand, "Kaitiaki. Survivors remain, Keyleth."
Marisha: And I respond with, "Help has arrived."
Sam: You guys are texting?
Marisha: (laughs) Yeah.
Matt: Druid texting.
Laura: What are you saying?
Taliesin: Stop looking at your phone.
Laura: What do they say?
Sam: Why don't we go over there and talk to them?
Marisha: They're survivors.
Travis: Well, let's go.
Laura: Are they nice?
Marisha: They're survivors. What does it matter?
Travis: And we go.
Marisha: Let's go. And I tell them, you know, "Arriving. Stand down. Here we come."
Taliesin: "Lol."
Marisha: "Lol. Winky-face."
Liam: As we travel, because I was too out of it to respond and she's way ahead, I take the potion that Keyleth gave to me, because she didn't have to, I've got the David Bowie armor on now.
Matt: You did don it. Okay.
Liam: Yes, yeah. Before going to bed.
Marisha: Oh you did, okay.
Liam: And I press it into Vex's hand.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Hey, I took your, all right, I'm going to take it.
Matt: What was your choice of resistance? I assume it was fire. Okay. All right. As you guys progress up, and it is, though it is a safe route, it is still a relatively steep incline and you're all having to work together to find handholds, and it is very arduous physically getting up there. I would like everyone to go ahead and make a constitution saving throw.
Sam: Oh, shit.
Laura: A constitution?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Oh, do we get advantage because of the feast?
Travis: No, that's only wisdom.
Laura: Shit.
Liam: Come on, Colville meteorite die.
Travis: 17.
Liam: I'm so weak.
Laura: Come on, jade.
Liam: Natural 20!
Laura: You motherfucker!
Liam: Thank you, Matthew Colville.
Laura: I'm rolling my giant jade dice, because it's green.
Travis: Way to announce it.
Laura: Womp-womp. Oh, that's a six.
Travis: (laughs) You're fucked.
Marisha: 20.
Taliesin: 13.
Sam: Five.
Matt: Okay. As you guys begin to get partially up the mountain, the proximity of the heat from the-- because the exterior of the rock has cooled, but it's still molten beneath and there are parts of that are still cracking open, and bits of the heat are still pouring through, plus the general physical exertion from the not-very-hardy physiques of both Vex and Scanlan, you both suffer one level of exhaustion from the ascent up the side of this mountain.
Laura: Oh, Trinket's in his thing, he's not worried at all.
Taliesin: I don't actually know what one level of exhaustion is.
Matt: You guys have disadvantage on ability checks. All your skill checks right now, until your next long rest, are at disadvantage.
Travis: Levels of exhaustion suck.
Sam: Not saving.
Matt: However, as you guys are approaching towards the top, you can see now the humanoids that were at the top of this mountain crest have been since keeping the flow at bay and each time it begins to crest over again and continue its flow, it's blasted again from the side and cools and it's building this very, very slow gradual outcropping--
Marisha: I use my cantrip Gust and cool areas alongside as we ascend.
Matt: Okay. You glance up and you now have a better view of this group, and what you do see ahead of you, specifically Keyleth, appears to be a cluster of about eight or so Fire Ashari-dressed individuals. You can't make out their physical details yet. Along with five other entities that are dressed in the colors and vestments of those from Zephrah.
Marisha: Oh shit!
Travis: From who? From what?
Liam: What's the matter?
Laura: What's up? What's happening?
Marisha: I run up.
Matt: Keyleth goes running up.
Marisha: You said seven or eight from Zephrah?
Matt: There are five from Zephrah.
Laura: Are we going to, we're going to follow?
Liam: Yeah, I'm breaking out of stealth and running.
Taliesin: Ah. Yeah. No. We're running now.
Laura: I walk. I'm pretty tired. You and me. Let's just walk.
Sam: Yeah. You can carry me.
Taliesin: Cardio. God.
Matt: Okay, it takes a while to get up there. As you guys begin to approach, a little bit behind Keyleth, and you look, you see the only two notable Fire Ashari that you see there are Nastoen, which is a human female that you saw was one of the four that first greeted you as you approached Pyrah when you got to the mountaintop. She looks a little rough, but she's definitely in one piece. The other one that greets you, and immediately you recognize as Flamespeaker Cerkonos, who currently does not have his right arm. It is charred and is, through some semblance of flame, cauterized to where he no longer has a shoulder and part of his torso is a black mass of burnt skin, probably intentionally, but as you approach he puts his hand out and goes, "Hail, Keyleth."
Marisha: Hail, Cerkonos. And I run up and give him a hug.
Matt: He pats you on the back and there's a coldness to his look, his expression. You can see in a brief instant, though there is strength and determination, there is a moment as he looks into your face that you can see the sorrow of losing most of his people.
Marisha: And I look back at him and I say  I'm so sorry.
Matt: "This is not your fault. We had this coming. We are the able-bodied few you see."
Marisha: Are these all that have survived?
Matt: "We are 25 living. The rest reside at the base of the mountain, to be watched, or are the watchers. But our attrition is of our own making. We helped outsiders too long ago."
Marisha: What? What do you mean, like, how long ago? 12, 15 years?
Matt: "We helped seal a drake in this rift."
Laura: Thordak.
Matt: "That is the name they call him. We helped bring and bind the beast to this rift, sealing within it the heart of a primordial flame, one of the few pure essence crystals of our plane. Such a binding will not allow it to leave. It is a punishment for the most terrible of evils that the Ashari take under their order. We carved from the crystal in bind. This beast was too strong and took the entire crystal, but it seemed enough. It seemed enough."
Marisha: Cerkonos, it's not your fault. There are greater forces at work here, beyond us. That's something that I am desperately trying to reassure myself of every day.
Matt: And a voice comes up from over the mountain range, raspy, older, and with a casual importance to it, and it says, "So, are you claiming some semblance of dealing with this?" And as it steps over, the face looks down with recognition. "My god. Keyleth."
Marisha: Who are you?
Matt: You guys look up and you see long, silver-haired half-elf in later years dressed in the blue and white robes of the Air Ashari. You see before you Korren, your father. "You live."
Marisha: Dad!
Matt: He steps forward and goes in, as he steps away from Cerkonos, takes you in his arms and holds you extremely tight against him.
Marisha: I'm sorry I didn't check in sooner. I didn't want you to be disappointed.
Matt: "Shh." He puts his finger up to your lips, holds you back and looks you over and with a smile on his face, you can see the hardness of his expression fade. "Keyleth, you've grown."
Marisha: A lot's happened.
Matt: "You look just like her."
Marisha: I haven't found Mom.
Matt: "Her path was her own. I'm just glad that you have maintained yours." He wipes the tear from your face and says, "How goes the Aramente?"
Marisha: Well.
Laura: She's kicking ass.
Matt: "Good. Good." And he places his thumb at the corner of his eye. "We were called naught but a day ago by the surviving Pyrah. Told of the angry mountain and the terrible drake that sundered the rift. I helmed the team while the majority of our people stayed to keep Zephrah cloaked and safe from the marauding beast. We've only just made our way up the mountain. Your arrival is quite fortuitous, as we need all the help we can get."
Sam: How can we be of assistance?
Matt: "Come. See what remains of Pyrah." He turns around and walks back over towards the top of the mountain.
Marisha: Daddy.
Matt: He stops. Looks over his shoulder towards you. "Yes?"
Marisha: It's good to see you again, father.
Matt: "It's good to see you as well, daughter. Now come. Show me what you've learned." Goes back to walking. The rest of the Fire Ashari stand up, acknowledge and recognize those of you that stand here before, visiting once before. Cerkonos looks about. "You show strength and honor by coming here in our time of need. This will not be forgotten. Now come." As you follow them up over the top of the mountain, you see once again before you the caldera of this once-volcanic mountain has been blown apart in areas. You can see sections of large black stone that are now pushed up into jagged obelisks where once was a relatively smooth blackened shale countryside. You can see there are pits of molten rock that have been punched through the floor and have gathered into these pools where the air above is slowly shifting and warped by the heat that is now released above the mountaintop. The flow of lava that descends down the side of this mountain continues and swells and heads inward towards the Cindergrove. The Cindergrove, from what you can see from this distance, is but a fraction of what was once there, most of the trees now torn apart and scattered amongst the top of this mountain. You can see bits and pieces of the various petrified trees thrown hundreds of feet from the center. There are still standing, defiant trees amongst what once was the Cindergrove, but they are very sparse, many of them now blackened by what you can see in the very distance beyond the broken huts and homes that once held the Pyrah, you can see in the distance moving, glowing dots of various elemental energies spiraling outward from a very large central red rift that sits there pulsing and pulsing with bright, almost sunlight energy. It's like staring into the sun at the very zenith of its movement. You have to avert your eyes even staring towards this rift, now a good 30, 40 feet taller than it was when you last returned here. What was once the portal in the ground has now ruptured and is emerging, slowly piercing out of the top of this mountain. Undaunted, your father and the other Ashari continue walking forward with no words.
Laura: I rush forward a little bit to talk to him. Question. Your majesty? I want to help, we all want to help as much as possible, but I don't know any magic. Most of us don't. Are we going to be able to do anything?
Matt: "Well, I certainly hope so. If you've survived this long with my daughter, you've picked up a few tricks."
Laura: Well, that I have.
Marisha: Father, I wouldn't be here if it wasn't for these people. They are the most capable that I know.
Matt: "This is good. Because that's who we need right now."
Marisha: However, since we're druids, we're a little bit more, you know. Geared. Prepared to deal with the fire. I can cast Protection from Energy on a couple of these people, if you wouldn't mind maybe grabbing the other two?
Matt: "I will do what I can."
Marisha: And I cast Protection from Fire on Percy, you have it, you have it, do you have it?
Travis: Well, I really don't even know what I'm going to do here.
Marisha: Well, it's going to protect you from fire.
Travis: Okay.
Marisha: Scanlan?
Sam: Hit me, babe.
Marisha: I'll do Percy and Scanlan. Father, can you--?
Matt: It's a concentration spell, so you can only really have one person going, and that's your concentration.
Marisha: Can only have one person going.
Matt: Yep.
Travis: Well, good.
Marisha: I could cast it at higher levels. Can I cast it at higher levels?
Travis: I'll take a mulligan on this one.
Marisha: Can't do that with this one? Fuck.
Laura: Do Scanlan. Do Scanlan.
Sam: No, I'm fine, don't worry about me.
Marisha: Well, I'm going to cast it on myself, for starters. Because I want it.
Laura: All right.
Marisha: So I'm going to cast Protection from Fire on myself.
Laura: What does a potion of fire resistance do?
Liam: Halves.
Laura: The same thing?
Laura: Halves all fire damage?
Marisha: Halves all fire damage?
Laura: Okay.
Matt: All right. As the cluster of you begin stepping deeper into the caldera, you begin to approach the outskirts of the remnants of the Pyrah tribe's homestead. You can see where most of it has been either completely burnt to a cinder or lies tattered by some great force, shattered. And you start, as you're walking through, you can see where the landscape itself, all the jagged bits of black obsidian glass are shooting up out of the ground and there's broken pieces of the dark rock and volcanic material, and it isn't until your eyes begin to focus that you realize that elements of this rock is not rock at all but the twisted and charred remains of the Pyrah that didn't escape in time, blending in with the ground and landscape surrounding. The rest of the Ashari continue pushing forward, not taking notice, focused, as before you, you can see the rift, still blinking ever-bright, in the center of the remains of the Cindergrove. You steel yourselves.
Marisha: I turn and I look at them and nod and follow in my people's footsteps.
Matt: And that's where we'll end tonight's session.
Travis: Oh shit.
Laura: Oh shit.
Travis: Okay. We're cooking with gas now.
Laura: As Marisha collapses in a pool of tears.
Taliesin: Cry more, cry more!
Matt: You knew this was coming.
Laura: Yeah, man. You're going to have a headache tomorrow, dude.
Marisha: I'm so tired. I'm tired.
Laura: Aw, we've got exhaustion, Sam. That's balls.
Sam: Yeah, that's not great.
Liam: Thanks for tuning in to Therapy Thursday, everyone.
Travis: Where we take shits and talk to swords.
Laura: There you go.
Matt: Got a little bit of column A, little bit of column B, we got some drama, we got some personal issues, we got some reunions, we got some hardships, we got--
Taliesin: Wild animals.
Laura: Yeah, so many things!
Matt: And a travel method for Trinket.
Laura: Oh my god, I'm so excited about it!
Matt: I wasn't sure how you guys were going to use that one, as soon as you mentioned it I was like, all right, that's what they're doing. That's a way to do it. Yeah. Well cool, guys, we'll be back next week Thursday with Chris Hardwick, who will be joining us as a guest.
Laura: Yay!
Marisha: How is he going to be here?
Taliesin: As himself. He's going to be playing himself, it's going to be very exciting.
Travis: Guys, I'm a human. Usually.
Liam: I'm super busy, I'm super busy.
Taliesin: Out of the rift suddenly comes Chris Hardwick.
Marisha: Super busy, but I'm super successful.
Liam: I'll help save the world, but I got like 50 things on my schedule.
Matt: Yeah, so we'll be back then. I think April 21st is going to be our 50th episode. We're going to be doing a fun little evening there. We'll have Critmas coming up, probably end up being that night, maybe another night that week, we'll have details coming up soon, we're trying to figure out the schedule on that. This'll be our big 50th anniversary Critmas blowout, and then we're going to scale it back to like an annual-type event it looks like, both to save the people who work this channel Thursday nights and stay super later to get here, to save the length of the episodes, and to help all of us who have to then go to work sometimes very early the next morning.
Liam: We love you, but I need to sleep. It's as simple as that. We love you, and we love Critmas, but it's a health thing.
Matt: So what we'll be doing is this will be our big blowout Critmas, we'll still do it probably for the holidays, and we really implore you guys to give to charities, send us stuff, we still read them, we'll still do Periscopes, those of us who get gifts, some of us will open them on Periscope for you, so we'll still have the interaction, we'll have to do it on our own time and not at 11, midnight.
Travis: 12, 12 30.
Liam: 12 37.
Taliesin: On a 7AM call.
Matt: So this'll be our big general blowout. So if you're planning something for the next Critmas, this'll be the one to get it in for. But yeah, you can check out the guide to Critmas on Geek & Sundry, it has a list of all our supported charities if you want to give there. It's highly recommended. Thank you guys so much for those who donated to 826 tonight so we can go ahead and help out the Seattle branch.
Marisha: 826 Seattle! We love you.
Matt: And yeah. Do we have anything else?
All: Happy St. Patty's Day.
Laura: You guys are hopefully sitting at home being very good.
Liam: For fuck's sake, take an Uber.
Matt: All right, guys. Well, have a wonderful night, and is it Thursday yet? Bye!

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons, roll dice, and stuff. Tonight is a special episode; it's a special 50th episode. We've made 50 of these! To kick off the evening's festivities before the game, we want to show our first big present to you guys, something we've been working on for about a little over a month. We hope you guys enjoy it. Let's go ahead and have a look at the new full intro for Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: And welcome back, guys! (cheering)
Matt: That was fun! We've been silently working on that for a long time.
Marisha: It was so hard to keep secret.
Matt: I know. Every edit that came in was awesome. Yeah, we all went together in Simi Valley for a day and shot, and did wonderful photos, which we actually have wallpaper going up tonight!
Laura: That is correct. It'll be going up very soon.
Marisha: I guess I could go right--
Laura: Do it now, he just said it!
Liam: We're doing it live! We're doing it live.
Sam: We're releasing a special 50th episode wallpaper all for you guys to use on your home PCs.
Marisha: On the Critical Role Twitter and Facebook right now.
Sam: Download it!
Matt: There you go.
Marisha: Download it, @criticalrole.
Liam: Good, pressure's off.
Marisha: It's done.
Matt: It's all over. Episode's over. No, thank you guys for coming tonight. Hope you enjoyed that. We have some really awesome people that helped out with that. I'm going to go ahead and get some thank-yous here. We have, first off, a big thank you to Jan-Michael Losada, our DP for that shoot; Pamela Joy who did all the incredible photography, and Loretta Richert, both of them helped us find and secure the location and shot an incredible series of photos that we'll be using in upcoming episode releases and promotional stuff! So check that out. You guys have been amazing, thank you so much. Next up, I want to go ahead and thank Dave and James Codeglia who are from Ghostlight. They did all the special effects you see as well as the color grading and the editing. They did a phenomenal job on this, and big thanks to you guys. It's far more than I ever expected it could be. Ghostlight is awesome.
Travis: Are we cutting to that title camera so they can see the addresses?
Matt: Yeah. For makeup we want to thank Misti Dawn, Talor Bianca Appice, and Heather Galipo, they did an amazing job. And Travis, of course, for sitting in the makeup chair for a long time.
Travis: It was cold (laughs). It was real cold.
Marisha: Four hours! Specifically, Misti did a lot of our beauty makeup, Bianca did Travis, and Heather did all of our ears. Because ears take a lot of time!
Matt: You guys did an amazing job. Next up, for our illustrious costumers, we have Jessica Dru, who did an amazing job, Jessica Dru Johnson for selling me the costumes, Vanessa Walton, who made your wonderful headpiece--
Marisha: Yes, and she has an Etsy store, actually Creature of Habit on Etsy. So follow her on Instagram and of course you can go-- she makes all these amazing flower crowns; she's basically a real-life faerie.
Taliesin: It's a magical Instagram.
Marisha: It is a magical Instagram, Creature of Habit.
Matt: Check that out. And of course Bryan Forrest for both applying a lot of the armor to Pike and a lot of individuals here. He brought a lot of the great costume pieces and armor, and was one of our illustrious goblins; he got killed as two different goblins! Took two arrows, one in the face, one in the chest. A great stuntman, Bryan, thank you so much for helping out with that.
Marisha: Thank you Bryan, we love you!
Matt: Jon Enge who was our special effects supervisor on set and was the goblin who got stabbed in the back. He was amazing.
Marisha: And he's got a youtube channel, Mars Rising, which is great. And I did a Splinter Cell guards sketch that I did with him a while ago
Taliesin: He and I used to perform at the Ren Faire together, it was a thing.
Marisha: Oh! That's awesome; Jon's awesome. Go check his stuff out.
Liam: You worked at Ren Faire?
Taliesin: Oh, shut up. Suck it.
Travis: Lord Taliesin!
Matt: Of course, Jason Charles Miller, who's a friend of the show, who's been on the show as Garthok the half-orc rogue, did the new theme, as well as the old one, but he re-upped for the new theme, extending it and making it that much more epic. Thank you so much. And Geoff Bisente did a lot of the sound design on it as well. You guys kicked ass on making it sound as good as it did. Check out their stuff, they're amazing. I think Jason should have the actual new song up on iTunes soon in case you want it for a ringtone or something. And last but certainly not least, we have Avery Faeth, who did the amazing Percy costume.
Taliesin: My coat! She's an amazing coat designer. She's got a--
Marisha: She's a coat designer.
Taliesin: She did the coat, she's an amazing cosplayer and costume designer and you can find her on Sickhorse all over the place.
Matt: And Kai Norman, who you've seen on the show, he actually did our casts of the K'Varn horn, and his incredible work. He did Percy's gun. He did a number of the props we used for it, he's great. You can find him at @KommissarProps. Additional costuming done by Anne Valiant, who did an amazing job helping us out getting the costume pieces we needed for it. As well, a big shout-out to Labyrinth of Jared at Masquerade Ball who also helped provide a lot of the costumes for the shoot, and Sword and the Stone who helped provide a lot of the weaponry and armor, along with Bryan. So thank you guys, all of you so much, for helping make this happen. We're really excited and we hope you liked it!
Travis: Can you put the first one up again, because we didn't get the Pamela Joy title-- yeah. It's the only one we missed. They were so instrumental and did such a lovely job.
Laura: Yeah they did!
Marisha: And Pam did the photo of the wallpaper.
Laura: She's actually shot all of our photos from the very beginning. She's freaking amazing.
Travis: We have so much, you guys, so much.
Marisha: Go follow her on Instagram! She's great.
Matt: All right. So getting into our actual announcements here, try and cruise through this as fast as possible.
Sam: It's our special episode; I thought everyone was dressing up.
Laura: We're all wearing our shirts
Marisha: You're appropriate for Scanlan.
Sam: You all look like shit!
Liam: Sam, can I show you my snake? (oohing and aahing)
Travis: Bigger than I thought it'd be!
Matt: Strangely, he lost it for a few sessions.
Liam: This too shall pass.
Matt: All right, so  50th episode, guys! (cheering)
Matt: Can't believe we made it this far! And more to come. 50 more! Hopefully.
Liam: Hey look! Ashley's here!
Ashley: Hey! I just landed. Not landed in a plane, but just drove in.
Matt: Drove all across the country, from New York.
Ashley: From, yes. Drove in from New York.
Laura: So what does that mean, Ashley?
Ashley: I'm here for a little while. (cheering)
Marisha: She's back!
Ashley: I'm back for a little bit.
Travis: Yay, Pike!
Ashley: Probably for a couple months, a few months, we'll see. We're pushing it for a few months.
Marisha: That sounds better.
Ashley: I'm excited and I'm nervous, but I'm excited.
Travis: Yeah.
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: I'm so glad you could join us, and welcome back, Ashley.
Ashley: Thanks. Thank you.
Matt: Also tonight we're putting up for the next two weeks on pre-order a brand new set of "How Do You Want To Do This" hoodies, which I'm wearing here.
Laura: It's Alternative Apparel and it's super-duper-super-duper cozy inside.
Travis: Look at that! Look at that.
Ashley: That's so softy-puffy.
Marisha: They're super soft.
Laura: You could use it as a pillow, you could use it as a hoodie.
Ashley: You could wear it on a plane.
Sam: Where are all the other places they could wear it?
Ashley: On a train.
Laura: Dinner, you could wear it to dinner.
Taliesin: You could wear it in a boat!
Sam: With a goat?
Taliesin: You could put it on a goat.
Marisha: To Big Lots.
Taliesin: At work or on the go.
Liam: Keep this going all night long.
Matt: Two hours.
Sam: It's this content that you've demanded. (laughter)
Matt: So yeah, these are up on the store, or should be, and will be up for pre-order for the next two weeks. If you want one, get one! Because they're cool. I like them.
Travis: Yeah, we all have one.
Matt: Indeed. All right, next up, Critmas is tonight. So we got that coming up after the show.
Laura: Just a few packages.
Marisha: Yeah, just a few cartloads
Matt: We're going to do our best to keep it as organized and as expedient as possible so we can get to bed at a decent hour, especially those of us who have like 8:00am call times in the morning. Travis.
Travis: I'm going to stay as long as I can.
Matt: (laughs) But yeah, so stick around for that. You get to watch us all cry forever, because that's what happens every time.
Travis: Cry forever.
Matt: A couple other announcements  has here on the list "posters."
Travis: Posters?
Liam: Posters?
Sam: Posters?
Matt: Posters. Somebody must've put that on the list.
Liam: Maybe later.
Sam: What's a poster?
Liam: There's four of them on a bed.
Matt: There you go, that makes sense.
Taliesin: If somebody says they're one thing but really they're just not all that.
Matt: That makes sense. Quick announcement, an event coming up: a convention on May 26 to 29 in Atlanta called MomoCon. I will be a guest at that, so all you east coast folks around Atlanta come say hello! I have panels, and talks, and autographs to give, and cool artwork you can pick up. So yeah, MomoCon, May 26-29, hope to see you guys there. Me and Marisha are both announced to be guests at the Haven Expo in Mackay, Australia on July 2nd, so all you folks in the outback, you'll want to come hang out with me and Marisha at the beginning of July.
Ashley: (Australian accent) In the outback!
Matt: Just like that.
Ashley: (accented) Going to get a bloomin' onion?
Matt: I'm so sorry.
Laura: I'm sure they're really thrilled about that.
Matt: She's back for ten minutes, guys.
Ashley: I know a lot of Australians.
Sam: You've already offended an entire continent.
Matt: You and Johnny Depp in the same week, come on. So yeah, hopefully we're looking forward to seeing a bunch of you guys down under at the beginning of July. Let's see, reveal secret Scientology message and ascend to Xenu, that's on the list. We got that one situated.
Taliesin: Who put this one together?
Matt: Rat Queens! The next Rat Queens issue coming up. 16, I guess? Issue 16 is the number? Has a series of pages in which all of Vox Machina have a wonderful cameo.
Sam: It's amazing. We're in a comic book. We did it.
Taliesin: Has that not publicly been seen yet, is that not out yet?
Sam: Some pictures have been, but not all of it.
Marisha: We have transcended, you guys.
Taliesin: We are fiction now.
Ashley: That's so crazy.
Matt: Yeah. Isn't it? One more thing I want to mention: a really great game called Masquerada; I play the lead character, Cicero Gavar. It's been developed by a great studio named Witching Hour. They put up a Kickstarter today to see if they can make the game as good as it possibly can be-- that final push. As an independent/indie studio and an indie product, they're putting out a phenomenal isometric RPG. Great voice talent that includes Jennifer Hale, Dave Fennoy, it's a great cast. Check it out on Kickstarter if it's something you think you'd be interested in, and possibly helping them polish it and make it phenomenal. So check that out. Anything else you guys want to announce?
Liam: Yeah! Can I get a CritRole?
All: CritRole!
Liam: Boy, I always love sitting at the table with my dice and having a nice cozy wooden box to keep my dice in. Wyrmwood Gaming makes all kinds of wooden boxes to hold your dice in. We have them here, we have all kinds. There's these, there's these-- they hold dice!
Sam: Those seem really remarkable, Liam.
Ashley: Wait, what is this one?
Sam: Is there anything any bigger?
Liam: In due time.
Liam: Wyrmwood Gaming, you know them already because we talk about them non-stop, friend of the show. If you use the code CritRole, you'll get free shipping. Also Wyrmwood Gaming has a kickstarter up this month for their Sentinel box, which holds--
All: Ooh!
Ashley: What is this?
Liam: It holds your cards, it holds your dice, there's a bluetooth doohickey in it so you'll never lose your box with dice and cards. And you can get all kinds of woods, there's all kinds of tiers, you can get the Critical Role logo etched into any kind of box that they have. And if you want to go full wizard you can get the shnazzy Masterworks box, did I get that right?
Laura: It is masterworks.
Ashley: I want that one!
Travis: I think that's one of the Vestiges.
Liam: So, check it out. Wyrmwood Gaming, they got a Kickstarter, they got a website. They're our good buddies.
Matt: All right. So, anything else anyone wants to talk about or mention?
Marisha: I mean.
Matt: Because if not, I think we may have to watch that intro again. (cheering)
Travis: Yeah, yeah, do it again! Do that shit again, please!
Matt: Let's watch that intro again. [dramatic music]
Matt: And welcome back. I remember writing the script for that and going, "We're going to have to cut all this." And then we didn't. I'm so happy how it turned out.
Marisha: Mainly because we ran out of time.
Matt: Like, "Well, we got to do it. Make it work."
Taliesin: "There's no time to do anything else, other than this."
Matt: "We can't cut the tentacle creature. I don't know how we'll do it, but it's in there." Let's go ahead and bring us back into the realm of Exandria and catch us up to what happened last time. Vox Machina, a group of adventurers currently on the path to try and usurp and destroy the Chroma Conclave, a collection of chromatic dragons that have torn through Tal'Dorei and currently reign supreme over the partially ruined cities that dot the landscape. The largest of them, and apparently the leader, Thordak the Cinder King sitting in the main city of Emon, forcing you guys to flee. You've gone about and discovered these artifacts, these legendary items known as the Vestiges of Divergence. Ancient magical weapons and equipment from the last great war, the Divergence. And these seem to be a key in which you can ascertain a level of power and a means of destroying these creatures. Upon seeking information about these, you traveled south to the Frostweald, where you battled a camp of orcs, freeing survivors from Westruun's attack, and managed to walk your way into the deep den of a forgotten Ioun temple where Osysa, the sphinx's mate, resides. After traversing past traps and puzzles you made your way to the main chamber in which the nameless sphinx demanded you reveal that you have earned its name. During this battle you traveled through portals to other elemental realms to seek out the information to hopefully devise the title of this sphinx before it was too late. During which, Grog leapt through, if I recall, one of these portals into the Elemental Plane of Air. Set adrift without a means of returning, he took his Chain of Returning, attached it to Craven Edge, and threw it through the portal. It found purchase and you pulled yourself through, face-to-face with Pike, with the blade embedded in her abdomen. The weapon, which had achieved its maximum strength potential of devouring the essence of others, transformed during this battle and has been in its rather intense and dangerous form since. You guys managed to piece together the name of this sphinx, at which point the battle ended and it presented to you the information you required. It gave you the information of the Vestiges that still exist, to its knowledge, and you were escorted via immediate sandstorm out of the temple and now stand at the edge of the Stormcrest Mountains and the Frostweald Forest itself. So. You all take a moment to gather your thoughts, think over what just transpired, and think on your next course of action.
Laura: Well, I want that bow. (laughs)
Marisha: I heard a few things that seemed very desireable.
Liam: How is Pike?
Sam: Yeah, Pike, are you alive?
Ashley: I-- yes. (laughter)
Laura: He healed us all up before we left, right?
Ashley: He healed us. Yes, I'm fine! I'm fine.
Matt: Well, not completely, you guys healed from a couple of spells that were cast at the time, but you haven't had a rest.
Marisha: But some of us are still older, right?
Matt: Indeed.
Liam: Is your stomach closed?
Laura: Yeah?
Matt: You go and inspect the armor itself, the plates that separated and scraped from the impact of Craven Edge's blade. The wound itself seems to have at least stopped bleeding as part of the healing magic and the wound has closed, though you're still in a relatively damaged state post-battle. You guys haven't had really a moment to recover and heal what you could. She seems to be okay. There's still that lingering sweat from the stress and the impact of the blade, but nothing seems to be mortally endangered about her current state.
Liam: Do you need a moment, do you need to speak to Sarenrae?
Ashley: I think I'm okay. Do I know what hit points I'm at?
Matt: Yes. You're at 63.
Ashley: I'm doing okay.
Laura: What time is it?
Matt: Right now, from the time it took you guys to go through the temple and the strangeness that is the shift of time around the temple, it's probably mid-day. Pretty much the same time you entered the temple.
Marisha: Weird.
Travis: I'm really sorry about that.
Ashley: Hey, it's okay, Grog. I know you didn't mean to.
Travis: No. No, I didn't. I was floating away, you should've seen the inside. It was wind everywhere.
Ashley: It sounds pretty crazy.
Travis: Yeah. And I was like, what would my buddy Pike do? She would take the sword and attach the chain to it and throw it through the door! And then you were there!
Ashley: It's okay, Grog! I'll be fine.
Travis: Yeah, but you're my best buddy!
Ashley: Oh, Grog.
Travis: Do you want one of my healing potions, are you sure you're all right?
Ashley: I'm going to be okay, I'm going to be okay. I think if we just-- (laughs) I'm excited to see you guys. (laughter)
Ashley: I'm going to be okay, I'm going to be okay.
Travis: Yeah!
Ashley: Are we taking a rest? I don't know how many--
Laura: It's mid-day!
Taliesin: I think a short rest would not be a bad idea.
Marisha: I don't think this is actually the time of day, I don't think nature works the same around this temple.
Travis: What do you mean? It's magic time of day?
Marisha: Kind of, but it's always magic time of day.
Laura: So maybe we should hang out in the mouth of the cave and take a short rest
Marisha: I'm all right with that.
Laura: Yes?
Ashley: I would be okay with that.
Matt: Ashley, you've used a 5th-level spell. How many 4th-level spells do you have, because you used two I believe?
Ashley: Three 4th-level.
Matt: So you have one left.
Laura: Maybe we should take a long rest.
Marisha: We could try and hoof it home.
Taliesin: I think we start moving in that direction and when nightfall comes we make camp.
Travis: Towards the campsite?
Laura: Unless I was healed, and I don't remember being healed, I'm at 11 health points. So I'm feeling a little sore.
Ashley: Oh gosh!
Sam: He only healed a couple of us.
Marisha: I thought she was the one that he--
Laura: He healed me back to my age.
Matt: Yeah, the aging effect was restored, but only to her. The rest of you are still aged up based on the effect of the lair of the sphinx.
Marisha: That's something we're going to have to Restoration away.
Travis: Please, I'm handsome as fuck right now, come on.
Laura: Did you get aged?
Travis: Like a fine wine. Yeah, I got aged.
Ashley: Can you do Greater Restoration on a group?
Matt: No, on an individual each time.
Ashley: Who is the oldest?
Travis: Well, she was.
Laura: I was and he healed me.
Liam: Typically Scanlan is the oldest, but I've been aged the most maybe.
Laura: He's really fucking old right now. Look at all those wrinkles.
Ashley: How old are you?
Laura: His ears are starting to droop!
Matt: If I recall, you aged close to roughly 20 to 25 years.
Ashley: You look like a fine wine, you just got better with age.
Liam: I knew that this was coming, I just thought I had more years until it happened.
Ashley: They gray looks great on you, the salt and pepper hair.
Marisha: You should really look at this as a nice peek into the future. It's not bad.
Liam: Yeah, so--
Ashley: Would you like to be younger?
Travis: Young again?
Ashley: Would you like to be young again?
Liam: It's probably a good idea.
Laura: Are you sure you want to do it, Pike, are you sure?
Liam: You could do it tomorrow, could you take care of my sister first, Pike?
Ashley: Yes. We need to get you into better order, okay? All right, where we at here?
Travis: Oh, I don't cast that.
Liam: Give her the works.
Marisha: So, we are taking a short rest? I'm going to burn a couple of hit dice.
Laura: Shorty rest and then we'll walk.
Matt: Everyone taking a short rest?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: Yes?
Travis: (emphatically) Yes.
Ashley: I'm going to heal her up.
Laura: I mean, I could roll my own hit dice.
Ashley: No, no, it's my job.
Travis: So I lose all the buffs, right?
Matt: Here's what happens. So as you guys are taking a rest, you step a little bit away from the group, sit down and hold the blade. Chain's still attached across your lap. Just look down at it and you can see it's still pulsing with the power of all the life energy that it'd taken before. And as you take a moment, see to your wounds, relax, recover from the intense rage and all the emotional pain that's transpired here, the blade begins to shrink. You hear the slight crackle (squeal) as the metal begins to creak and pull backward, all the jagged edges pulling into the central singular curved blade at the front of it. As it hits, it seems to almost shrink slightly smaller than it was before and the metal creaks for a second and a voice in your head goes, (breathes heavily) "Hungry--" Make a constitution saving throw.
Sam: Oh shit. Now it's going to steal his strength.
Travis: Natural 20.
Marisha: What?
Liam: Eat it, sword.
Matt: For but a moment, you sense a very similar feeling, one that-- it's been really since the battle with K'Varn when all of the light in the world vanished for a second and darkness took your consciousness, and that same cold sensation starts to stem from the blade itself like it's actually trying to pull you into it, and you resist it. And you stand there and look at the blade and it just-- in comparison to its larger form, it looks small. It's the same size it was since you originally got it, but you look at it there in this long, still silence as you try and conjecture what just transpired. And in that silence you hear the voice once again go, "Feed. Now."
Travis: I don't have anything to feed you.
Matt: "Find something."
Travis: (exhales) All right, all right, all right. What?
Laura: Who you talking to, Grog?
Travis: I'm so hungry. My stomach's rumbling.
Sam: Don't we have our cold pack of food?
Marisha: We do and we have some boar meat.
Laura: Yeah, sure.
Ashley: Or some chicken?
Laura: Yeah I did, I think I did take quite a bit of chicken.
Sam: Love me some chicken.
Matt: As you open the freezer chest there's a (poof) of chicken-scented smoke and mist that vanishes.
Laura: Aw, the chicken, we can't take it. That's okay, I've got boar meat. Do you want to feed your stomach the boar meat?
Travis: What? My stomach?
Ashley: Yeah, are you hungry?
Travis: Yeah, I would not turn down some delicious boar.
Laura: I'll mark it down to half the boar meat is gone now, you guys.
Sam: Wow, he's a big eater. That was a lot. That was a whole boar.
Laura: Well, he's a big guy.
Liam: You're a good hunter, though, it's not really--
Laura: That's right. Well?
Taliesin: We can find some more boar if we have to.
Sam: If we're rested, are we going to set off again?
Matt: You guys can use your hit dice if you want to, to heal up.
Travis: Do I get a level of exhaustion back or no? Long rest?
Matt: No, long rest for your exhaustion.
Travis: Fuck!
Ashley: So short rest means--
Liam: That sword is an asshole.
Sam: Be honest.
Travis: That should've been at disadvantage.
Taliesin: Yeah, should've been at disadvantage.
Matt: Roll again.
Marisha: Oh fuck! No!
Taliesin: Do it!
Laura: You have to roll again?
Sam: He's exhausted.
Ashley: Fuck!
Marisha: No! You're lying!
Sam: What is it?
Taliesin: It's a one. He rolled a one.
Liam: (high-pitched) What are the odds?
Travis: 5% both times.
Liam: Everybody roll for initiative
Laura: No joke, though!
Matt: As you guys finish your rest, and you're all gathering the next stage of your advancement, you watch as Grog stands up and starts walking into the snow of the forest with the blade out, topples and falls to one knee, then falls face-first in the snow.
Sam: (yells)
Ashley: Grog? I run over to him.
Laura: We all run out.
Sam: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Matt: He's still, he's cold, there are no signs of life.
Liam: Roll him over, roll him over! Grog!
Laura: I slap him across the face.
Liam: Yeah. Punch him across the face. Grog! Pike?
Sam: Heal, heal, heal!
Ashley: I grab the sword and I take it off of his-- away from him, off of his person.
Matt: Okay, you pull the blade and you take it and you shove it off, and the chain's still attached to the side of his arm. You have to pull-- make a strength check.
Liam: Use those gauntlets.
Laura: Oh yeah, 19!
Ashley: What do I-- roll the 20?
Matt: And add four to it.
Ashley: 11?
Matt: 11, that's enough. You (clink) and you pull the chain off the side of his forearm, toss the blade and it (scrapes) skids to a stop in the snow, cutting a shallow swath through the little bit of the embankment. Grog's still rolled on his back, eyes just dead, lifeless.
Ashley: Okay.
Marisha: Pike is it the sword, is it the sword?
Ashley: I feel like it's the sword, I mean we all know that sword has been weird.
Laura: Can you Greater Restoration him?
Ashley: Yes, I'll Greater Restoration on Grog.
Marisha: While she does Greater Restoration, I want to go over and--
Liam: Break it.
Laura: Don't break it!
Marisha: -- grab the sword and see-- yeah, actually, can I do like a--
Sam: Don't--
Marisha: What?
Sam: Don't break it.
Marisha: Why not?!
Sam: His soul could be inside of it
Laura: What do you mean, his soul could be inside of it?
Sam: I touched the sword, it spoke to me, it craves strength from other beings
Marisha: Wait, what do you mean it spoke to you?
Matt: Here's my question to you, Pike. What spells do you have?
Ashley: Okay, so short rest--
Matt: Short rest doesn't give you any spells back. What level spells do you have still?
Ashley: I have a 5th-level. I have one 5th-level, which is Greater Restoration.
Matt: Right, you have Greater Restoration as an option there. What other spells do you have prepared?
Ashley: Aw, shit. I mean, Cure Wounds? No, that's not going to do anything.
Matt: Because from your knowledge and experience, Greater Restoration removes serious curses, it removes avenues--
Ashley: But wouldn't that be--?
Matt: Grog, though you are having a hard time coming to terms with it, in the back of your head there's a part of you that knows that right now, Grog in the snow is dead.
Ashley: Oh no!
Liam: Where can we take him, where can we take him?
Laura: How can he be, how can he be dead?
Liam: Can we take him to Gilmore, can we take him to--?
Marisha: Scanlan, what should I do with this sword?
Sam: Don't break it.
Marisha: Should I cast something through it to try and purge whatever it is out of it?
Sam: You could try to do Greater Restoration on the sword to see if that would somehow free the soul from it or--
Marisha: I can do like a Sunbeam spell, that's like a light spell.
Liam: Who could we take him to, could we tree to Gilmore?
Laura: He wouldn't know anything about these-- Can we go back in?
Marisha: I didn't bring anything because we decided to hoof it.
Laura: What about going back to Kamal?
Marisha: I didn't bring a transportation spell because we decided to walk.
Laura: No, but he's right inside the cave, what if he knows things? The sphinx!
Sam: The sphinx-- yeah. We could go to the sphinx.
Ashley: I have Heal, I have one 6th-level.
Matt: Heal? Heal restores damage or damaged flesh to living entities.
Laura: Me and Scanlan go back into the cave and search for Kamal again.
Taliesin: I'm grabbing the sword and taking it to a corner and I'm going to stare at it for a second.
Matt: Okay. What are you doing, you're going to...?
Laura: Me and Scanlan take flight and we go back in and we try to find Kamal again.
Matt: Okay. You guys cruise into the cavern and as you sit inside where the stairs were that led into the temple, it's solid stone.
Laura: Shit!
Matt: There's no sign of an entrance whatsoever to this temple.
Ashley: Wait, wait. I have Revivify!
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Learned?
Ashley: Yes. Yes yes yes yes yes.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Has it been enough time?
Ashley: You touch a creature that has died--
Matt: Within the last minute.
Laura: Has it been a minute? He just did it, it just happened!
Taliesin: It's barely been a minute of real time.
Laura: We just ran over!
Ashley: I wasn't even looking at my 3rd-levels.
Matt: Ashley, go ahead and roll an initiative check.
Ashley: Oh, goodness. Okay.
Taliesin: Can I assist with a whisper to the sword?
Matt: Sure.
Sam: Can I inspire her?
Matt: Sure.
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: You do first.
Sam: I just hold her hand and I look in her eyes and I just say, "Please, Pike, please. Please. I love him as much as you do. Please."
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: Take your d10, and if you want to go ahead and use that now or make this as part of the resurrection ritual, which we're now undergoing.
Laura: Oh my god.
Ashley: Can I do this first? Just to see if it works?
Matt: Well, what'd you roll for your initiative?
Ashley: 14.
Matt: 14, okay. You get to his body and his back rolled in the snow looking up, just as that window of time begins to fade for the magic to have any effect. You reach down and you grasp his cold-muscled chest and you find the one singular thread, that little soul thread that's still connected to the essence of his eternal being that once resided within this corpse and you clutch onto it with the magic and hold on to it to begin this ritual. Who wishes to bring something to this ritual? You have hold of the thread right now, you need something stronger to keep him here.
Laura: Is that stupid? (laughs anxiously)
Taliesin: No! It's not stupid!
Laura: Okay, okay. Then I reach into the Bag of Holding and I get out Grog's cask of ale.
Matt: Okay. And--? And what do you do with it?
Laura: Okay. I pour a little in his mouth. Just a little bit, so he doesn't choke.
Matt: (laughing) You reach over and you grab the edge of his beard and pull his mouth open, it's hanging limply. You pull off the cork of the cask and begin pouring it and it spills down the side into the snow, darkening it on the sides of his head.
Laura: I turn his head so he doesn't drown in it.
Matt: Understood. Make a persuasion roll.
Laura: This is so stressful. 16?
Matt: Okay. The ale seems to slide back into the throat and find its way in towards the stomach. There is no swallowing motion whatsoever, but it appears that at least it's not drowning him or blocking his airway. You're clutching onto the spirit here. You only have a few moments left before the magic is lost. Who wishes to--
Liam: While that's going on I walk off 30 feet away and I fall to my knees on the ground facing away. I know you are not what I want. But you are what we need. And I will put aside my reservations and serve you. It is too soon for him, we need him. He is needed. I will set aside my reservations and serve you. Please.
Matt: Go ahead and roll a religion check.
Liam: 15.
Matt: 15. As you're looking up into the frozen boughs of the trees before you, a little bit of snow begins to fall from what was once the still air. It begins to dot the top of your face and touch your nose, and as the first cold singular snowflake hits, your vision goes dark again. In that darkness, you feel your breath go cold as well, and your whole body is locked in place like it can't move. And all you see is the white porcelain face of the Raven Queen step out of the darkness as her hand comes up and touches the side of your cheek. And a voice in your head, a familiar voice, says, "I believe that every death has its place." And the hand lets go and pulls back. Who wishes to make the third and final aid to this ritual?
Sam: Have I already aided by inspiring Pike?
Matt: Well, if Pike wants to go ahead and make a roll of some sort of attempt at this, that would help as Bardic Inspiration.
Sam: But I can't help again?
Matt: If you wish to do your own thing, you can.
Ashley: Just for extra, yeah.
Sam: The sword seems to want power and strength. I don't know if it will help, but maybe if we gave Grog some extra strength it might help him to come back, so. I have a Potion of Fire Giant Strength.
Marisha: I could cast an Enhance Ability spell.
Sam: He has no abilities now, though.
Marisha: That's true.
Sam: So I'm going to pour this Potion of Fire Giant Strength into his gullet.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Hope it gives him some sort of strength.
Matt: Go ahead and make an arcana check.
Sam: Okay. 18.
Matt: 18, okay. As you pour the potion into his throat, the somewhat thick red and yellowish compound that drips from it like a thicker molasses finds its way, mingling with the ale currently in his gullet. You help try and massage it down, like feeding a pill to a dog. As you do, you can see the veins around the shoulders instinctually affected by this, as the flesh itself, you know, the cells are still alive. It's just the nervous system and all else that the lights are currently out on. You hope this is enough. And as you hold onto that singular thread of Grog's existence--
Laura: He's taking a picture
Marisha: Why is he taking a picture?
Sam: Because it's not good.
Taliesin: Because he's a terrible person, that's why he's taking a picture.
Marisha: It's either really good or really bad.
Laura: I know, yeah, it's either really good or really bad.
Travis: I can't hide.
Laura: Matthew!
Marisha: This is bullshit.
Matt: As you're certainly staring at the sword--
Taliesin: I was going to say something to it.
Matt: What do you say to it?
Taliesin: If I were you, I'd put it back. Or else it will be the last meal you ever eat, because I will find an abyss so deep and so far you will never taste a drop of blood again. And I'm not touching it. I touched it and put it down and let go and said that to it.
Matt: The shadow begins to bleed from the blade and rise up and it seems almost like an incensed fury from your words. However, you also hear a raging scream bellow from inside the blade. A familiar yell echoing in distant (roars).
Taliesin: I'll start summoning my own fucking mist, man, I'm not fucking intimidated by this shit.
Matt: Your shadow begins to rise over your back as well. As it begins to coalesce, these two black centers of dark energy facing off in wordless anger and lack of understanding, the arm of Grog's body grabs you by the throat and starts clutching as it sits up and looks you in the face, eyes red with rage, going (growl). Roll a strength check.
Laura: Oh my god!
Sam: Strength check?! He's got 25 strength now!
Travis: Disadvantage still?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: He's going to crush my neck.
Travis: 11.
Matt: 11. He manages to close off the windpipe just for a short moment, but in that time the red fades from his eyes and the first inhale of breath (gasps) comes into Grog's chest, and your vision clears. And the moment of confusion hits you as you look around and notice this tiny gnome in your grip, head beet-red as you notice that your thumbs are pressed into his larynx.
Travis: No, no. No. (clears throat) What'd you do to me?
Sam: (gasps) Nothing.
Laura: What the fuck is that sword, Grog?
Sam: Gave you some ale.
Sam: What's with you and gnomes today, man?
Travis: I like gnomes, I don't know! What? Why am I down here?
Marisha: Are we sure it's him? Scanlan? Percy? Percy, are we sure?
Sam: Nope! I'm not sure. I'll do a perception check to see if it's--
Marisha: Can I also do an insight check? Can I assist him or make an insight as well?
Matt: You can make your own insight check.
Sam: 17.
Marisha: Sorry. 23.
Laura: What?
Taliesin: I love a whisper.
Liam: I don't.
Laura: How come he's getting a whisper and you're not getting a whisper? Hey, you guys (sobbing) check out those "How Do You Want to do This" hoodies-- (laughter)
Taliesin: I want to do this with great pain and sadness.
Ashley: This is so stressful!
Laura: Oh my god, you came back and Grog died!
Ashley: I want to go back!
Matt: He rolled a 20, then he rolled a one.
Travis: I did my classic ten-minutes-later remembering-the-rules shit.
Matt: That's right, because you got the third point at the end of that battle because you frenzied for that last fight.
Marisha: Grog! How many fingers am I holding up?
Liam: Six.
Travis: Nine!
Marisha: I think it's him. All right.
Sam: Oh my god.
Laura: Grog, you died!
Ashley: You fell over dead!
Marisha: How many more of us are going to die?!
Travis: No, I didn't. No.
Laura: Yes. You did.
Travis: What, when?
Laura: Pike saved you. Pike brought you back.
Sam: Where's your sword, Grog?
Travis: My sword is-- where is my sword?
Sam: Yeah, exactly.
Ashley: It's not your sword anymore.
Travis: What do you mean?! Wait, wait. Where is my-- where's Craven Edge?
Matt: You sit up and glance over, and you see about 15 feet from you, set up against the bottom of a tree, the blade is currently being crouched over by Percy, his fingers tense, his shoulders and back arched and locked, and you see two shadow sources that are almost on their own subtle plane having a staredown.
Laura: Shit.
Travis: Hey! Hey, Percy! Percy!
Taliesin: Little busy.
Marisha: Do you want to explain this, Grog?
Laura: Can we see what's going on?
Matt: You guys look over and you see this happening, yeah.
Travis: Well, I mean he's obviously messing with other people's property! And I walk over to the sword.
Marisha: No, no, no!
Laura: I run over and I block it. I stand next to Percy and I block the sword.
Travis: What?
Ashley: Yeah, I walk over and I stop Grog.
Liam: I'm pulling out daggers and standing behind my sister. Grog. Grog, let it go.
Travis: Let what--
Liam: This has been something on the tip of our tongue for weeks. Let it go. Whatever that thing is, it's fucked. Let it go!
Travis: But it's my sword.
Marisha: It was never your sword, was it, Grog?
Travis: I mean, Percy gave it to me, but it's mine.
Laura: Percy gave it to you?
Sam: Yeah. Yeah, he let him have it.
Travis: Yeah, we traded. Fair and square.
Liam: What did you say?
Taliesin: Little busy.
Liam: Scanlan, what?
Sam: Grog, listen, when I experienced the sword, it was pretty cool, and it is a powerful, powerful weapon, but after seeing what it's just done to you, I don't think you can have it, man.
Travis: I'm still a bit fuzzy. Like I mean, you know, we fought the sphinx, it got super-gnarly, and then we took a little rest and you-- did you see it shrunk?
Laura: Grog! The sword pulled you into it! You were dead, your soul was with whatever the fuck is in there now.
Travis: Well, how did I get out of there?
Laura: Pike saved you.
Ashley: We brought you back!
Sam: We? It was you, Pike.
Travis: Oh, like just now?
Ashley: It was a group effort!
Travis: Why do I taste ale, and whiskey?
Ashley: Because she gave you a little to bring you back!
Travis: I mean, I didn't know if I'd thrown up in my mouth, and like swallowed it.
Matt: The shadow has now rescinded into the blade.
Taliesin: Keyleth?
Marisha: Yes, Percy?
Taliesin: I'm debating whether or not to touch the sword. And I'm debating whether or not you should touch the sword.
Laura: Nobody should touch the sword, Percy.
Taliesin: We have to move it.
Sam: I've touched it before and it was fine. I can touch it again.
Ashley: Well, I could try to--
Laura: I feel like it's going to try and suck anybody in right now.
Marisha: Well, what should we do with it? We should get rid of it?
Travis: Look, guys, I can carry it at least.
Laura: No.
Ashley: No! You're not going to touch it again!
Taliesin: It's a bad deal.
Liam: Put it in the Bag of Holding and give the Bag of Holding to Pike.
Marisha: Wait, no, we're not putting that in the Bag of Holding. That sounds like a terrible idea. However, let me read something really fast.
Laura: Can we talk to it? I mean, can we see what it is?
Matt: I mean, you see a blade before you.
Laura: The shadow's not there anymore?
Matt: The shadow's pulled back into the blade.
Ashley: Percy, what did you get from it?
Laura: I mean, what did it sound like?
Sam: It sounded evil.
Travis: Well, now, that's really judgmental.
Sam: And also awesomely powerful.
Travis: Yeah.
Ashley: What were you going to say, Vax?
Liam: de Rolo knew about this. That's perfectly clear. You knew about this too, Scanlan?
Sam: I didn't know what it was. And I wasn't alone in this; I had asked Pike to weigh in and she was thinking about it. Doing more research.
Ashley: That's true.
Marisha: Pike knew about it as well? Wait, how many people knew about this?
Travis: Yeah! Only four of us. Look, it's been a great ally!
Laura: Four out of seven!
Sam: Vax, I assume you have secrets you haven't told us.
Laura: He has a third testicle. It's out. There, I said it!
Liam: That's a great time for a joke. That's a great time for a joke.
Taliesin: Best time for a joke.
Sam: The weird part is it's not in his crotch area.
Ashley: I could try casting Greater Restoration on the sword.
Marisha: I might be able to Banish it.
Taliesin: Can you do that?
Travis: Well, that's a bit strong, don't you think?
Sam: And that's only for a minute.
Marisha: No, I can do a more permanent version of that. I've never tried it before. And it's a 7th-level spell.
Travis: Look, look! Okay. Look, if you get bucked off a horse, right? You don't kill the horse, you just train it up a bit. Let's just work with the sword.
Laura: Horses don't try to steal your soul, Grog.
Liam: Who owned the sword before you had it? Who?
Travis: Ah. Well.
Liam: Find it on the ground?
Laura: Oh. It was Lord Briarwood.
Liam: It's very familiar, that's right. It belonged to the arch-vampire who we fucked up.
Travis: Yeah. Right.
Marisha: And I hate to be the one to point it out, but I feel like you've been almost a little bit more brutal than you usually are here lately, which is almost impressive.
Taliesin: Grog, I'm going to make you a deal. We're going to deal with this as a family, and we're going to get you something much nicer.
Marisha: It just killed you.
Taliesin: Right away. We're going to replace it with something a little less complicated.
Laura: Maybe some bone knuckles? I hear those are pretty badass.
Travis: Bone?
Laura: Giant's bone?
Travis: Titanstone?
Marisha: Maybe a family heirloom?
Taliesin: Perhaps it's time to be a better badass.
Sam: Does, DM, does Suggestion last forever or just for a little amount of time?
Matt: Suggestion, I think it lasts for a short time.
Marisha: I can attempt to Plane Shift this into another dimension.
Laura: No, how about we just wrap it in fabric. No?
Travis: Well look, hey, look, all right, fine, look, I won't touch it. But can we like at least figure out what it was doing? Lord Briarwood had it, I asked it a few questions, like if it knew Vecna. And we just got to see it level up a little bit.
Marisha: What all has it told you, Grog?
Travis: It's always hungry, right, so it likes to be, it likes what I do--
Ashley: Grog!
Travis: What? What, I'm hungry too!
Liam: Show of hands. Who here is uncomfortable with that piece of shit?
Ashley: I mean, it stabbed me, so yeah, I'm uncomfortable.
Travis: I said I was sorry, I really--
Ashley: It's okay. It's not your fault.
Laura: But I do think that whatever it is might know something.
Marisha: Well, Grog said he's been talking to it, which makes--
Taliesin: You don't want to interrogate it, because if we interrogate it we're going to have to make a deal.
Liam: You have to choose between this group and that sword.
Travis: Oh, well I choose the group, I mean, I voted I was uncomfortable as well.
Liam: So what are we arguing about?
Travis: Well, I don't just want to destroy it.
Marisha: It served its purpose. You got its fair use. You got your money's worth, which was free.
Travis: Yeah, but I could use it on Kevdak.
Taliesin: It can use you on Kevdak.
Laura: Do not use it against Kevdak. You don't want something making your strength unnatural when you fight your new foe.
Travis: Well look, the last I remember was it said it was hungry. If it gets hungry again, I'll just give it something to eat.
Marisha: Like one of us?
Travis: No, like my thigh or something.
Laura: You'll chop off your own leg--
Travis: No, I would just stab it.
Marisha: You want to sacrifice your own leg for a sword?
Travis: Kevdak has the Titanstone Knuckles. It's a Vestige that we're looking for, right? It's going to be a hell of a fight, and this is a hell of a sword.
Laura: He's got a Vestige. He's still just him.
Liam: The sword just fucking killed you, you dummy!
Marisha: And you were far powerful before the sword. You killed Lord Briarwood without the sword.
Laura: That's right.
Marisha: The sword didn't make you Grog.
Travis: All right, hold on, Pike. Look. If we're going back to Kevdak. You know I'm not scared of death, right? I would die by a dragon, I would die by a beholder, and I wouldn't care, as long as it was a beautiful death. But I don't want to die from Kevdak. Not him.
Ashley: We'll find you a better weapon. I don't want you to die from something that's not worth it.
Travis: All right. Fine. Do what you want with it. I don't need it.
Taliesin: What do you think we should do with it?
Ashley: We'll find you something strong.
Travis: This is an empty cup.
Taliesin: Oh, we've already poured it into your mouth.
Laura: No, there's a little left in the cask, here. Here's your cask.
Travis: I throw the cup away and just take the cask.
Marisha: All right. Should I attempt to banish this thing forever?
Sam: You can banish something forever?
Marisha: It's called Plane Shift, I can shift it into its own little pocket dimension where it'll stay and nothing else can get to it.
Taliesin: I think I'm perfectly content with it being someone else's problem.
Marisha: All right.
Taliesin: I'm staring hard to make sure it's not going to fight this.
Marisha: So looking at Plane Shift, it says you can use this spell to banish an unwilling creature to another plane. But I can also transport eight willing creatures, so can I hold the sword and attempt to Plane Shift it away?
Matt: I don't see why you would not be able to do that to an object, honestly. Especially based on the power of the spell. Where would you want to banish it to?
Marisha: Ooh. Ooh! Ooh!
Liam: Newark.
Marisha: The pocket dimension of the green-eyed boy. The golden-eyed boy.
Matt: Oh!
Laura: The Dread Emperor that we already killed.
Marisha: Yes, it was empty, it was his own dimension and he's dead.
Matt: It was the Dread Emperor.
Taliesin: Well, let's think about this.
Marisha: What?
Sam: What else lives there?
Marisha: Nothing.
Liam: It was an island with child labor, it's full-circle for Keyleth.
Taliesin: I'm going to suggest something that's going to sound a little iffy, but I swear to god I'm being clever. Send it somewhere where it will be content. Let's not anger something. Where do we send vampires?
Marisha: I could easily send it to one of the Nine Hells, where I'm sure someone would be very happy with the new gift they just found.
Laura: No! Somebody could use it.
Marisha: Exactly.
Taliesin: But they would be using it in the Nine Hells. And it's going--
Marisha: Yes, but you forget that all these planes cross over. We have fought many a demon.
Liam: I don't want to send it to the Hells.
Travis: Can I make like one little suggestion that doesn't involve it coming back to me? I had a thought that since Lord Briarwood had it before, that every time it killed it might've been sending that life back to Vecna? But I don't have any proof of that, you know, I just remember being in that room with all the bodies, with the little sphere of-- the little dough button in the middle of the room.
Sam: We could throw it in the sphere.
Laura: No.
Taliesin: No. That might go poorly.
Travis: Or really cool?
Marisha: I mean, does anyone else have any better ideas where to send this thing?
Ashley: What would happen if you threw it into the sphere?
Sam: Vecna would get it, right?
Ashley: It would get, yeah, that would be bad.
Laura: How about you throw it in that pocket dimension and then we can always go to that same pocket dimension and get it if we decide it's bad there.
Liam: Yes.
Marisha: That's true. I mean, it's its own little pocket. It's at least blocked off. That we know of.
Laura: Drop it in a thorny patch.
Marisha: I'm going to go for that Dread Emperor dimension.
Liam: Percival? Percy?
Taliesin: Yes?
Liam: You are clever.
Taliesin: I am.
Liam: It doesn't mean you're always right.
Taliesin: I know. I know.
Marisha: And you do have this terrible habit of liking to push problems on other people.
Ashley: You don't think it would work if I tried Greater Restoration?
Laura: Do you have any more 5th-level?
Ashley: I do, I have one more 5th-level.
Laura: Oh, you do?
Ashley: I do.
Taliesin: I don't think so, but what do I know?
Laura: Why not try it? Before we send it.
Liam: We can camp here for the night. We don't have to go anywhere.
Taliesin: That's fair, yes.
Marisha: Wait, you want to do Greater Restoration, why?
Taliesin: On the sword.
Travis: I'm at one hitpoint.
Laura: You're at--?
Taliesin: I'm going to kick myself if I'm right.
Ashley: Okay, hold on a minute.
Travis: I could just take a healing potion.
Marisha: It needs a wielder, Percy.
Taliesin: Does it? All right, let's-- go ahead. I'm curious.
Ashley: First, Grog is at one hit point. Okay? So I'm going to use my 6th-level and I'm going to use Heal.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: All right. As Pike turns to you, looks you in the eye, clutching her holy symbol of Sarenrae, there's a smile at the corner of her mouth at noticing that her friend is back. Though as tenuous as this argument has been, and you weren't present for the scare that was there, you can see there is a genuine shake to a lot of their fingertips from what has just transpired. She reaches forward and touches you and you immediately heal 70 hitpoints.
Laura: Bam! Shebang.
Travis: (sings) I feel amazing.
Laura: What do you think Greater Restoration will do?
Ashley: I don't know. Because I remember it worked one time on-- didn't we try that on his--
Taliesin: In my mind I have a worst-case scenario, but.
Laura: I'm afraid it will make whatever's in the sword come out.
Marisha: That's what I'm afraid of as well.
Laura: But if it comes out then we can banish it or kill it and--
Ashley: And then he could keep the sword.
Laura: It will be just a useless sword at that point.
Travis: Not if I'm wielding it.
Sam: Something tells me you won't be wielding it.
Taliesin: I'm tempted to ask you to do it just because I would love to be wrong.
Laura: Fucking try it, Pike!
Ashley: Should we try it? Let's try it.
Travis: Yeah, go for it. We've got a backup if there's something wrong.
Matt: So, as Pike turns around from Grog, the softness in her face fades, and the hard jawline of Pike Trickfoot, seafaring gnome cleric, steps across the snow, step by step towards the darkened blade that nearly stole away her childhood friend. Still clutching in one ogre-gauntleted fist the symbol of Sarenrae, your other hand comes out and you can see the shadow begin to spill from the blade as you approach.
Marisha: Pike, be careful.
Sam: I'm going to inspire her again. I'm going to sing a very romantic ballad.
Ashley: Bring it.
Sam: (sings) Oh my little pretty one, my little pretty one, Pike the Gnome-a, oh you make my nipples hum, my nipples hum, oh you make my nipples hum, Pike the Gnome-a. (laughter)
Matt: Take your d10 inspiration.
Liam: All sad and tragic and with gravitas.
Ashley: A d10?
Matt: A d10 inspiration die.
Ashley: That was beautiful, Scanlan.
Sam: I know.
Matt: All right. As you step forward and the shadow begins to emanate from the blade, you focus and concentrate, and as you do, the light of Sarenrae begins to glow from the front of your hand, and as it does, the shadow seems to be cast away, and the blade now stands currently bare before you. You reach out and touch the blade and recite a few words under your breath, and release the energy of the spell into the sword. Go ahead and make a wisdom check. Just roll a d20 and add your wisdom modifier.
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: Oh, that's good.
Ashley: 17.
Sam: You also have inspiration if you need it.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: Add your d10 inspiration die to it.
Liam: Yeah!
Ashley: 26. No, wait. Yeah, 26.
Matt: As you reach out and touch the blade, you can feel suddenly the dark, chaotic presence in there. you can see flashes in your mind of an individual, an ancient person. You see flashes in your head of a clamoring for power, a need for attention and wealth. You see a person making a deal with something it didn't understand. You see a flash of a punishment. You see the remnants of their eternal soul bound to a blade. You see themselves cursed with eternal, gluttonous, unending hunger and cast through the ages, the rest forgotten. And you see, just like the singular thread that was holding Grog to his corpse, a dark, dark thread that connects the sword to Grog. And with this spell, you grasp out and clutch it-- and tear it in two. Grog, wherever you're standing, it's like you just got punched in the gut. You're thrown off your feet and land in the snow once again, eyes wide open. All of you freak out because it's just like how Grog fell originally, except for he shoots up, heavy breathing, alive. With that, the blade just snarls in your grasp.
Ashley: (laughs) Oopsie.
Laura: What just happened?
Matt: Grog? That fucking blade ate your soul.
Travis: What?
Matt: You wonder, this entire time, how you could be so foolish to give into something that this whole time has been using you.
Travis: How could I have been so foolish? This whole time, that fucking blade has been using me!
Marisha: Pike, let go, let go. Before it--
Laura: Drop the sword.
Ashley: I'm scared to let go of it.
Marisha: Let go of it!
Matt: (impact) It sits in the snow. Motionless.
Liam: Keyleth?
Marisha: It didn't attach itself to you now, did it, or anything?
Ashley: No. No.
Travis: Yo, guys, update. That sword is totally evil.
Ashley: Grog, what did you think we were telling you?
Marisha: I reach out and I Plane Shift it to the pocket dimension of the Dread Emperor.
Matt: Okay, you reach out and you pick up the blade, and as you grab it in your hand you can hear the voice, "You! I will--" And before it can finish the phrase, you guys watch as a little thin slit within the plane just shutters open, and you have a quick glance at that distant starscape with various broken, slowly floating islands of earth and rock. You see the partially destroyed bramble forest that you once trekked through, and with that, you throw the blade through the small doorway--
Laura: Eat it, Craven Edge!
Liam: (tiny voice) Help meeee.
Travis: Yeah, I'm not cravin' bacon anymore!
Matt: It slams shut and is gone.
Laura: Well? Fingers crossed nobody gets it.
Travis: And there was a dagger that came with it.
Laura: What?
Marisha: What?
Taliesin: What?
Travis: (laughs) I'm fucking with you.
Ashley: Grog.
Marisha: I know how that spell works now! That's nice.
Liam: What do you say we camp here for the night, everybody?
Taliesin: Let's camp here for the night.
Liam: Right in the cave.
Sam: Wait, it's not at night, it's the middle of the day.
Laura: We can just fucking hang out for a day.
Sam: Shouldn't we start walking?
Marisha: No.
Taliesin: No.
Laura: She's out of spells.
Liam: You got a hard-on for adventure, little man?
Sam: I just think we should make headway if we're going to be traveling all day. Grog, do you even have any weapons anymore?
Travis: I'm super exhausted--
Laura: Yeah, he's got so many weapons.
Sam: I could lend you my whip if you'd like.
Travis: No, I'm like Northrop Grumman meets Raytheon in this Bag of Holding, we're good.
Ashley: Since we got rid of Craven Edge, do you want the Gauntlets of Ogre Power back?
Travis: Oh no, I just gave them to you, though.
Ashley: Yeah, but you're the muscle. I take them off and I give them back.
Travis: What about if I trade you, what if I trade you--
Ashley: Are we doing a trade?
Travis: I have Boots of Levitation.
Ashley: Ooh!
Travis: Or I have black iron plate that while wearing this heavy plate armor the bearer gains resistance to any fire damage.
Laura: Ooh! That's good.
Sam: She already has plate armor.
Laura: Yeah, but this one gives her fire resistance.
Ashley: Does it maybe make me quiet as well?
Travis: I bet if you levitate you'd just be floating above the ground.
Liam: Levitate would make her quiet, yeah.
Laura: Does she have to-- in the levitation boots, can you move?
Matt: Levitation, someone has to push you along.
Travis: Yeah, yeah, that's fine, I'll take care of that.
Marisha: Oh my god, we can get like a little kid leash for you.
Laura: We could tie her onto the broom, we could tie her onto the broom!
Ashley: I could be a Pike kite!
Marisha: It'll be like that scene in Inception.
Travis: Yes! We'll discover electricity with you, you're a great conductor.
Ashley: Grog, that would kill me!
Travis: Oh. That's true. Which one you want?
Ashley: All right, I'll take Boots of Levitation. And you get these so you're super strong again.
Travis: I'll take my Gauntlets of Ogre Power back, strength back up to 19.
Liam: It was good times, though, Pike in those gauntlets. That was pretty cool.
Ashley: Hey, I felt real cool punching that chicken that one time. (laughter)
Ashley: One day I'll be strong.
Sam: Well, I think you just cured Grog, saved his life, and got rid of a soul-eating sword, so you're pretty strong.
Ashley: What did you say?
Sam: You killed the sword and saved Grog's life, so I think you're pretty strong.
Ashley: That's true, that's most important.
Travis: Way to go, badass.
Ashley: Hey, thanks.
Travis: No problem, man.
Ashley: Anytime.
Matt: (laughs) All right. So you guys go ahead and take a--
Travis: Long.
Laura: We just short-rested, but now we're going to sleep. It's been a traumatic five minutes.
Taliesin: We were in a time vortex, really it's time to sleep.
Matt: Fair enough. Where're you resting?
Liam: In the mouth of the cave.
Laura: In the mouth of the cave.
Travis: In the mouth of the cave.
Taliesin: No, no, no.
Sam: You guys can sleep wherever you want. I'll be sleeping in my bed.
Laura: Oh, in the mansion, fuck, we'll sleep in the mansion.
Liam: Sorry, you know, it's so new, it's hard to remember--
Laura: --that we have that.
Sam: Yeah. We do have it.
Marisha: Can I blow my last 5th-level spell to Greater Restoration somebody from their age?
Matt: Sure, yeah.
Sam: Oh, do we know? Are we aware that we went under that effect, I mean we just feel different, or how do--
Matt: No, you guys have-- it's one of those things where you felt the impact happen and you saw each other rapidly age for those that were present, and even afterward there's a noticeable effect, so yeah. You would be able to ascertain via those situations, and the time you've had to rest to think over the battle and see that difference. Plus the fact that you watched Vex get cured of that aging effect by the sphinx before you left, that was also the big indicator. So you would be aware.
Marisha: Who wants to go first?
Sam: You can do multiples?
Marisha: No, just one tonight. The rest of y'all have to stay old.
Travis: Take ol' wrinkly-nuts over there. (laughs)
Laura: Triple the wrinkles, triple the nuts.
Marisha: All right, come here, Vax.
Liam: Here I come, ol' wrinkly-nuts.
Taliesin: Can I borrow your broom for a bit?
Laura: You want to work on it? Or you want to fly around?
Taliesin: It's early, I might as well.
Laura: Can I stand next to you while you work on it? Would that bother you?
Taliesin: Only if you want to double the amount of time it takes me to work on it.
Laura: Oh, Percy, I just want to see what you're doing.
Taliesin: All right, it's very boring.
Sam: Wait, are we in the mansion or are we--
Matt: So you guys have all walked into the mansion at this point. Keyleth, you cast Greater Restoration, and you reach out to Vax. And what little bit of crow's-nest wrinkles, crow's feet that have crawled on the side of his face, and a little bit of the grey hairs that began to spray in the side, all revert back, skin tightens, he's back to his normal roguish half-elf average-aged self.
Liam: I am still older than you.
Laura: By like two whole minutes.
Liam: Which means I get to tell you what to do and don't you forget it.
Matt: All right, so all of you guys head into the mansion. Vex, you're helping Percy to the workshop?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Okay. What're you doing?
Taliesin: Hit dice just restore at the end of the day, correct?
Matt: Half of your spent hit dice is restored.
Laura: I pop Trinket out, of course, so he can hang out. Shake it out. Run around, get some exercise, I feel like an asshole for keeping you in this thing.
Matt: (bear noises) Goes into the kitchen. All right, so as you guys are preparing to rest for the evening, you head down to the workshop.
Taliesin: Yeah, just to work on the broom.
Matt: Okay. Are you aiding?
Taliesin: Sure.
Laura: Sure.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a tinkering check with advantage.
Taliesin: All right. Oh! With advantage. Very nice. It's new now, I have to remember, I got a new number. Natural 20.
Matt: You guys, there are other numbers between these, by the way.
Taliesin: Are there? Are there? LA-New York-LA-New York, sorry, yeah.
Matt: Don't poke the badger, Percy.
Taliesin: I gave it to Ashly this week, it was working fine.
Matt: Yeah, no.
Taliesin: The other Ashly.
Matt: All right, so. You guys work the evening, and though you were uncertain, Vex is actually a very quick learner and is eager to help, and so between bringing tools at your disposal and helping you hold a few places properly during the construction process, you manage to get far more headway than you expected in just an evening's bit of work. You still have probably a couple of days of work before you can actually complete your prototype for this and try it out, but--
Taliesin: Can I at least have the tether done, or is it still in progress?
Matt: The tether for?
Taliesin: For a dex save if you fall off.
Matt: Yeah, I'd say you've gotten that enough.
Taliesin: All right. Can't stabilize yet, but at least there's a-- okay.
Matt: Yeah. At least if there's ever a tumble there's a tether piece that would hopefully have a chance of keeping the broom with you, so.
Laura: Percy? I feel safer already.
Taliesin: Excellent. Yay to a constructive day. That was-- you're quite good at this, we should do this again sometime.
Laura: I would love that.
Taliesin: Yes, this was actually agreeable. All right.
Travis: I'm in the training room in my sandpit sleeping bed.
Matt: Which in contemplating over the experiences you've had, you now have access to the full Craven Edge weapon sheet.
Travis: The full one?
Ashley: That's a scroll.
Matt: Just so you know what it had done.
Laura: What it had done to you?
Travis: Oh, fuck you! (laughter)
Travis: (high-pitched) Okay.
Laura: Can I see, can we see it?
Travis: No.
Laura: Why? Come on.
Taliesin: I'm so excited.
Ashley: All I just saw was "dark aura" in really dark letters.
Travis: No, no, I can make really good origami now. Can I try and take out the flaming warhammer, the Firebrand Warhammer?
Matt: Yeah, you pull it out, take it, swing it around, dust it off a bit.
Travis: Can I get it to light?
Matt: Bursts into flames, and for a second that warmth near your face is like an old friend coming to roost for a bit.
Travis: Can you hear me? (laughter)
Matt: (fire sounds)
Travis: The silent type. I like it. (laughter)
Matt: All right. You guys all have your evening's rest. Though it is an early evening, you manage to comfortably, after a number of harrowing experiences, recoup, recover, wake up to a grand chickenful breakfast.
Marisha: Yeah. (laughter)
Sam: Chicken and eggs, everyone!
Laura: Yay!
Ashley: Chicken and waffles, perhaps?
Sam: Nope, just eggs.
Ashley: Oh, just eggs, okay.
Sam: What's a waffle?
Ashley: I don't know, it's like a mishmash of dough, the side--
Sam: Sounds great.
Taliesin: Can I spend my tinkering check building a waffle iron? I'm just kidding. I'm kind of kidding. I'm going to put that aside for later.
Matt: Okay. Okay.
Marisha: (laughs) I'm going to put that aside.
Sam: I spent some of the morning just with a little piece of parchment paper and a pen, just writing out something.
Matt: Okay. All right. You guys finish your rest, the servants are eager to send you on your way, should you require anything else. Otherwise, you guys continue your journey?
Taliesin: Let's head towards the town.
Sam: We walk, is that what we do?
Taliesin: We walk.
Sam: What is this walking thing? It's terrible.
Taliesin: It's also very inconspicuous. I know you're not a fan of inconspicuous, but there's nothing you want to be conspicu-ed by, here.
Marisha: I mean, I could mist, I could Wind Walk us. Do we want to Wind Walk it?
Sam: I mean, will that burn something?
Marisha: My 6th-level spell.
Sam: Let's just walk, then.
Matt: All right. You guys walking north?
Laura: I float on my broom.
Matt: Okay. Who's leading?
Laura: And keep an eye out in front for any sort of problems.
Liam: Have fun, doofus!
Laura: Shh! Yes, I'm leading.
Travis: This is a lot to leave off, that's a lot.
Matt: Well, you know. (laughter)
Travis: To not have. That's a big fucking difference.
Laura: Would you have kept it if you had known all those other things? Or would you have wanted to use more of it?
Travis: You don't know.
Matt: This is, by the way, the benefits of Identify spells and things like that.
Laura: Oh, shit.
Travis: Oh, well, if only I'd used my Identify spell.
Matt: But going forward, if you have something you don't know about, you can always go to people with those abilities and be like, could you see what the fuck this does?
Laura: Do any of our people have Identify?
Marisha: Negative. It's like a wizard thing.
Travis: I didn't even know people could do that.
Matt: Allura or Gilmore could probably do that for you.
Laura: Don't act like you know for sure. (laughter)
Liam: I know about Gilmore.
Ashley: Such a twinsies.
Matt: Aw, so good. All right, so. You guys start heading northward, you're leading then, Vex? Make a survival check. Technically in the forest, since you're moving through.
Liam: Yeah!
Laura: 26.
Matt: Not a problem. Utilizing the backtracking of the path you guys took through anyway, is there anything you want to do while you're in the forest? Pushing through? Okay. So you keep moving north--
Laura: Oh! Did you want to look for that lake, or are you good, Grog?
Travis: Oh, right, remember there was a lake when we were looking for the heart of a nymph?
Laura: Doesn't it lead into the Fey world? The plane?
Travis: Yeah, there's a portal there, right? And isn't one of the vestiges in the Fey?
Laura: In the Fey world?
Travis: Yeah.
Taliesin: Do we want to do that first, or do we want to deal with--
Laura: We should probably, but I do want to come back here.
Taliesin: Oh yes, of course, it'll be right, next thing we do.
Travis: Yeah, only if it's close, otherwise I'm good to go back to Westruun. Only if the lake was close, I don't know where it is.
Liam: Are you in a hurry to talk to Dad?
Laura: Oh.
Taliesin: We don't have to stop there, that's fine.
Liam: Maybe later.
Marisha: I mean, do you need to talk to Dad?
Liam: No. We do not need to talk to Dad.
Laura: Let's go to Westruun!
Taliesin: Westruun it is!
Liam: Sore spot.
Matt: Continuing pushing forward, I'd like you all to make a stealth check. (something clatters offscreen)
Laura: Oh, shit. (laughter)
Sam: Someone just failed it. Pike!
Matt: With disadvantage, Pike.
Ashley: Disadvantage? Okay.
Travis: I'm still there, right? No, we took a long rest!
Matt: Yeah, you're fine, you're no longer exhausted.
Travis: 28.
Ashley: Can I put on my Boots of Levitation?
Sam: Too late.
Liam: Too late.
Matt: Too late.
Ashley: I rolled a six.
Travis: Yeah, she's back!
Ashley: Pike is back! What would it be without some clanging?
Matt: So as you guys are making your way across the path, keeping as quiet as you can, Pike, you're starting to fall behind a little bit, and in trying to catch up, you get a run on before you start to hear this (hiss) out of the side of the forest, and you see a deep blue scaled-looking lizard entity. You see in the distance a basilisk that's coming over the ridge.
Marisha: Oh, again.
Taliesin: I wouldn't have let her get that far back, I would've been hanging back there too.
Matt: Okay, then you're hanging with her and you see this as well, what are you guys doing? It's about, it's about 30, 40 feet off.
Taliesin: How big is it?
Marisha: Should we run?
Matt: It's the same size as the other ones, they're about five and a half, six feet from nose to back end.
Travis: Let's run. I pick up Pike, I put her on my shoulder, and we run.
Matt: Okay. First off, Pike, I need you to go ahead and make a constitution saving throw.
Laura: Aw, because you saw it.
Matt: You glanced over and saw it before you realized.
Ashley: I don't think I did, though. (laughter)
Ashley: Oh! I got 19.
Matt: 19, okay. Just the instinctual glance at it, you're like, oh crap, and you feel the impact of its gaze. However, you're a fairly hardy gnome and you resist the creeping stone-based enchantment. As you begin to run forward, Percy pushes behind you as Grog rushes forward, both of you guys recognizing that sound and averting your gaze, pick up Pike and you all begin charging forward. As you do, you can hear the hiss behind you gathered by a second one. (hissing) And the sounds of many feet charging through the snow quickly. I would like you guys all to go ahead and, we'll say for the sake of this, just roll dexterity checks. Or no, athletics. This would be your run speed on this one, sorry.
Laura: What if I'm on the broom, though?
Matt: If you're on the broom, you don't have to worry about it, you're not exerting energy to maintain a pace. Athletics.
Travis: 24.
Ashley: 19.
Liam: 30.
Marisha: Ten.
Taliesin: Ten.
Sam: 11.
Matt: Okay. You guys all manage to maintain a fairly decent pace; these creatures are fairly quick and as they begin to catch up, you begin to use your guidance as a person who knows the forest fairly well to begin ducking in and out of areas, using snowbanks at your disposal. At one point, Grog, you see a partially broken old dying tree that you just go ahead and grab and throw behind you. Make a strength check?
Travis: 21.
Matt: 21. With one hand you grab it and, boom, the actual trunk, old and long-rotted, snaps and falls behind you with a large impact. You believe from the sound of it, it at least hit or halted one of them for a short time, it's just a (snarl) sound. And as you guys continue pushing forward towards the northern side of this forest, the sound of the hissing begins to slowly subside as you dodge back and forth, zigzagging across this pathway. Eventually you guys, over about an additional hour and a half of pushing forward, you hear, and have not heard any following hissing sound for a while, and eventually see before you the outside of the Frostweald Forest finally approaching. With that, you guys push through the last elements of this frozen forest, back into the fields heading northward towards Westruun proper. With that, we're going to take a quick break. (cheering)
Matt: So yeah, we're going to go ahead and take a little trip here to the restroom, we'll see you guys here in a few minutes to continue the next length of this journey.
Travis: We get to play that shit again, right?
Liam: Why did it get so scary? [break]
Matt: And welcome back, everybody. So. Returning from-- Stop dying. Returning from that harrowing endeavor, you continue your trek northward toward Westruun. It is a few days' travel to make your way, a little over two days, I think, from where the Frostweald is, you can stop and pass by the camp at the lake if you wish to, or continue pressing forward, it's up to you.
Marisha: Well, we should probably stop by and tell them that their problem has been handled.
Taliesin: We could stop by later and tell them that both their problems have been handled.
Marisha: Why can't we stop by now? They're right here, we might as well pop in. We'll forget if we don't do it now. I know us. It'll be three months before we come back, and then we'll be like, by the way--
Laura: No, we're coming back soon because we're going into the Feywild.
Taliesin: Well, they know their problem's been handled because we sent all their people back to them.
Marisha: Let's just talk to them real fast. Okay. We pop in, we're like, hey.
Laura: I think Keyleth wants a reward.
Matt: You guys stop by the Foramere Basin, where you originally saw the encampment of some of the survivors of the Westruun incursion by the Chroma Conclave. As you approach, some of the guards immediately come up, crossbows up, when they notice who it was before previously, they lower their weapons and one of the guards comes forward, approaches you, saying, "Good to see that you've returned. We've managed to also acquire our recently captured individuals, most at least have come back safely, it's appreciated. If you wish to talk to Cornelius, well, he should be up and about. I'll take you." Leads you guys into the camp. As you find your way in, folks around you tend to stop again and watch you quietly as you pass, a few with smiles, and you see a few people wave and say, thank you. And you do see a couple of individuals that you did help escape from the orc encampment, they themselves are still on the mend, a lot of them were fairly brutalized when they were there, but the same child that you found in the tent just runs up and gives a big ol' hug to Vex and holds you for a second, then lets go and runs back off to her mother. You're led back to the tent where Cornelius originally met with you guys, but Cornelius is outside of the tent right now, just in the process of cutting firewood that's going to be used for the firepits later on.
Laura: Where'd he find the wood? I thought there were no trees around.
Matt: You imagine that they don't go to other nearby wooded areas and cut them down?
Travis: Yeah, poke the DM. (glass shatters offscreen)
Liam: Oh dear.
Matt: And that's what happens. (laughter)
Matt: You think that was an accident.
Taliesin: When you're in 50 episodes, this is the first one.
Marisha: This is the first one. It's like that scene in the second Matrix.
Matt: Let's not remember the second Matrix. Cornelius is there. What little bit of timber they've managed to scavenge or find from local wooded areas, Cornelius sits there, wipes his brow, his sleeves rolled up. "Oh. Hold on just a second." He puts his axe down and walks over, wipes his hands. "Well, you're true to your word. And for that I'm real appreciative. You did us a real favor and brought back some good people alive and intact."
Sam: Did your brother make it back safely?
Matt: "Cyrus did and I certainly had a very stern talking-to to that boy. But I--"
Sam: Don't go too hard on him, he was being held up by a rope and tortured by a bunch of monsters.
Laura: Pretty traumatizing, I would assume.
Matt: (laughs) "That would be him, wouldn't it? Well, nevertheless, I appreciate it. Looks like through some talks we might be able to bring most of us into Kymal for the time being. It's the town to the west of here. It's small, it's cramped, but we figure at least that's better than being out here in the open. And we have numbers there, so we'll be a little more protected."
Taliesin: Well, that's where we'll send word if anything happens in Westruun.
Laura: Yes.
Matt: "Heading to Westruun yourself, now?"
Marisha: It's next on the list.
Laura: If all goes well, you may be able-- no, I don't know.
Taliesin: Let's not make promises.
Laura: Dragons.
Marisha: Dragons.
Laura: It may be a while, but we're trying.
Matt: "Well, I wish you all the best of luck. Yeah. Figure if anyone could do it, it'd probably be you folk. Well. I look forward to hearing from your victorious recovery of our homestead, and I'll get the first round when we come back to our town."
Marisha: Farewell, Cornelius.
Matt: "Stay safe." He turns around and grabs his axe again and starts chopping through the wood once more.
Laura: Was there anything else you wanted to do, Keyleth?
Marisha: No, I'm good.
Laura: All right.
Sam: Do we need to check in with Drez? No, we know what he wants.
Liam: Fuck Drez.
Marisha: That guy's a weasel.
Sam: We have his Hunk of Quall.
Marisha: That was a gift, I'm pretty sure. It's a loaner, it's on loan for the foreseeable future until we save the world.
Ashley: Mr. Vina. Mr. Drez Vina.
Matt: Drez Vina, who is the assistant to Master Quall. Who is the one that originally hired you. And by the fact that he called a debt on the initial enchanted ruby that you used on your first endeavor, yeah, you get the feeling that whatever this object is that he gave you, it's probably on loan.
Ashley: (coughs)
Travis: Pike! Are you all right?
Sam: Heal her!
Matt: So you guys continue forward into Westruun?
Sam: To Westruun. And what is our mission?
Laura: Okay, what are we, what's our plan here, Grog?
Travis: What time is it?
Matt: You guys have traveled for one day, you've gone into the evening, you can take a rest here or, you know, rest within your mansion on the outskirts of this encampment before it roots up and starts heading back to Kymal relatively soon. You guys then, the next morning, can continue your trek northward, and you can probably get to Westruun by the end of day, if you travel quickly and consistently.
Laura: What do you think, Grog, what do you want to do? Walk right into town?
Travis: No. No. I like what Percy said, I think there's worth in being clever.
Taliesin: I would agree.
Travis: I would actually like to maybe run some ideas by you. We don't walk into town, but we have the town walk out to us.
Sam: How do we do that?
Taliesin: Oh, there's many ways we could do that.
Travis: Well, look, so there are people in there that are innocents, right, we told the farmer we'd get his people back and I really want to see if Wilhand's all right. So listen. How do you feel about sending someone in that would draw out their worst?
Taliesin: I think we could draw out their worst very easily. Hmm. How committed are your people to trial by combat?
Travis: Oh, it's about all we do.
Taliesin: What can you imagine would be the most exciting show they could possibly hope for?
Laura: A rematch, I would think.
Travis: Well, it wasn't really an official fight, it was more of like a one-sided ass-whooping.
Laura: But they think you're dead.
Travis: Yeah. We're going to get to that later. I was thinking maybe we could set a fire and send someone running in and say there's a roving band of orcs that are challenging the goliaths, and then when they come out and leave we can move into the town and get all the innocents out. And then if we want, we could set a trap, or an ambush, or we could play some mind games, but I want to try and get the town clear first.
Sam: You know, your people might not be the brightest, but they're not going to send everybody out to meet these orcs.
Travis: No no no no. Just a few.
Marisha: And probably not Kevdak.
Travis: Well, look, if it's not Kevdak, we get a practice round on those that do come out.
Marisha: Well, here's my question  there's got to be hundreds of people still left in Westruun. It could take hours to evacuate a city of that size.
Travis: Well, so you know how last time when we went over there and Horace was just outside the city walls? I'm pretty sure if we wait for a bit, somebody will come out, we take him, we mess him up real good, maybe take his tongue out, chop off his arms, and then send him back in.
Taliesin: Some of that is...
Travis: I mean, I'm open to augmenting that plan a little bit.
Sam: I could make you look like an orc or something.
Travis: No, like I said before, if I go in there--
Sam: No no no, just to rough up the guy that we send back in to tell them about the orcs.
Travis: I'll hold him while somebody else can rough him up, but--
Taliesin: How smart are your people?
Travis: Well, pretty smart, they're all like me.
Laura: As smart as you?
Travis: Yeah, scholars the lot.
Marisha: Grog. If someone kills Kevdak, say hypothetically you, who takes control of the Herd after that?
Travis: Well, my math is a little shoddy, but I think that would be me.
Marisha: Well then, why do we need to evacuate the city if you could theoretically have control over it?
Liam: If we could figure out where Kevdak is and drop in on that point.
Laura: Well, he's in the mayor's--
Liam: Yeah. And handle Kevdak before the rest of the city can descend upon us. It's a gamble, but so is everything we do.
Laura: Yeah, but if the city, if the rest of them don't see him defeating Kevdak, then it's worthless. They need to watch it happen.
Liam: Well, how honorable are your people, if you fell Kevdak or whatever the fuck his name is, will the rest stand down?
Travis: Maybe, but-- (sighs) So, here it is. My whole life has been wanting to punish or get back at Kevdak. I don't want to do it cheaply, I don't want to do it quickly. I want to do it with my own hands. Now, I'll do it with my family, do it with my buddy Pike, but I want it done right.
Taliesin: I've got a thought. It's dangerous, but I have a thought. You literally walk, march right to the city gates and demand a challenge.
Marisha: I have a feeling you're going to be the most attractive bait that we can think of.
Taliesin: If we put you right in front there, perhaps we let Pike stay with you, I doubt there's any of them who will not want to watch that. And while they're watching, the rest of us do our best to get everybody as safe as possible.
Laura: But what's to keep Grog safe in the meantime?
Taliesin: They won't want to sully that fight, no one will want to sully that fight.
Travis: No, I can guarantee you, no one will interfere.
Taliesin: And if things get bad--
Marisha: We'll be nearby.
Taliesin: We'll pull him out.
Travis: I like that.
Laura: I don't want to abandon Grog to a fight with Kevdak while we're freeing villagers. No offense to them. I want to have Grog's back.
Liam: I agree with that.
Marisha: I think we won't need to worry about freeing the villagers if we can defeat Kevdak.
Laura: What if we stay hidden?
Travis: Oh, wait a minute. Right, so they think I'm dead.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: Maybe I let them think I conquered death.
Laura: Which you kind of did, Grog.
Travis: Maybe we let them think that I'm not the same Grog I was before. Maybe we let them think I've gained abilities.
Marisha: I'm pretty sure all those things are actually true.
Travis: Yeah, yeah, but I mean like--
Sam: Yeah, yeah, make a show of it a bit.
Travis: Yeah. But they don't have to see where those abilities come from.
Marisha: Sure.
Travis: All they've got to see is me. There are roofs, right, I mean it's like two- and three-story buildings all in that city.
Ashley: It just makes me so nervous.
Laura: So wait, we stay hidden and you call lightning.
Travis: Yeah. You guys get all up on the roofs while I'm making a scene in the middle and we pull off the greatest stage show there's ever been.
Sam: I love a good stage show.
Ashley: This is not a bad idea.
Marisha: We can make you look as cool as you want. That's undeniable.
Travis: If I do a pelvic thrust, will you do your--
Sam: I will grant you cock lightning.
Travis: Holy shit. "I will grant you cock lightning."
Liam: Weirdest production of Grease ever.
Taliesin: How many objects are you attuned to right now?
Travis: Three.
Sam: If he could unattune to one, we can put him in the Hat of Disguise.
Travis: I don't want it.
Taliesin: What do you have right now?
Travis: I have the Gauntlets of Ogre Strength.
Taliesin: That's good.
Travis: I have the flaming--
Laura: Warhammer?
Travis: Yup.
Taliesin: That's good.
Travis: And the belt. What's the other? Oh, and my--
Laura: You gained the ability to grow a beard in the afterlife. It's pretty major.
Matt: Well, you have three of those, so you have to get rid of the necklace.
Travis: Actually, the flaming warhammer's not attuned.
Matt: Oh, that's right. That's true, no, you're good.
Taliesin: What does the amulet do?
Travis: It gives me plus two to my AC.
Marisha: Pretty nice.
Taliesin: That's pretty nice.
Sam: And so the object of this would be to stall, to enthrall, to captivate them as long as you can, keep talking to them, not engage in fights for as long as possible while we--
Travis: Get in place. I mean, I could try and do it while you're getting the hostages out, or we could just take down the snake's head.
Taliesin: We need his Knuckles.
Laura: Kill Kevdak.
Sam: Yeah, but is Kevdak going to engage in a fight with a magical Grog? That's not a fair fight, is it?
Laura: It's a pride issue.
Ashley: I think he will.
Travis: I do know how to get his pride in check.
Laura: Grog, would you engage in a fight with a magical being who wronged you, if you thought you were better than him?
Travis: Why, who said something?
Sam: And when they discover, and they surely will, that you are not magical and that your friends are aiding you, will that bring you great shame?
Travis: No. No, I made a choice. This is my family. My old family left me to die.
Marisha: Plus, I mean, it's like wearing really cool robes. Right, Scanlan? You know, there's nothing wrong with wanting to look cool.
Sam: I don't know about wanting to look cool, it just comes naturally.
Ashley: Let's make sure that it doesn't happen, that they won't know.
Laura: Nice beret there, Scanlan.
Taliesin: This is going to end with a fight between the two of you, there's no denying that.
Liam: Anyway, Kevdak's using a gift of the gods.
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: That's right! He's full of shit.
Ashley: These are very scary people, you guys. They left him in a very horrible state and I would not like to see that again.
Marisha: But that was years ago!
Taliesin: We defeated the people who left me in a horrible state, I think we will have no problem defeating the people who left him.
Liam: We have a gift of the gods and soon we will have many more.
Sam: So you do intend to engage in a fight. Because otherwise I would say, I can go in, just sort of looking like you, and draw their attention.
Taliesin: And then what?
Sam: And then bamf outta there.
Taliesin: But then what?
Sam: Or run away and draw them with me.
Taliesin: How does that save the city?
Sam: It gets them to follow me.
Travis: Yeah, I mean, and either way, I like that because either way, if only the pawns of the group follow him out? That's fewer goliaths we have to worry about. Best-case scenario, Kevdak, Zanror, and the best of the baddies chase him out, we can get the hostages out, and then set the trap for when they come back.
Taliesin: It's not just the hostages, though, it's a city under siege. I just don't think it's feasible to empty it.
Marisha: Right, but you have to remember it's-- right, yes, pretty much. What you said. It's a city under siege, under siege, it's meta under siege, under siege from the goliaths and then again from the dragons.
Taliesin: They're in a place, though, where if we can get rid of the goliaths, at least they could function with the dragons.
Laura: And if we remove all of the villagers, it'll definitely gain the attention of the dragons.
Marisha: That's true.
Travis: Will it? I thought they only fly over every few days.
Marisha: They have wyverns who have been running patrol.
Travis: Not over Westruun.
Taliesin: Not over Westruun.
Marisha: But we haven't been hanging out over Westruun.
Travis: If there are no wyverns, are you open to the idea of gerbil-ball Scanlan doing a thing?
Marisha: No, not at all. But that's actually not a bad idea. We're still outside the camp, right? How about this: why don't we hike to the outskirts of Westruun, camp out the rest of the evening, keep an eye out, and just scout for a little bit?
Travis: Yeah, and if we get close, hopefully we can ask somebody that's nice if they've seen any dragons and how long it's been since.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Well, we probably want to set up shop for a while and wait for the dragons to come and leave and then strike, so that we've got some time.
Taliesin: Very clever.
Travis: That's brilliant.
Liam: We use fake shithead Grog. Sorry. Fake shitheadier Grog to create a scene and run off and draw away some of the goliaths, probably not Kevdak, and then you go in for the main event with a thinned-out Herd.
Travis: Yep. I like it.
Marisha: I can be on the roofs nearby along with Vex and Percy doing range.
Laura: What if we do the same thing that those orcs did? When you go in and cause a distraction and lead them out, we spend the few days that we're waiting for the dragons to build a massive trench, you can use Move Earth, and lead them all out over something and drop a Herd of goliaths.
Marisha: And I can do the Hallucinatory Terrain thing again. It has been a while.
Laura: Drop them into a trench, they're stuck in there while he fights Kevdak.
Marisha: And I do love using that spell.
Travis: I'm game.
Ashley: I like this idea.
Sam: It still doesn't solve one question.
Travis: What's that?
Sam: I love you, but can you beat Kevdak without magic and friends?
Travis: I mean, look, we're going to find out one way or the other. I don't know. But look.
Laura: Can we aid you?
Travis: Yeah!
Laura: This isn't like the Crucible.
Travis: No, look, he's wearing weapons given by a god. I don't care if it's a totally fair fight, I just don't want to dispatch him cheaply.
Sam: All right.
Taliesin: All right.
Marisha: All right.
Taliesin: We can do this. We've got lightning.
Liam: That's very intelligent of you, Grog.
Sam: That means good.
Laura: Smart.
Travis: Oh. Thank you.
Taliesin: Let's rest up and wait for the dragons.
Marisha: All right, so we're going to hike to the outskirts of Westruun.
Matt: Okay. You guys, during this journey, find your way northward. Are you skirting around the west side like you did when you first arrived?
Laura: Sure?
Matt: All right.
Laura: We're keeping a good distance, as we get closer, so it lasts, I cast Pass Without a Trace on us.
Travis: We have that really nice high grass, right?
Matt: It was like waist-high or so.
Travis: Not like cornstalk high.
Matt: There were areas where there was, like during the thick farmland, there are areas where they have high-stalk.
Travis: I'd like to stay there, I'd like to stay in those areas.
Matt: Okay, so you'll be pretty much dodging from farmland to farmland, on the outside. I need you all to roll stealth checks, if you could?
Laura: Add ten because I cast Pass Without a Trace.
Ashley: I'm going to use, oh no. Because that won't be enough time.
Sam: Come on, Pikey.
Travis: That's good.
Laura: That's really good. Plus ten.
Ashley: Plus ten?
Laura: Yeah, because I cast Pass Without a Trace on us.
Travis: 19. Oh. 29.
Ashley: 24.
Laura: 33.
Liam: 30.
Marisha: 32.
Taliesin: 23.
Sam: 20.
Matt: All right.
Ashley: We're quiet.
Travis: He rolled anyway.
Matt: All right, as you guys leap into the high grass, moving around the outside of Westruun, eyes peeled, as the sun sets and the night kicks in, you try your best to watch for any patrols that are keeping an eye. Make a perception check.
Travis: 13.
Sam: 16.
Marisha: 19.
Taliesin: 20.
Liam: 22.
Laura: 32.
Ashley: 23.
Matt: All right. The three of you guys glance over and you do see there is a patrol of three individuals, one of which appears to be goliath in nature, the other two humanoid of some degree. In the distance, it's hard to see this far away. And they're patrolling the same area where you guys came through before. It appears like the patrol has increased, like there's a mildly heightened state of awareness that something bad went down recently. However, you stay far enough away and out of sight, they do not catch visual on you and eventually you get enough distance northward where you feel like they haven't really noticed.
Travis: Did we pass the area that we were at before, where the farmer, Frederick?
Matt: Yeah, you passed that area, yeah.
Travis: Did we see him?
Matt: You did not see him, no.
Laura: Was his name Frederick? No, it was with an 'r'.
Sam: Can we go to that place?
Travis: Reggie. Reginald, sorry.
Sam: Can we sneak there, can Vax sneak there? What was the man's name who we killed?
Laura: Oh, that you killed?
Travis: Horace.
Sam: No no no, the goliath.
Travis: Horace.
Sam: Vax, can you go get Horace's head?
Taliesin: Okay, that's a good idea.
Liam: Yeah, I can get that.
Taliesin: I take that back, that's a great idea.
Liam: I don't know why, but I can get that.
Matt: So you're heading forward to do that?
Laura: I rolled a better stealth than him, though.
Matt: Make a new stealth check. As you guys hold back and you--
Laura: Oh, that's so much better! No, it's good.
Liam: 39.
Matt: 39, okay. So as you guys wait in the back, staying low to the grass, you watch as Vax dives into the field and vanishes. You, darting in a forward way, find your way to the outside of the initial crop-grid. There does not appear to be any guards that are watching this property. You recall the various avenues you guys utilized in systematically making your way from path to path. It takes you a few minutes, but you manage to find an area that looks familiar enough where you find your way into the center of one of the crop lanes where the corpse of Horace recently was. Roll a perception check.
Liam: 27.
Matt: 27. You get there and you glance about. But the body's gone.
Liam: Fuck.
Matt: Body's not there, it's taken. You start following the trail, you see where maybe it was dragged off. Make a survival roll.
Liam: Survival roll? Well, I'm going to use Luck, because I slept. Yeah. 18.
Matt: 18, okay, so you find signs of his body being dragged and you start trying to find the direction it was taken. You dart along, once again keeping within the crops as best you can to stay out of sight. You make your way out of the northern side of it before the trail disappears. You do not know where the body was taken, other than north and outward. You glance over and all you see is the original farmhouse where Reginald was living, there's the crops out there, there's the big scarecrow that was in the center. There wasn't a scarecrow before. You look over real close and you see, strung up across a haphazard wooden spike, arms out, is the currently being pecked apart body of Reginald, who apparently suffered the brunt of the discovery of Horace's corpse in the time that has transpired since you last left Westruun.
Liam: Do I sense anything around?
Matt: At the moment? No. The patrol's probably a good ten minutes before it's seeming, because it's headed in the direction where you are but you don't know, probably take ten or 15 minutes before they reach where you are.
Liam: I'm going to stealth up to the body. Cut him down.
Matt: Okay. Cut the ropes off, he slumps down.
Liam: I shoulder him back to the group.
Matt: Okay. Make a stealth check with disadvantage.
Liam: 20.
Laura: 30.
Liam: 25. 35.
Matt: Okay. Though he wasn't a very heavy individual, and especially now that he's been out to dry for at least a couple days, most of the bloat has worn off and the-- not going into graphic detail, elements of the corpse have been left behind. You bring most of him with you through the grass over to the rest of the group. You guys watch as Vax pulls his way up out of the grass, carrying over his shoulder the lifeless body of Reginald.
Liam: Let's all talk about repercussions. And I lay him out.
Taliesin: Well, they know we're here now.
Travis: Do they?
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: I think they thought it was him.
Liam: They did not think the farmer killed Horace.
Travis: We should've sent him off to the camp.
Taliesin: They know we're here now because now his body's missing.
Sam: Also, I assume they tortured him before they killed him.
Taliesin: I don't know if they're that clever.
Sam: Can you talk to the dead?
Liam: These people were in a shit situation, while I don't blame us entirely for this because of where they live now, we must not do anything we're doing lightly. There are many lives at stake, not just Reginald's. Let's just not flit about, here, let's take this seriously, please.
Taliesin: Should've left him up there.
Marisha: What?
Taliesin: Should've cut him down tomorrow. One more day up there would have made no difference to him, and it's going to make a difference to us because we have to move tonight now.
Marisha: Maybe it's a matter of respect, Percy.
Taliesin: Respect him by freeing his daughter.
Travis: I agree.
Laura: They know we're here.
Taliesin: They know we're here.
Laura: They're going to see he's missing.
Marisha: I think they already knew we were here.
Taliesin: I don't think they did.
Travis: I don't think they did either.
Liam: Scanlan, can you make a fake stupid body, can you make a scarecrow?
Sam: Not really. Not really.
Liam: Can any of us?
Laura: I can fashion something.
Taliesin: No, tonight's fine. There's nothing wrong with tonight. I just figure, if we do it, and we should do it, and obviously this is nothing if not a sign that we should've done it sooner.
Sam: Why don't we just burn the whole field? They won't know if there's a body in there or not.
Taliesin: That was our reasoning last time, no, we do this, I think we do this tonight.
Marisha: We do this tonight?
Ashley: I could cast Speak with Dead and we could ask him some questions.
Sam: We could.
Ashley: We could ask him up to five questions.
Sam: Let's do it.
Taliesin: All right.
Matt: So you guys quietly press down in a small area of grass to give you enough of a space for you to go ahead and perform this ritual. As you lay the body down, you look up to the sky and where some of the cloud cover that is slowly drawing over the area, there's a little gap in the clouds, and as you look up to the now-visible stars, you whisper Sarenrae's name, look down at the body, touch it with your hand, and the still corpse, the chest begins to rise and fall with an unnatural breath for the time being. The eyes begin to twitch and move around. No physical movement beyond that, but the mouth slowly draws open and you hear, while the lips do not move, you hear a voice emanate through like an exhale. "You returned."
Laura: Reginald. We're so sorry.
Matt: "I knew what I was getting into. Do not fret or blame."
Laura: We will rescue your daughter.
Travis: Five questions. Vax. Make it count.
Taliesin: Do they know we're coming?
Liam: Me?
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: I think we can all ask.
Liam: Reginald, how much do your murderers know? About us?
Matt: "I told them it was me. They should not and could not know your intent to return."
Sam: Can he describe the one who did it?
Liam: Go ahead, Scanlan.
Sam: Hi. Sorry. The ones who did you in. Other than large and pale, were there any distinguishing marks or names thrown about?
Matt: "They brought me to one of their leaders. Half-tattooed face and brow and rags. His jaw, once broken, pushes to one side. I know not the name."
Travis: Do I understand that description?
Matt: You recall the tattoo, and you recall the moment the jaw was broken.
Travis: I was wondering.
Matt: This was Zanror.
Sam: This was who?
Travis: Kevdak's son.
Liam: He broke it. Grog broke it.
Laura: Oh shit.
Taliesin: What are the things that we face inside the city? What should we fear inside the city?
Matt: "Fear those that are fueled by rage, skilled with weapons, and those that call the elements their own. And the dragon does come."
Travis: Does come. One more question, can we ask if he's seen the dragon or how long it's been?
Sam: Go ahead.
Travis: We thank you for your time. If we may, how long has it been since the dragon was last here?
Matt: "Two days."
Laura: It's coming tomorrow.
Travis: Two days, it's coming back. Okay.
Laura: That means tomorrow it's coming back.
Sam: We can wait another day. How many more questions?
Laura: Is that it, or one more?
Sam: No, we get five.
Taliesin: We have one more if we want it.
Sam: What would you like us to tell your daughter?
Matt: "Tell her that my life was given so she could live hers. And my memory lives in her eyes." And with that, the head just lolls back a little bit, the jaw hangs open, the last of the breath in the chest (exhales) and the magic fades.
Taliesin: Vax. We have to put it back.
Liam: Yes.
Marisha: They don't know we're here. It could be anyone who could've cut him down. Why would they suspect us? I would suspect the village people first.
Travis: I would too, and I'm the smartest of them all.
Laura: Which is actually worse. We need to put something back up. I don't want anyone else to get hurt.
Taliesin: He's going to save his daughter one last time, we're going to put him back up for one day. We're going to wait for the dragon to pass, and then he will be buried on his land properly with stone and dirt.
Liam: Yes. I'll take him. Yes.
Taliesin: Thank you. And thank you for bringing him. This was helpful.
Ashley: Can we give him a proper burial?
Travis: No, we're going to put him back up.
Ashley: We're going to put him back up, that's what you. Sorry.
Matt: Vax, are you taking the corpse back? Stealth check with disadvantage.
Liam: Disadvantage.
Matt: Yeah, carrying him along, man.
Liam: Oh, it's all right, though, 35.
Taliesin: Jesus Christ.
Matt: Rogues. Coming back, as you approach the outside you can see now the patrol has skirted by and you have to wait patiently, but not wait too long because you know you have about a 30-second window before they will come into sight of this farmstead. Using that, you dart forward, take the body, thrust it up, trying to catch-- I want you to go ahead and make a dexterity check to see how fast you can utilize what rope is at your disposal.
Liam: Just straight dexterity? 17.
Matt: 17. With that, you throw the body up, look over your shoulder, grab out, pull out bits of twine you have, a piece of rope or a piece of your shirt that you (tearing noise) tear off to the side, and fashion a quick knot over one arm and the other, you look over your shoulder again, you can see the shadow of them beginning to just turn around the side, you get the other arm up, just manage to slump it over the wood. You know there isn't any more time, and with that you duck back underneath the grass and vanish. He's haphazardly up and one arm is not actually tied, it's just kind of laid over it, but he's currently back on the wooden stake, across.
Liam: Better than what it was.
Matt: As you dart back and slowly return to your group, glancing over in that direction, the patrol doesn't seem to take notice and continues walking past.
Travis: So am I the only one that, while we wait, is itching for a fight?
Laura: Grog.
Travis: I'm sorry, look, it's just who I am.
Sam: Well listen, if you want a fight, we could still use one of their heads. We could find one of those patrolmen walking around, grab him, take his head.
Taliesin: Too soon.
Travis: Too soon.
Marisha: Did we not just learn anything?
Liam: We're going to be fighting soon enough. I think everyone should hide inside your love shack and my sister and I should wait here in the grass and watch and wait. And when the dragon comes, we alert you all.
Taliesin: We wait for a dragon pass. The day after the dragon passes, we strike.
Laura: I agree.
Travis: Okay.
Marisha: Let's go.
Matt: You guys, most of you, other than the twins, head into the magnificent mansion. An evening that is restful by definition but still wracked with tension and anxiety. You guys watch throughout the night, relatively uneventful, though a cool evening. Without building a fire, you both do have to keep bundled up against the elements. It's not cold enough to the point where it's going to be impactful, but it is chilly.
Liam: I fart a lot.
Matt: The farting does keep you warm, Vax.
Taliesin: I want to tinker for the evening as well.
Matt: Make another tinker check.
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: 21. Okay. You made headway. You've constructed a portion of the seat and the apparatus that connects it to the broom without interfering with the enchantment. Right now it's testing that and then getting the stirrups and making sure that it's functional and not going to get her killed.
Taliesin: Whatever night we have time, I want to keep poking at that.
Marisha: Can I also spend some time practicing a Protection from Energy potion?
Matt: Want to go ahead and utilize the delightfully presented brewing vicinity in the--
Marisha: I do.
Matt: All right, sure.
Marisha: Not enough to where I can't, you know, sleep, but just, you know.
Taliesin: I'm going to lend her my resist lightning ring so that she can study it and hopefully come up with a resist energy potion.
Matt: Okay. I'll say, what level is that?
Marisha: Protection from Energy is a 3rd-level spell. (musical tone)
Matt: I don't know what that was.
Taliesin: Matt Mercer, white courtesy phone. Matt Mercer, white courtesy phone.
Matt: Now reaching housewares, spell scrolls.
Liam: Kevdak, you are wanted at the front gates.
Matt: Third, that would be an uncommon spell scroll, that would put it, I'd say that'd put it about-- how many gold pieces? I'd say you begin the process of brewing one.
Marisha: All right.
Matt: It'll take you a little while to get that done.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: A few days, at the very least. All right, so.
Sam: Grog. Just before tomorrow and stuff, Kevdak.
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: His son is--
Travis: Zanror.
Sam: Zanror.
Travis: It's spelled-- it's spelled like this. And then like it sounds.
Sam: Sure, sure. Standard spelling. What about anyone else I need to know about? Who you were familiar with or had a relationship with?
Travis: Nah. Not any longer.
Sam: All right, so, we're still resting, right?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: So I'm going to knock on Pike's door. (knocking sound)
Ashley: I don't answer. No, I'm just kidding.
Sam: (whispers) I can still get in.
Ashley: Hi, Scanlan.
Sam: Hello. Did you get your robe and everything and your slippers?
Ashley: Oh, yes, slippers and everything.
Sam: The monogram?
Ashley: Yes, it's great, thank you so much. P.T.
Sam: And the scented candles?
Ashley: Yes, it smells so good in here. Thank you.
Sam: Great, great. If you need anything, there's two bells next to your bed, there's one to call servants and there's one for me.
Ashley: Oh, thank you, Scanlan.
Sam: The purple one is mine.
Marisha: Percy and I strategize.
Taliesin: We're doing strategies.
Sam: Great. Listen, there's been a lot of death recently and, well, just, I might die and stuff so, ah. Just don't read this until I do.
Liam: Can I read it?
Laura: Don't!
Ashley: What is this?
Laura: Pass it over.
Liam: Do you want to go steady? If yes, check this box.
Ashley: "Do not open" and in parentheses "(until I'm dead)."
Sam: That's all.
Ashley: Well, hopefully I never have to open this.
Sam: I hope so, too. That's all. Have a good night.
Ashley: Bye, Scanlan.
Sam: Bye.
Liam: (whispers) Secrets.
Ashley: I close the door, I open it, and I read it. (cheering)
Taliesin: I'm so proud of you. I'm so proud of you!
Travis: Nobody look, nobody look. Don't you look! Don't you look. Don't you look.
Laura: She's full-on reading it!
Sam: You know what? I love her anyway. (laughter)
Ashley: This is a bit of tome, so I think I should wait to read this, but a part of me-- Oh.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: You clever fucker. Good god.
Ashley: Oh, man. (gasps)
Laura: Oh, I want to know what it says so fucking bad!
Travis: We got to wait for her to finish, because the night is young.
Sam: It's all dick pics. (laughter)
Laura: The cube. Over and over and over again.
Matt: In the meantime, while you're reading that, you guys are doing what?
Taliesin: We were strategizing. We were just, we're figuring out some strategy for how to make this work.
Matt: Okay, fair enough.
Liam: Dick pics hand-drawn by quill.
Taliesin: By candlelight.
Matt: As the evening progresses, you guys rest, preparing yourselves for the next day. You guys--
Laura: We're still outside.
Matt: You guys are woken up right as the sun begins to rise by the distant sound of (roar, sweeping wings).
Travis: Oh, fuck.
Matt: You shake Vax awake and you guys look up from the grass and you can see, coming down from the very very top of Gatshadow, you see the wings unfurled and with each swoosh down, the gargantuan black dragon streaks down, dive bombs just past the Bramblewood, and scoots over the entire city of Westruun, making its presence known. As it just roars out (roar, sweeping wings), circling over the city twice, three times, as you see lights going on in the city. As it goes over three times, seemingly content that it's made its presence known and asserted its vocal dominance over the vicinity by instilling some early-morning fear in the denizens of this town, the dragon then lands a little bit northwest of the city itself. It's hard to make out exactly what's happening at this distance, but you see it, at its size, circle around an area, scrape into the dirt a bit, take a moment, makes a couple of grumbled (snarls). Takes one of its claws and scoops up a large cart that has apparently a few sacks inside of it. And its wings (sweeping wings). It begins taking up in the air again and you can see now there are three goliaths that are walking away from the point. As the dragon turns and scoops one up in its other claw. And the two others turn around and watch it as it takes off towards the top of the mountain, unable to do anything.
Laura: That's one less fuck we have to worry about.
Matt: Up onto Gatshadow.
Taliesin: So we're watching the other two head back towards the--
Matt: Nobody sees this except for the twins.
Travis: No windows? Okay.
Matt: No, you guys are in another plane. You look out the window and it's just like this purple expanse.
Liam: It seems like a slim thread of hope, but perhaps the underlings are not entirely satisfied with this arrangement? Just scooped one up.
Laura: It's possible. I have a feeling they're having a hard time finding any sort of hoard to offer after this many days.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Fuck.
Liam: It's a long shot, but you told me about those giants.
Laura: Yes?
Liam: When you were with Zahra, and they turned. We shouldn't rely on it.
Laura: It's possible. If Grog can take control of the Herd, they may be able to fight with us. But I wouldn't trust them.
Liam: No.
Laura: We need to tell the others.
Liam: Yep.
Matt: You guys find your way back to the door, entering the mansion. Servants have already, at the sound of you entering, begin to appear out of their spectral, ethereal states, bowing to you, offering to take your coat.
Liam: Chicken, please.
Matt: "Right away, sir." And they drift off to prepare your bountiful breakfast. Eventually you go ahead and begin to muster the rest of your party down towards the breakfast area, and the rest of you come to consciousness and find your way to where the food is being served and Vex and Vax both wait, rather stone-faced, and prepared to speak.
Laura: Well. Dragon came. Not happy. You'll be glad to know, however, that it took one of your Herd away with it.
Taliesin: I imagine the offering was a little light.
Laura: Yes, that's what I think as well.
Travis: From the three that were walking around?
Laura: Yes.
Travis: What did the other two do?
Laura: Not much. What are you going to do when a dragon comes and takes someone away? Stand there and watch, really.
Liam: Your buddy Horace made it sound like it was easy street, but I don't know if that's entirely accurate.
Travis: We can use that.
Laura: They may not be very happy with the dragon right now. They may not care at all.
Taliesin: They may not be very happy with leadership that leaves them in a place where they're being taken advantage of. That's very clever. Might be time to move on.
Sam: Move on? Move in?
Taliesin: For them to leave.
Sam: Oh, for them to move on.
Taliesin: This is not a good deal for them anymore.
Laura: So we start today, yes?
Taliesin: I think it starts today.
Marisha: I think it starts right now.
Sam: Want to go in?
Travis: Well, I haven't had my morning shit yet, but as soon as I do--
Laura: While Grog shits, I'm just going to take a little nap, while he's shitting, it takes a while usually, right?
Marisha: Sure, yeah, yeah.
Liam: Same, same.
Taliesin: He'll play Candy Crush.
Laura: Something to recover a little bit of time.
Sam: Want me to guard the door?
Travis: I don't think I need it this time. (laughter)
Laura: I'll be right back.
Travis: What, you really got to go?
Laura: Oh no. Blocked.
Sam: She's going to go take a shit.
Laura: Don't say that!
Liam: Laura doesn't shit!
Sam: No, she doesn't.
Travis: All right. Yeah, then we do it. And we do it the way we said. Right?
Sam: You want me to go in, draw out as many as I can, but wait, no, first we have to prepare a trap, don't we? Isn't there a trap to be prepared?
Marisha: Yes, I can dig a trench pretty quickly, honestly, if we want to go the trench route? Is that we were thinking?
Travis: Now here's the thing. Sorry.
Sam: You need to be inside the city gates as well.
Travis: Well, hold on, what were you going to say?
Ashley: No, I, go.
Travis: So if we try and build that trench outside, right, we risk being seen and then pop goes the weasel. If you go in--
Sam: While I'm in, you can build the trench.
Travis: Well, what, can you go in looking like me, or can you go in looking like me on fire?
Sam: Go in and what?
Travis: Can you conjure just me, or could you be me as a walking flame?
Sam: Hmm, that would be harder. Yeah, that would be harder to do, to pull off, you're big. You're pretty big.
Travis: Oh I know, this is like a one-time thing for me, so I figured I'd just do it rockstar. I just want to see what it looks like.
Sam: If someone else set me on literal fire, I could, but I wouldn't--
Travis: We'll stand down from that idea, it was just a thought, no problem.
Taliesin: There's no bad idea when we're workshopping.
Sam: Spitballing, spitballing.
Travis: If we want to do the trench, we have to wait for nightfall.
Sam: I was going to make myself look like you, but a dead version of you. A zombified Grog.
Travis: I'm all right with that. Can I hear your best undead Grog?
Sam: (Grog voice) Right. So. Right so I'm. Ugh, I'm so dead.
Liam: Maybe you don't say anything. (laughter)
Sam: No, no, I just have to warm up, ah, mimimimi, right, right, rrrr. Cor, all right then, I've been dead for about five, six years.
Travis: It's amazing, it's like a verbal mirror. So, if we do the trench, though, we have to-- Percy--
Marisha: I could theoretically dig the trench possibly without anybody noticing, like tunnel underground and just tunnel it out and maybe even, you know. Leave like a thin layer of dirt, possibly? I dunno. Maybe.
Liam: Like Dig Dug.
Marisha: Like Dig Dug. Exactly the same thing.
Sam: Wait, can't you just shape earth without affecting the surface of it, I mean, can't you just shape the underneath of it?
Marisha: That's what I'm saying.
Sam: No one will even see it being moved.
Marisha: And I could possibly maybe carve it thin enough to where when they run over it it'll collapse.
Travis: Percy, what was your idea?
Taliesin: And mix a little black powder into the dirt.
Marisha: Well, I was also hoping, oh, and explode it as they run by--
Taliesin: Hit it with lightning and it'll go up.
Marisha: Also, if we could maybe have something fancy at the bottom of it to, you know. Finish them off.
Taliesin: Do we have something fancy to put at the bottom?
Sam: We have a bear.
Travis: If we do the ditch for the people that're coming out of the city, we waste it if it's not Zanror and Kevdak. If we go in--
Laura: At least it gets them out of commission.
Marisha: Yeah, I thought the trench was to thin the herd.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Literally.
Laura: Good. I like it.
Sam: So, wait, is there a gate to the city?
Matt: There are multiple entrances to the city. The few that you've seen are guarded with outward-facing defensive spikes and pikes that are set up to prevent any sort of like cavalry entry or just as a warning.
Liam: I have a question.
Matt: Yes.
Liam: For Grog. (crash in the background)
Sam: (laughs) What the hell's going on there tonight?
Liam: We fought your father and he was dead. What's the last thing the Herd has heard of your father?
Travis: I don't know. Last thing I remember, I was looking up at my father. And the rest of my Herd. He made no move to save me.
Liam: Well. I don't know how he got there, but we saved you from your father and the dead guy deep underground, so they lost him at some point. What if instead of Grog, you appeared as Grog's dad?
Sam: I don't know what Grog's dad looks like.
Liam: Yes you do, you fought him. He was a rotting corpse in front of you trying to kill you.
Travis: Way back in the beginning.
Sam: Of course. How could I forget? (laughter)
Liam: Make yourself look like that, I'm not exactly sure what that would do.
Taliesin: It could be interesting.
Liam: It could be interesting.
Marisha: I mean, it could also further instill Grog being powerful and undead.
Taliesin: Yes, that's actually even better.
Laura: If he brought his father back to fight underneath him.
Marisha: With him, right, like he's a necromancer.
Liam: And Kevdak would think that Grog's father was serving him.
Marisha: Yes.
Liam: And he wouldn't feel pissy if he saw one Grog do a magic trick and then the other Grog sprang up and said, "Fight me instead." It would seem more real.
Sam: What was your dad's name?
Liam: Larry?
Taliesin: Curly.
Marisha: Moe.
Matt: Do you remember? It was Stonejaw. So Stonejaw Strongjaw. (laughter)
Liam: Wow.
Sam: That's a terrible name!
Taliesin: That's embarrassing.
Laura: Wow.
Liam: That's like George Foreman IV.
Laura: He had an intelligence of four.
Matt: I know, yeah.
Travis: It's a repressed memory, all right?
Taliesin: All right.
Travis: He comes up never.
Liam: This is George Foreman.
Liam: This is also George Foreman. These three guys are also George Foreman.
Marisha: This is also George Foreman. These three guys are also George Foreman.
Matt: Other brother Darryl.
Taliesin: All right. So I say you, your dad, and maybe Pike walk up to the front door and then we get ready to hit them with the doozy once things start.
Marisha: All right, give me a little bit of time to dig a ditch.
Taliesin: No Pike?
Travis: No. If I walk in, I want to walk in on my own.
Laura: So this is only your fake father walking up at this point.
Travis: As the distraction, right?
Laura: Yes.
Laura: Done.
Taliesin: You're going to lure them out and we're going to hit them when they come out.
Sam: Okay, but wait. I've got to bring them out of a specific gate where there's going to be a trap and if you go in and rescue any other civilians, you have to bring them out through a different gate that doesn't have a trap at it.
Marisha: We're not going to worry about that.
Taliesin: We're not going to evacuate several thousand people, it's just not going to happen.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: We're going to kill Kevdak. He's going to kill Kevdak.
Sam: All right. I'm ready to do this except for a few holes in our plan.
Travis: Yeah, go ahead.
Sam: I don't run very fast. (laughter)
Sam: Maybe if I Polymorph as a goliath, I would have their speed, right?
Ashley: What if you borrow my boots that levitate? Then you can--
Sam: I can't move myself, though, I couldn't just, I would be the Dread Pirate Roberts.
Matt: There will be no survivors.
Ashley: All right, all right, bad idea.
Sam: But if I am Polymorphed as a goliath, would I gain their-- all their abilities and--
Matt: Their movement speed, yes.
Sam: Intelligence?
Matt: Yeah. It's everything--
Taliesin: So why not just look like them and if you need to you can make a bubble?
Liam: You know what would make you move pretty fast is a lady rogue with a flying broom.
Laura: That's true, I could be hiding behind you and drag you.
Taliesin: Could have a rope tied to him.
Matt: However, Polymorph is any beast form, if I recall.
Sam: It can't be a man? He's not a beast, that guy?
Matt: A "beast." Yeah, this, you'd be looking at more of an illusion-based spell like Alter Self.
Sam: Oh, well I don't have that. Oh, I have the hat, but it doesn't make me grow, does it?
Matt: No, you'd be a very, very tiny goliath.
Liam: Maybe they'd think it was perspective fuckery like in the Lord of the Rings movies.
Sam: Well, backup plan, I can go in as dead Reginald.
Liam: His dad is much better.
Sam: They killed him, they just killed him, Kevdak's son killed him, Kevdak's son knows who he is.
Marisha: No. They don't care.
Sam: Sure he does, they just killed him two days ago.
Taliesin: Can you remember who you killed two days ago?
Sam: I can, I remember all of them because I barely kill anybody.
Taliesin: Oh, well, that's fair. I don't think they care who he is.
Travis: Right.
Taliesin: I think you showing up at the front doors is the best option at this point.
Marisha: Scanlan, can you do it with an illusion instead of an actual, physical person? Just an illusion?
Sam: My illusions are small in size. I mean, I could just go in as hey, I'm Mr. Scanlan, come chase after me.
Travis: This is your trick. You pick.
Laura: You could be a fucking triceratops again, for all--
Sam: Are they going to chase after a triceratops, though?
Marisha: It could make theoretical sense if you're still undead Stonejaw, because, you know, decomposition I'm sure shrinks you a little bit.
Ashley: What's something that they would chase after?
Liam: Grog.
Travis: Anything that moves.
Marisha: While you guys figure it out, I'm going to start digging a trench.
Taliesin: I'll help. I'm going to get some--
Marisha: No no no, I'm good. I'm good. You stay. I don't want to blow our cover, I'm going to do this all underground.
Taliesin: All right.
Marisha: So outside of the city I'm going to start digging underground and I'm going to start digging a trench.
Matt: All right. So you're using Move Earth?
Marisha: I'm moving earth, I'm going to go underground. And it lasts up to two hours.
Matt: You're going underground to do it?
Marisha: I want to go underground and tunnel towards--
Matt: Okay, I see, and then create like the trench tunnel underneath, okay.
Marisha: And do-- and I want to make it really thin to where there's a nice thin layer of earth, and then I want to make it really deep.
Matt: Okay, Move Earth is a concentration up to two hours.
Marisha: Uh-huh, and I can concentrate on a 40-square-foot for ten minutes. And each ten minutes I can change it.
Matt: If you're doing a 40-foot square it could be like 20 feet lower for every 40-foot square you can do, yeah.
Marisha: Yeah. Yeah. So real deep.
Matt: Okay. So we'll say over the two-hour period you could create, for a 40-foot square, like a hundred feet deep, 120 feet deep--
Marisha: I want to make sure it's wide enough to cover the whole entrance as well.
Matt: The whole entrance? Okay. So you dig underneath. Stealth check to get close enough. Because in digging, it'll take you most of that duration to dig up to the gate.
Marisha: Uh-huh. Underground.
Matt: Yeah. I'd say, so in order to do this, you have to actually get fairly close before you start digging down there.
Marisha: I rolled a 19.
Matt: 19?
Marisha: And I have a stealth of 11.
Matt: Okay. All right, so. You make your way up there, moving through the grass best you can. The guards that are there are partially (yawns) coming to, you begin to slowly manipulate downward into the ground using a relatively untouched patch of high grass for cover, and pushing your way through. Over the next two hours, you manage to dig a ditch, the width of this entrance is about 40 feet.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: So from end to end, if you just go straight down from there at 20 feet per section every ten minutes, looking at 240 feet deep if you wanted to go the full, although, actually, having to tunnel underneath would probably take-- we'll say 180 feet.
Marisha: 180 feet. That'll do.
Laura: Oh my god, that's amazing.
Marisha: And I can make the ground thin enough to where it's not going to support weight, yeah?
Matt: Yeah, you give yourself enough of a buffer where yeah, you could, might require a bit of a jolt, make an intelligence check.
Marisha: Ah, jeez Louise. Ooh. 19.
Matt: Okay. You feel pretty confident that you've left just enough of a surface that it would support a little bit of weight and maintain its placement. But upon the weight of maybe two humanoid-sized individuals, it would probably crumble beneath.
Marisha: Cool. Cool cool cool. Did I get a little black powder from you?
Taliesin: I did, I gave you a little bit of black powder.
Marisha: Can I put a little black powder in the top of the dirt?
Matt: What is a little bit?
Marisha: Whatever he gave me.
Taliesin: I have a little bit left over. I gave her a third of a barrel worth, like twice this.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: So I pepper it in the top, where if it gets hit it's going to go boom.
Taliesin: I'm going to have to deal with it eventually, but I'm fine at the moment.
Matt: Okay. All right. You pepper it on the earth from underneath. Okay.
Marisha: Maybe it works. Maybe. I don't know.
Taliesin: If it's hit by lightning it should be fine.
Marisha: Okay, okay.
Liam: So Grog's father's too big for you, what about the undead severed head of Grog's father?
Sam: I can make an image of that.
Liam: Floating about in the air with Pike's boots.
Laura: Oh my gosh, a floating severed head?
Liam: Saying nasty, nasty, nasty things at the Herd.
Sam: I can do that.
Travis: But he can't move if he's wearing the boots.
Taliesin: He'll be tied to a rope. You can make it move when it's time.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Could you pull him like a balloon?
Sam: I can make the head move.
Marisha: Can you be a floating head inside of a hamster ball?
Sam: I wouldn't need to be the head, I mean, I can't make my body look like a head.
Liam: You can't? I thought you could do anything.
Laura: But you can make the illusion of a head talking.
Sam: I can make the illusion of a head talking. Wizard of Oz-style.
Liam: Can it follow you about?
Marisha: Well, he can be on a roof.
Sam: It would be within 60 feet of me, I think.
Matt: Which one?
Sam: Minor Illusion, I guess.
Matt: Minor Illusion, you could, it's a very minor illusion.
Sam: I know.
Matt: But you could make noise escape from the vicinity of where the head is.
Taliesin: Could I assist with that?
Sam: Because he has Minor Illusion as well.
Matt: If you're close enough to it, it's possible.
Sam: I could also do-- these goliaths, they don't like wyverns. I could be a wyvern.
Laura: The head is so perfect.
Liam: You could be a whole wyvern, but you can't be a goliath?
Sam: It's not a beast, apparently.
Matt: Yeah. Polymorph-- there are higher-level spells that can let you it, but they're a little out of your range.
Sam: A wyvern is a beast?
Taliesin: Okay, we can do the head.
Laura: The head. Be a head! Be a giant, floating, severed head, I like it.
Taliesin: Can you get me out of there once they come to attack?
Laura: Me?
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: I mean, I can use the tether and tie you to the broom.
Taliesin: I'll be the bait.
Matt: A wyvern is a dragon, it is not a beast.
Sam: Huh?
Matt: A wyvern is a dragon, it is not a beast.
Sam: I cannot be a wyvern.
Taliesin: I can be the bait.
Marisha: With the hat? With your hat?
Ashley: How are you going to be the bait?
Sam: Yeah, how are you going to be the bait?
Taliesin: I'm going to have the severed head of your father talking to them.
Sam: Yes, I can do that too, and I can escape. You can't.
Taliesin: Up to you. All right.
Laura: Do it.
Liam: Do it, Scanlan, do it.
Laura: Come on, Scanlan.
Sam: I mean, I can try. Might be shit. How are you going to hide?
Travis: Can I ask this? Let's say we pick this gate where she's digging out this ditch. What is the terrain like on the outside of the wall next to that gate?
Matt: Because of the building, or the structure of it for about 30 feet on the outside of the wall it's mainly just hard-packed dirt and earth from patrols for hundreds of years going around the wall, whether it be carts, beasts of burden, or just people walking all around the outskirts of the town of Westruun, it's very heavy-packed and often-walked earth.
Travis: Zero cover.
Matt: Zero coverage within 30 feet of it, and the grass does thin as it gets close to that. Keyleth had to pick a specific area and get low and even then had to force her way under and use a good, you know, a quarter of her spell time to be able to dig well enough to get past that space.
Travis: Past 30 feet from the wall, from the edge of town, what kind of cover is there? Is there any?
Matt: Not really.
Travis: Not even the tall grass?
Matt: The grass at that point gets about waist- to knee-high, even less so.
Travis: This is an important thing we need to remember. As we're doing all this, let's just assume that we're us and this'll all go tits-up real quick. We're going to be a fucking long way away from you before we can come to help.
Sam: That's why you're going to send Pike with me. No, I'm just kidding, I would never.
Liam: No, but my sister or I could go with you. One of us.
Sam: That would make me feel quite nice.
Taliesin: Sister's good for an escape route.
Travis: We should at least find a forward operating base, a place where we can watch this unfold from cover and figure out how far away we are from the first act of our show.
Taliesin: Well, if everything goes wrong we meet back here at the very least.
Marisha: I mean, theoretically we'll be stationed throughout, and we'll have our earpieces, correct?
Taliesin: Yeah, but I'm just talking about, what if we have to para-rescue his ass out of a fucking pickle?
Taliesin: That's what Vex is for.
Laura: I'm standing nearby on my broom. I'll fly in and pick him up. He can Dimension Door out, though, very quickly.
Marisha: I also have both of my beast shaping, still, so I can always fly in and evac you.
Travis: How far away are we from the entrance now?
Matt: As you guys have plotted this, and Keyleth has come back to you through the grass after creating this tunnel, I'd say you're about 150, 200 feet out.
Taliesin: That's perfect.
Sam: And we know Westruun.
Matt: Yeah, you know it well.
Sam: And I know how far away from the center of town are we--
Travis: Wait a minute, are there sewers in Westruun?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: It's okay.
Travis: I don't know.
Taliesin: We have that option if it comes to it.
Travis: Yeah, I hadn't thought of that.
Taliesin: It's all right. And again, like any good plan, everything will go wrong.
Laura: Yes.
Laura: Let's do it!
Marisha: Let's do it!
Taliesin: It's time.
Matt: The grass dies, begins to die away, and become in-- not helpful for stealth about 80, 70-80 feet outside the wall.
Marisha: Can we get a Pass Without a Trace while we all get to our positions?
Laura: Fuck yeah.
Matt: Okay. Pass Without a Trace, even so, you can't stealth in the open. In order to stealth, you have to have some way of staying out of sight. Once you get to about 70 feet from the wall, it's basically just open ground and the large wall that surrounds Westruun.
Marisha: I could give us a fog cloud.
Laura: Can you dig a hole under and we can hang out in a hole with something over top of it so we can bust up out, like shallow ground?
Marisha: I've already burned it. I mean, we can still go underground, I have a tunnel built to a certain point.
Laura: But we have to be able to get out of it.
Taliesin: Let's just keep our distance, let's get them out of the castle and coming out at us.
Laura: Okay. And then we go in.
Matt: Okay. So. What's the plan? Who's doing what?
Sam: I go invisible and start walking into town.
Laura: We stay at the very edge, stealthed as fuck.
Taliesin: You're not going into town, why are you going into town? We dug a giant pit in front of the main entrance.
Marisha: Yeah, everyone be mindful of the pit, I point it out to everyone where the pit is so we can go around it.
Matt: Okay. To be fair, yeah, and he is a gnome. He is not a very heavy individual. And you were pretty spot-on-- You're fairly certain it can support the weight of a gnome.
Marisha: I can Polymorph a couple people. No. Sorry. I can Polymorph one person as a stealth kind of deal.
Matt: There are the three guards there, about 20 feet in from the main gate, or the main entranceway, one of which appears to be a female goliath, muscular scar-based torso, very thick, dark, dreaded hair that's pulled tightly to the back of her head and hangs down to the mid-back, and you see two humans that are also as rugged-looking, possibly members of the secondary tribe that they adopted, as was mentioned when you first inquired about the tribe as it currently stands, the Herd. They're all just looking out, bored, one of them is chewing on some dried meat, and they're just keeping an eye out. Scanlan, you've gone invisible and you're approaching the front gate. What are you doing?
Sam: Hey, can you cast Pass Without a Trace on me?
Laura: I already did!
Sam: Okay, good. I'm just going to walk in, straight into town.
Matt: Okay. Yeah. Just for the sake of this, go ahead and make a stealth check. With advantage.
Sam: With advantage.
Matt: Yeah, they have very little chance to even notice.
Sam: So 16 plus--
Laura: Ten.
Sam: Plus two. So 28.
Matt: Yeah. Given the circumstance that you're invisible and that advantage roll, even the quietness of your footsteps, you manage to literally walk within five feet of them without them noticing. You hear some low mutters, some of it's just like broken words, "Stupid hungry--" And the larger female goliath is like, "Shut up. Eyes peeled. I hate this." They look very unhappy about having to be stuck there at this watch. So you've moved past them, now.
Sam: All right, I'm going to go into the-- just the center. We had a scouting party go in and see that-- yes we did, yes we did. It was the center of town, and that's where the key people were around, milling about.
Matt: Yeah, the very center of town is about a 15-minute walk from the outside of town.
Taliesin: We can hear everything that happens.
Matt: How long does your invisibility last?
Sam: An hour.
Matt: An hour. Okay. You start coasting through the town, you come towards a T-intersection of where the road continues forward and turns to the right, you can see a number of the buildings, just like you saw previously on you guys' journey, some of them are charred and black from fires that have been set. Some of them, you do notice as you pass by, large elements of the buildings have just dissolved, melted down by some sort of chemical reaction. Many buildings still stand. You do see that there are broken barrels and crates in the streets, it looks like a lot of what may have been in storage or being brought around as commerce has been ransacked and raided or relocated. You do see a couple carts that are half-broken or just up on the side, with whatever's on the inside pulled out. You do manage to see a couple of horses that were killed during some altercation that were just left rotting in the middle of the street. There are no people visible on the street. Make a perception check.
Laura: What time is it?
Matt: At this point now? In the two hours for you to do that digging, it's close to 10:30, 11:00 in the morning.
Sam: 13.
Matt: 13. Okay. You keep walking past, you don't notice anything that catches your attention. You keep moving towards the center of the town. You start moving through the religious district of the middle of Westruun. Make another perception check.
Sam: 19.
Taliesin: Plus.
Sam: Nothing.
Matt: 19. You glance by what you knew previously in Westruun as the central church of Erathis there. It's a rather, in comparison to the rest of the town, a gaudy temple. But it has been defiled fairly heavily. You can see paint, mud, or some other substance has been smeared across parts of it, portions of the rock have been pushed over and collapsed. You do glance and see a small humanoid peeking through one of the ajar doors that you see, for a second you see a set of eyes, then it sees you and closes the door.
Laura: It saw you?
Sam: Oh, shit. Fuck, he knows I'm there, I got to keep going. I got to keep going, yeah.
Laura: You're invisible!
Sam: Yeah. (laughs) Yeah.
Matt: You keep moving towards the very, very center of town, moving past a couple of other patrols. You've passed, even in just this journey into the center of-- journey to the center of Westruun-- you've passed roughly 30 or so well-armed, relatively savage individuals that mark the same civilized level of Grog, give or take some further steps into society. Many of them are wearing pieces of clothing that have been taken from this town, they're dressed better than their station, you know, rough-looking, big, thick, unshaven faces for the humans, but they're still like dressed in pompous clothing that's partially torn and smeared. They're a walking parody of the people that once ruled this town, and they seem to know it. They're enjoying this gloating. Eventually you make your way to the central town square, which is not far from where the Margrave's home is. This area, you do notice, has been set up as a defensive central location. There are just barriers and barricades of all sorts of furniture that have been nailed together and this has been made an assault post, where if anyone were to attempt to attack the center of this town, this would be a wonderful defensive position for someone to hole up and wait it out, whether it be against other people or a dragon. It has been built with the best of their ability in that regard. And there are a number of weapons that they've taken from the city that have been bolted in, that have been strapped around, so there's just like jagged edges of halberds and whatever blades they could muster in every direction, therefore if anything wasn't being very careful and running through here, they could be easily shoved into one of these hazards or perhaps even pushed onto it as a means of display. Which you do notice, on a number of these, various heads are currently placed as warning symbols, in varying states of decay. You recognize two of the heads. One of which is--
Laura: No no no no no.
Matt: Sorry. One of them you recognize as the Margrave who once ruled Westruun, whose home Kevdak currently keeps as his own. And the other, let's see if I can recall what this one is. I have it written down here.
Taliesin: I like that this is that deep in your notes, is which heads are on spikes.
Matt: Hey, man, got to keep up with this.
Sam: Appendix A  Heads on Spikes, Various.
Matt: (laughs) Pretty much.
Sam: Subappendix  Westruun.
Matt: Ah, okay, here we go. Here we go. Okay. Loran the Bear. Loran the Bear was a mercenary that you guys faced off with the first time that you fought in the brawlers' league. You guys had a playful rivalry? You kept running into each other when looking for various--
Taliesin: It's like a best of season one, that's great.
Sam: The season that didn't air.
Taliesin: The season that didn't air.
Matt: But there you see him, or what remains of him, placed on one of these weapons. It looks like anybody who has attempted to rise up or at least make a stink about the current ruling class in Westruun have been put on display in this square in some way, shape, or form.
Sam: Are there any people? Guards? Goliaths?
Matt: You see a rather heavy group of well-armored goliaths and other savage-looking humanoid individuals. Mostly human, you see a couple half-orcs, but it's a total of ten of them that are all currently scattered throughout this central area, some of them just sitting down, snacking, a few that are just keeping watch, and a number that are hovering in and out of the door of the main area, giving orders and carrying some small supplies around.
Sam: Okay. So I'll just quickly-- are you guys ready?
Marisha: Do we want to get up on the wall? There's like a wall, right, around the city?
Sam: Yeah, but I'm in the center of the city.
Matt: Right. Also, there's no response.
Laura: Oh, he's out of range. Shit.
Sam: Do you know what the range is on that?
Matt: The range on those earpieces are roughly two miles.
Sam: Two miles.
Laura: He's out of two miles' range?
Matt: Well yeah, Westruun's a pretty big town, and it's--
Laura: It's a 15-minute walk, though.
Sam: Yeah, I walk fast.
Laura: You're a fast walker for a gnome.
Marisha: He really is a really fast walker.
Taliesin: Okay, go ahead.
Marisha: I cast Polymorph on Percy and turn him into a crow.
Taliesin: (eerily good crow noise)
Laura: Oh, again with the crows.
Marisha: Also, I use my beast shape to go into a crow. (crow noise)
Taliesin: (eerily good crow noise)
Marisha: (crow noise)
Taliesin: That's good enough, that's good.
Marisha: And we fly to the walls and perch on opposite sides on the entrance.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Look, your god is here to help us.
Marisha: (crow noises)
Laura: She sounds like shit.
Marisha: (a panoply of crow noises)
Taliesin: (a panoply of crow noises)
Matt: Stop it.
Taliesin: Sorry. (laughter)
Taliesin: It's really pleasing.
Matt: All right. You guys are perched on the edges of that. Scanlan, what're you doing?
Sam: So much. So much.
Laura: I feel like this is the first time I've seen you at a loss.
Travis: Look at those eyes.
Laura: Oh god.
Taliesin: Don't you want her to read the note?
Sam: Yeah, I go over to where the most people are congregated.
Matt: That's going to be right at the steps of the Margrave's manor.
Sam: I position myself about seven feet away from them.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: And I cast Thunderwave.
Matt: And with that, (explosion), this burst of thunder comes blasting out centrally from where you are located, Scanlan. The DC on this, with your--
Sam: Thunderwave. Oh, is it spell?
Matt: It's spell, what's your DC?
Sam: 20.
Matt: 20.
Taliesin: Oh shit.
Matt: Okay. Six fail, one succeeds on this save. So you hit them and they're all forced backwards, some of them up onto the stairs, some against the wall. Roll 2d8 points of damage.
Liam: Ragdoll physics.
Sam: 2d8?
Matt: Mm-hmm.
Sam: No, it's-- oh, that's, you're right.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: 11 plus something? No, I guess it's just 11.
Matt: It's just 11. All right, and one of them takes five points of damage and (impact sound) looks down at this little gnome that's there.
Sam: No, no, I'm still invisible. It's not a concentration spell.
Matt: Invisibility, I'm pretty sure that as soon as you do--
Sam: Oh, fuck.
Matt: The spell ends for a target that attacks or casts a spell.
Sam: Casts a spell?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Even though it's a concentration spell?
Matt: Yeah, you can cast other instantaneous spells, but as soon as you cast a spell you become visible.
Sam: What?
Matt: High-level invisibility, improved invisibility is the one that remains.
Sam: Oh well, I'm fucked, then. (laughter)
Taliesin: Yes!
Matt: I'll say, do you have Greater Invisibility?
Sam: No. I can cast it at a greater level, but no, I don't have Greater Invisibility.
Matt: Yeah, at that moment you suddenly become visible.
Taliesin: Roll with it, roll with it.
Sam: Hi guys. Hi.
Marisha: But you're Scanlan, you can do this.
Matt: The surprise round, they weren't expecting it. Roll initiative right now.
Marisha: Oh shit.
Laura: Oh my god, Scanlan, run.
Sam: 16.
Matt: Rolled a one. I'm rolling them group initiative on this one, because I don't want to roll six different initiatives in this order. They all look at you dumbfounded. "We got an intruder!" Pull out their weapons, get ready. Two of them (growl) at you really angrily. What are you doing?
Sam: Fuck!
Matt: What are you doing, Sam?
Sam: This is not the plan!
Taliesin: No! No!
Travis: Don't say a thing, don't say shit.
Laura: Okay, yeah yeah, it's all you.
Sam: (mock-crying) At least I know that Pike didn't read the letter, though, so I'm okay. (laughter)
Taliesin: At the end of this fight, can I have your tie? I mean, you're not going to need it anymore.
Travis: Come on, what are you doing?
Sam: Okay. I'll Dimension Door into the house where the guy's eyeballs were.
Travis: Yes! I like it.
Matt: Wait, on the, to the house--
Sam: The house where I saw the guy who was peeking and saw me, he saw me, I'm going in there.
Matt: Oh!
Laura: What?
Liam: Smart.
Matt: How far is the range on Dimension Door?
Sam: 500 feet. Was that long ago or recently?
Matt: Wait, so. You were peeking, are you referring to the--
Sam: The guy who saw me as invisible.
Matt: Right. Okay, got you. All right, so you're going to that temple. That's probably about 1000 feet from you, you can Dimension Door closer to it.
Sam: Yes, I could. I could. Okay, okay. This is exciting, this is so exciting, nothing's working. Okay, yes, I will go toward it 500 feet.
Matt: Okay. You appear to the back end and around the road, just around the corner from where the entrance to that area is, so you're a little ways away. As you appear, catching your breath, you look over your shoulder and you hear in the distance more, a couple yells, and a bell starts going off (ringing) in the center of the town square.
Sam: It's going great, guys.
Laura: Do we hear the bell?
Matt: You guys can hear in the very distance a series of bells beginning to go (ringing).
Taliesin: Oh, sweet Jesus.
Matt: What're you doing now?
Sam: Well, they haven't caught up to me, right?
Matt: No no, you just moved 500 feet in one second, they have no idea where you went. You just showed up, went "Bye!" and vanished out.
Liam: Bell is bad. He's in trouble, we need to go in now.
Sam: I'm going to go again, Dimension Door into the temple.
Matt: Okay, you do see the temple. You're on the interior of it now, and looking inside you know a portion of it is collapsed, there's an open view on the second level where a whole corner of the secondary floor and first floor have fallen in, big pile of rubble, you can see the sky. There as you appear, you look around, you hear a series of gasps as you can now see huddled inside of this temple roughly 30 or so people, varying ages, varying racial backgrounds. These are some of the survivors in Westruun that are keeping in here, whether it be hidden, or at least this is where they live now. They look in various states of personal brutality that's been put against them, some of them are wounded, a few of them draw weapons immediately, and turning around, you see hunkered down inside a half-orc that rushes around, his hat half-kilter, his coat up with his shoulder, mantle part of his collar pressed upward, spins around, puts his blade out. "You've got to be kidding me. Scanlan Shorthalt."
Sam: That's me.
Matt: As Dr. Dranzel stands there before you. (cheering)
Matt: They themselves look a little worse for wear, and he looks over his shoulder and says, "Well shit, Kaylie, weren't you just talking about him yesterday?" As your daughter stands behind him, holding two of the children, trying to protect them as you appeared. She looks up at you and goes, "Oh, you've got to be kidding me." And that's where we'll end tonight's game. (yelling)
Travis: Perfect! Perfect, perfect.
Taliesin: Put that on like a Japanese businessman.
Liam: By the way, this one, under her breath, goes, "Oh I don't like him, he stole from me."
Sam: That's all you can think about?
Laura: Why am I cheering? He stole from us.
Sam: They're going to fucking save my life.
Liam: Well, maybe he needed it to save the world.
Matt: It's all survival. All right, then we'll pick it up from there next week.
Travis: Jesus. That was a hell of a 50th. Fuck's sake!
Taliesin: Why did we even bother to plan?
Taliesin: Why do we even bother to plan?
Marisha: Why do we even bother to plan?
Travis: It's going perfect! It's going perfectly. We are still on the rails. It is working.
Taliesin: We are still on the rails, it'll be great.
Marisha: I spent a 6th-level spell building that trench, it had better come in handy.
Ashley: It will, it will.
Taliesin: We're all going to fall and die in it, it's going to be great.
Liam: Scanlan is drunken master.
Matt: All righty, guys, we're going to go ahead and take a few minutes here to hunker down and prepare for the savage unwrapping of many presents that you, the community of Critical Role, have put in our direction. All of us so eternally undeserving, but so incredibly appreciative of all that you guys do, both to help with the charities that we support and spend your time being so awesome and creative and we're going to go ahead and--
Sam: Matt, though, but what are we going to do with the minutes while we're not on camera right now? How do we fill the airtime?
Matt: We'll, I'm sure, have a few videos to show that may also include our new intro.
Taliesin: Again! Again!
Marisha: Again! Again!
Laura: Again! Again!
Marisha: We're mainly doing this for our own selfishness. [end of transcript]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors roll dice and play Dungeons & Dragons. So, welcome. I know we had a two-week hiatus. We had some birthdays-- in fact, the twins had a birthday. (cheering)
Matt: Awesome. A lot of really amazing community art came out of it, because you guys are ridiculous, and we'll probably see some of that at the break today. But before we kick into the game, let's get through our announcements for the evening while we also wait for Mr. Sam Riegel, Scanlan, who I think we all can consider is pretty important to tonight's events, seeing as how he's currently being digested in the belly of the dragon.
Laura: Oh shit!
Travis: Oh shit!
Liam: That didn't happen.
Matt: Yes it did. Yes it did. No. So. Starting off our announcements for the evening: first off, I am going to be flying out bright and early tomorrow morning to A-Kon in Dallas. I'll be out there doing panels and signings with a bunch of other great guests. I understand the same weekend is also Dallas Comic Con, because what the fuck, Dallas? At which Mary and Steve are there also, so don't choose: come to both! No.
Travis: Wade the waters.
Matt: Exactly. But I'll be doing signings, panels, and meeting a bunch of you Critters that are out in that area, so come by and say hi this weekend. And if not, go say hi to Steve and Mary, wherever that happens, in the lesser part of Dallas. I don't know if it is, I just like--
Travis: Yeah, there's a lesser part of Dallas, totally, over with the lesser-- are you guys throwing up because of how nervous you are?
Laura: What? No. Oh, my dice! Where are my dice?!
Matt: Where are your dice?
Laura: I'm so nervous, I don't even have my dice!
Travis: I'll go find them, I'll go find them.
Matt: Travis is going to get them. Wow. Two weeks to stew on this and it's already falling apart.
Liam: This is the exact icy, steely demeanor that I depend on.
Laura: Oh my god, are they in there?
Matt: While he looks for those--
Taliesin: I have extras, if you need some.
Matt: I do want to also say the newest Dear Abby article series for Critical Role characters went up-- or goes up tomorrow, right?
Marisha: Tomorrow, Fridays.
Matt: Friday. And whose is that one?
Marisha: Who goes up next?
Laura: What? Who goes up what next?
Matt: The next Dear Abby?
Laura: Oh, I think it's me!
Matt: Oh! Then we'll have Vex tomorrow coming up. See her answering questions to various distraught people throughout the realms of Exandria, and her I'm sure very astute--
Laura: I'm a really good giver of advice. I learned that about myself.
Ashley: It's true.
Liam: More about quantity than quality? Maybe?
Matt: Possibly. This is very true. So look for that tomorrow on geekandsundry.com, that'll be fun and exciting. Also, for those who didn't catch it yesterday, we had an awesome event at Meltdown Comics with the official Dungeons & Dragons crew announcing: one, their new storyline, which is the Storm King's Thunder, I think is what it's called. Really awesome, bringing the giants back into the world with a very fleshed-out story. I'm super excited about it, and keep tabs on that whenever that comes out, should be in the next few months, I think. I've seen some stuff behind-the-scenes and it looks really, really cool. But as part of that event yesterday, we also kicked off and announced a new video series campaign that I'm doing with the actual Wizards of the Coast Dungeons & Dragons team. Me and Chris Perkins wrote and designed together a story that I fleshed out and am running for a series of celebrity guests, one of which is our fantastic Ashley Johnson there.
Ashley: Hey!
Laura: You're a celebrity!
Marisha: You're a celebrity!
Matt: That was pretty great, guys. I'm not going to lie, that was pretty legit.
Liam: Just keep vamping. Keep vamping until the bard gets here.
Matt: That's right, we're waiting on Scanlan to get here. Other guests include Utkarsh, Shelby, Jonah-- I wrote all the first names down because the last names, some of them were hard to pronounce, but you can look up the actual announcements to get the full names. I'm really bad at this. It's been two weeks, give me a break.
Liam: You're busy. You're busy.
Matt: Nah! I've got so much free time. But it's going to be a great group, and I look forward to announcing it soon on when those will begin to air throughout the summer, because it's going to be a lot of fun. And I get to play in Forgotten Realms, which is something I've wanted to do again for a long time, and hope I don't mess up all the existing fantastic lore that Ed Greenwood has developed since he-- oh, are you okay, Laura?
Laura: No, I really feel like I'm going to throw up.
Travis: There's literally up-chuck going to happen. Just do it in a little thing and I'll feed it back to you like a little bird
Liam: Just go in there.
Laura: (retching noise) I threw up so many dice!
Travis: I'll talk about our sponsor this week.
Matt: You want to jump into that? Yeah, so we have a new sponsor coming in, sponsoring this episode of Critical Role this evening. (cheering)
Matt: So Travis, you want to take it away?
Travis: Our amazing sponsor this week is Backblaze. Backblaze is an amazing, unlimited cloud backup company for your Mac and PC, for just five dollars a month, it's incredible. We have an amazing representative from Backblaze in the studio. He's a crazy, crazy uber-fan. Yev, wave to me baby, blow me a kiss. He's incredible.
Laura: You should check out his Twitter page because he has printed out Flat Mercer and he's chronicling his adventures, and I'm pretty proud of it.
Travis: Yes! We're on you, we're talking about Backblaze right now.
Sam: Hey guys. Backblaze is a great service. (laughter)
Sam: It offers unlimited cloud backup for Macs and PCs for just five dollars a month. They're supporting the show tonight. I was saying this in the car on the way over. (laughter)
Matt: Well, please continue, we're not stopping you.
Sam: Guys, no shit, I just installed it yesterday on my home computer. It's currently backing up right now. It's an online file backup system for all your stuff. Your documents, your media, your Critical Role fanart, your videos of Scanlan singing things. There's no gimmicks or additional charges, it's just five dollars a month, and! You don't want to go to Backblaze.com, you want to go to backblaze.com/criticalrole, where you can get a fully-featured 15-day trial.
Travis: How many days, Sam?
Sam: 15 days, free! If you like it, keep getting it, pay five bucks a month, that's nothing. Or if you don't, whatever, it doesn't bother me. But it's only for Critters, and also if you go to backblaze.com/criticalrole right now, you'll see pictures of us, quotes from us. It's actually really cute.
Taliesin: Yeah, it was pretty cute.
Sam: And I am such a supporter of these guys that I even wrote a song for them.
Marisha: What?
Sam: It's very short. Okay.
Matt: Please, go ahead.
Sam: (singing) I'm backing up in Backblaze of glory! Take me now, download the truth. I'm backing up-- okay, that's it. (cheering)
Sam: I need a drink now.
Matt: You did good Sam, you did good.
Laura: There's some Guinness in the fridge.
Matt: It's been cool having sponsors come to the show, partially because they all come to us from being fans of the actual show, and that's the driving force behind this, so we want to make sure that things are on-brand from people who are genuinely interested in our community and have things to offer that'll be useful. I can say this as I have a web series I directed many years ago and spent a whole year doing, I lost all the files because of the hard drive that I had-- the external hard drive failed, and I don't have any of those anymore. And so since then I've been very, very careful about backing everything up. So this service would have been really helpful back then. So don't make the same mistakes I did. There Will Be Brawl only lives as final video files. It kills me. I couldn't even fix stuff. Still have the watermark on the last three videos for the Escapist that I can't remove. Anyway. Learn from my mistakes. So! Do we have anything else any of you folks want to announce?
Laura: E3's next week!
Matt: E3 is next week.
Laura: Oh wait, no it's not. It's two weeks from now.
Matt: No, it's two weeks from now.
Laura: It's two weeks from now. I'm sorry.
Matt: I believe nothing coming out of that mouth now!
Taliesin: E3 is two weeks from now, and I'm also going to be at Amazing Comic Con Vegas two weeks from now. And Signal Boost is currently in its second week, which is hilarious, and amazing, and you should totally check it out because it's weird.
Marisha: Yeah. You're like the most interesting man in the world.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Marisha: It's fantastic.
Laura: I've always thought that about you, Taliesin.
Taliesin: Oh. Thanks. I'm now... yeah. I'm going to die today, thank you. (laughter)
Laura: No you're not!
Travis: Pike's got us covered. Right, Pike?
Matt: All right, great. So, without further ado, and no further delaying the inevitable--
Travis: You got a little something on your--
Matt: Little thing on my nose, right there?
Travis: You might need to go the bathroom, check it out.
Matt: No, it's great. So let's go ahead and roll the intro and start playing Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: So. Continuing where we left off two weeks ago. The intrepid party of adventurers known as Vox Machina, after recently freeing the town of Westruun from being occupied and ruled by the roving Herd of the Storm, which Grog once hailed from, cut down their brutal leader Kevdak and temporarily restored power to a combination of himself and Kevdak's son, Zanror. An accord was made between the two of you to agree to go after and destroy the ancient black dragon Umbrasyl, a member of the Chroma Conclave, and marked for you to eventually destroy anyway, but who had currently made a deal with the Herd in exchange for goods, gold, and ruling over the town, would let them live and be essentially undisturbed, seemingly. You gathered an army, you forged a plan, and an ambush was set for the next time the dragon swooped down from atop the mountain Gatshadow to retrieve its package. At this time, the trap was sprung, the dragon held fast by hooks and chains, a giant metallic trap designed and orchestrated by Percival, and everything was going great. The dragon had sustained quite a bit of damage and seemed to be in a rough place until it broke free and left much of the Herd fallen, dissolving and screaming. Also, Scanlan and Vax Dimension Door'd into the inside of the dragon and have spent a number of rounds now deciding how to get out of it maybe?
Sam: Tiny Vax. Tiny Vax.
Matt: Tiny Vax. Thanks to a potion that does that. You managed to go ahead and put in an Immovable Rod within its stomach, which held it up for a moment before it decided to truly gain the advantage it needed to escape the circumstance, allowed it to tear through its body, as well as an arrow that was shot by Vex towards her brother, in hopes of-- I don't know, being a signal of hope or to put him out of his misery? I'm still trying to figure it out. At this point in time, Umbrasyl took to the sky and began to coast off towards Gatshadow, seemingly the domain that it's carved for itself in this region. On its way out, Grog had thrown his newly acquired Bloodaxe and his Chain of Returning into the dragon, left it, and is now being dragged behind it now, dangling as it flies off. And that, my friends, is where we kick back into the story.
Travis: That's when they knew they fucked up. (laughter)
Matt: So we have, as you guys-- Grog, your feet leave the ground as you swing forward, unable by the momentum pushing forward to keep up with the sheer speed of this dragon and its size, its mass, its full stretched wings, it is far faster than any of you expected and it whooshes off towards the mountaintop. You, just looking behind as the ground just fades further and further away. The rest of you, Vox Machina, seeing this happen, see essentially half of your friends, your party, only one of them visible, now beyond your reach. With that being said, for this circumstance, let's pick up where we were on the initiative order between you three.
Laura: Just straight into it!
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: I'm ready.
Matt: We left at the right time for that, guys.
Liam: I cannot feel the lower half of my body. (laughter)
Matt: Here, how about this? Because I can't find the original initiative order, we'll just say for this circumstance we'll roll initiative based on what action's going to happen here. So we're going to have you three roll initiative.
Travis: Come on, lucky dice. I get advantage on that.
Sam: I got 12.
Liam: 13.
Travis: 13 also.
Laura: Oh jeez.
Sam: Starting off right.
Matt: All right. So. As it crests into the sky (whoosh), blackish dragon blood dripping from wounds, you can feel every single tension of its upper torso muscles with each swoop of the wings crushing against you in this rhythmic pattern. What little bit of air currently has been placed at the top of the stomach, based on your Thunderwave, is all you have to maintain any semblance of hope. You, there's an arrow in darkness. However, Umbrasyl at this point, who does go first in this order, is just concentrating on survival and continues gliding upward. You hear a rumble within the inside of the body, and the essence of a growling, angry voice creeps through. "These foul creatures. Get out of me!" (straining sound) I need you guys to both roll strength saving throws right now.
Laura: He's trying to puke you up?
Sam: Or just crush us.
Liam: Strength saving? Nine.
Sam: Yeah, not great. 15.
Matt: 15. You manage to put your arms against the side, and using whatever forceful arcane cantrips to keep the walls at bay before it actually finds you, and you slip out in time. You, however, do suffer six points of bludgeoning damage as the muscles once again tense against you. Umbrasyl is very much aware that there are now living things inside the stomach squirming around and as the muscles relax, the voice just growls again, "Try all you want. Don't worry. I can eat you now or later."
Liam: Can't hear you.
Matt: So. We had two 13s and a--
Sam: 12.
Matt: 12. All right. So Grog, Vax, what are you guys doing?
Liam: I'm taking--
Matt: The Bramblewood is now beneath you, you're heading towards the mountain, you can see the edge of the forest now.
Travis: Maybe I go first, just in case something--
Liam: Yeah, go for it.
Travis: The Bramblewood? I'm holding on, right? With the Titanstone Knuckles. Whereabouts is the axe lodged? Can I see where the chain is attached to?
Matt: You can see it curving up ahead of you and with how high the sun is in the sky, it's around noon, there's a heavy bit of shadow, and at this distance? Make a perception check.
Travis: (laughs) That went one and then a 13. Minus-- zero. 13.
Matt: 13. It seems to be somewhere around the base of the tail, like where the tail meets the rest of the actual body itself, the torso area.
Laura: It's in his butt.
Matt: No, it's not quite in his butt, it's more in his side.
Travis: How high am I?
Matt: Looking down? Numbers are hard for you to pick up. It's a long way.
Travis: A long way.
Matt: It's a long way. Like-- yeah.
Travis: Well. Only one way to go. And that's up. I would like to try and pull myself up the chain towards Umbrasyl.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Travis: Athletics or strength?
Matt: Athletics. Which is better, technically.
Laura: It's a strength saving thing, so--
Matt: Yeah, it's strength plus your proficiency bonus.
Travis: Oh! I get an advantage or?
Matt: You get your proficiency bonus. You're no longer raging, because this is more fear-struck at this point.
Travis: Oh, 14 plus five-- 19.
Matt: 19, yeah. You begin to ascend the chain. You get closer to it, and you can now see the axe itself is embedded and is starting to wiggle and pull out. So you're making your way up the chain with the full round at this point, you're almost to it, but that's going to be the rest of your action this turn.
Travis: Yeah, okay!
Matt: So what are you doing?
Liam: I'm taking the dragon sword and I am shoving it along the angle of the arrow that's coming in toward it, to try to go parallel.
Matt: Okay. The arrowhead is still poking through--
Liam: Through, and I'm sending it along that line.
Matt: Okay, okay. All right. Go ahead and make a general dexterity check. To see if you're able to--
Liam: Natural 20. (cheering)
Matt: Okay. Using the essence of where the actual shaft of the arrow has pierced the hide and is stuck through, you take the blade and use your understanding of precision weapons and implements to find the slight opening. And the blade thankfully is very thin. Slide it through with minimal resistance. You can see the muscles are still pushing against it, but the already preset wound from the arrow does guide it through, and you manage to go straight to the hilt, and it's found its way all the way through the wound. No additional damage is dealt necessarily, but it has gone--
Liam: This does not count as an attack on the creature?
Matt: You said you wanted to put it through an existing hole.
Liam: The hole is this thick.
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: Like a straw, and the blade is this, that's not piercing damage? There's no piercing damage. Whatever you want.
Matt: Do you want to roll an attack for this?
Liam: Yes, I want it to be an attack.
Matt: Right, now you would make the attack as the blade. The idea being that you wanted to guide it through the hole.
Liam: I'm going to use one of my Lucks. I've got two left. Better.
Matt: Didn't you use any Luck for the battle?
Liam: I used one last time.
Matt: Right, so you have two left.
Liam: 12 plus strength, which is low, is 14. The dragon sword-- is the dragon sword plus anything, guys? I don't know that I have the--
Matt: Plus one.
Liam: Plus one. All right.
Matt: Yeah, and then it does additional damage against dragons.
Liam: Oh, and I have to roll-- I'll just say I missed. For my bonus action, I'm going to slide the dagger up along the same line and try to widen that gap.
Matt: Okay. This roll will be at disadvantage.
Liam: The last one was too, which is why I just scrubbed it.
Matt: Right, right, right. Go ahead and make the secondary attack.
Liam: No.
Matt: Yeah. Okay, so, the blade is in there and it has found its way through the existing wound, but you don't quite have the strength to actually wrench it enough to do any real, serious damage as it is a very, very hardy and well-defended creature from its natural mass. The fleshy interior of a dragon is almost as dense and as protected as the armored hide on the outside, and that's one thing you weren't counting on when entering its form.
Liam: And what did I just do, though, with the dragon sword, did I widen the hole?
Matt: You've put the blade through the hole and so now you have that blade lodged in, you can then use that to try and widen it in successive turns in itself and that will prevent you from having disadvantage on the attacks with that blade going forward, because it's already in a soft place and you can just wedge it, but it's going to be a strength attack for each of those rounds. The dagger unfortunately, you just can't find any purchase at that point there in the time given, because of the movement and the squishing. You do also suffer an additional seven points of crushing damage.
Liam: Okay, and I forgot. One other thing I want to do-- I have movement too, can I use my legs to push as hard as I can forward a foot or something? I know with movement over difficult terrain it's halved, and I'm in the most difficult terrain.
Matt: You are in the most difficult terrain there probably is.
Liam: But if I use my movement could I shove and go like a foot towards the outside, half a foot or anything?
Matt: Pushing towards the wound?
Liam: Pushing in. Using my legs to go--
Matt: Okay. I would say that would be part of your attack next round. Actual movement within, you would be able to move a few feet but you'd have to release the blade to do so. Any actual blade pushing forward would be your next action, so hold off for the next round. Scanlan, what you got?
Sam: Oi. So I'm in a beast. As we all know, intestines are my favoured terrain-- (laughter)
Travis: I remember him saying that years ago!
Matt: This is true!
Laura: Back when we first made these characters, I remember you saying that.
Sam: So I held up that rod, clicked it, and then it was pulled out of the body pretty close to where I am right now. When it went, did I see air? Did I see daylight, when it went out of there?
Matt: It was very small. It's the equivalent of a bullet going through, because the rod when it punched through it didn't-- it's a very thin, elongated object, so it pierced through like a metal rod at a very high speed.
Liam: So the dragon got very lucky and it went through like that, and not like that.
Matt: If it would have hit-- at whatever angle it would be, even then, it's only that wide and it would still puncture a tiny slit, and due to the density of both the muscles of the creature and its body, it took damage and there's a little bit of blood coming from the wound, you imagine, but it's not like it's going to leave an open, cavernous hole.
Sam: It's a cut.
Matt: Yeah, it's a cut.
Sam: Got it.
Matt: But you did see where it (tearing noise) through.
Sam: And when it went out, I didn't see any daylight or anything. Just disappeared.
Matt: You just saw it (tearing noise) through the creature's stomach. You do see a little bit of blood beginning to pour out of where the wound was.
Sam: Okay. Oh boy.
Travis: Do it, baby.
Sam: I don't know, I got nothing. All right, I'll just try something and we'll see if it works and then I'll try something else next time. I won't die in one round, right? I'm going to Polymorph into a Tri-- not-a-ceratops. Into a small, poisonous snake.
Matt: Okay!
Sam: And I'm going to go straight into that wound.
Matt: Okay, well, before that happens you do take four points of acid damage from the stomach before you take the form, because that would be the top of the round. So, at which point you turn into a small poisonous snake, now floating amongst the acids, and find your way along the surface. And you're heading towards the wound?
Sam: I'm going into the wound.
Matt: Okay, all right--
Sam: With a swim speed of 30!
Matt: Right, you do. (laughter)
Matt: Let me check.
Sam: But I don't know if it's swimming, it's more squeezing.
Matt: Through the acid, it's swimming. Once you get to the actual wound, this is more squeezing. And that's going to be more of a strength-based element. So that being the case here, a poisonous snake, I'm going to need you to go ahead and roll a strength check to push against the wound.
Sam: Sure, man. This is a strong snake.
Laura: Really?
Sam: Natural one. (laughter)
Matt: Which, just as a heads up, is a minus four to its strength, so that's technically a negative three.
Sam: (bink) Going well, guys!
Matt: Yeah. You just dive in headfirst and with all your snaky might, you slither and slither and slither, just getting nowhere. No headway. This is bad. (laughter)
Liam: Why don't you bite it, dude?
Sam: Oh yeah! Sure, I'll take a bite.
Liam: Poisonous bite.
Matt: Sure, go for it. Roll for an attack.
Sam: 14 plus-- I have no idea.
Matt: Plus five.
Sam: Hey! That's a 19. That doesn't hit.
Matt: A 19? The inside of the stomach is not as well-armored as outer parts of the body. A 19 would hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Sam: What do I roll?
Matt: This would be-- oh no, you don't roll. It takes one piercing damage. (laughter)
Sam: Guys, we knocked it down a point!
Matt: And it has to make a constitution saving throw versus your poison. That's an eight plus 14, at a DC of ten. So yeah, it doesn't take any additional-- oh, it takes half damage. So go ahead and roll 2d4.
Sam: Ooh! Seven.
Matt: It takes three points of poison damage. (laughter)
Sam: And it is considered grappled. Okay. Plan A, cross it off the list. (laughter)
Matt: All right. Top of the round. Okay, so, Umbrasyl is still flying up, looking down at its form, is glancing about...
Travis: Don't see me! Don't see me!
Laura: You're in its butt. How can it see you?
Matt: Grog. As you're holding onto the axe, you see before you, just pass underneath the leg and the front arms that are reaching down, this giant, dark, looming projection comes down and looks right towards you. The horned front of the dragon as Umbrasyl stares right into your face and goes, "There you are." (draws in breath, exhales) And unleashes a torrent of acid towards you. I need you to go ahead and make-- this is going to roll a dexterity saving throw. You have disadvantage.
Travis: I do?
Matt: Because you're currently holding onto the chain, but I believe you have advantage on them because you are a barbarian.
Travis: I have Danger Sense. So just one roll?
Matt: Yeah. So just roll.
Travis: That's not great. 11.
Ashley: Can I-- do I see them?
Matt: No! They are way over-- they're like a tiny little dragon speck in the distance. We'll get to you guys here in just a moment, but their situation is a little more dire and immediate, so I have to figure out what's going on with them right now.
Laura: What if we could've chased after them? Right away?
Matt: You can if you want to. Did you want to go after them?
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Laura: I would have chased after them, immediately, when it took off.
Matt: Okay, we'll get to that in just a minute. As it is-- the dragon's speed is it can fly 80 feet per round.
Laura: That's really fast, though.
Matt: Yeah, and it's making double-dash manoeuvring here, even at your fly speed on the broom--
Laura: What do great eagles have? Giant eagles, I think, have really fast speed too.
Matt: Let's check that real fast. Giant eagles--
Marisha: 80.
Matt: 80 feet. So the eagles are able to keep up. Do you want something that way?
Laura: So, if the eagles were to pick up somebody--
Matt: First off, Grog, you take 62 points of acid damage.
Travis: Nice.
Laura: Wait, you have acid resis-- no, you don't, because Keyleth-- it went away.
Travis: It went away?
Laura: Yeah, remember? Because she used--
Matt: She took damage and it dropped.
Marisha: I took damage, I'm sorry. It wasn't my fault. I lost concentration. Blame the dragon that did 40 damage.
Matt: So, as the stream pours past you, you feel your flesh burning, and elements of your skin are actually sloughing off and plummeting beneath you like a thick oatmeal.
Laura: Gross!
Matt: You still maintain your grip on the axe through sheer force of anger and willpower. Umbrasyl slows down a little bit in not doing the double-dash maneuver. That's going to end Umbrasyl's turn. So you sent the eagles after--
Laura: Well no, I wanted the eagles to pick up Pike and Percy.
Matt: So the eagles swing by--
Marisha: Wait, not yet. Stone! Stone!
Taliesin: Throw her the teleport stone!
Ashley: Gatestone! I pull it out of my bag. Pass it to her.
Taliesin: I'm going to hop on an eagle.
Laura: I literally am sending the eagles as this is happening and I dash out of the tree on my broom, and go for the Immovable Rod, just long enough to stop and grab it and keep taking off after the dragon.
Matt: Okay, so you retrieve the rod, grab it, and head off in that direction. So we now have both of you, on eagle-back, heading off, with you trailing behind as you can't quite travel at the same speed as the eagles.
Taliesin: I'm going to try and clear my gun while I'm up there, too.
Matt: Okay. Keyleth, what are you doing?
Marisha: You've got a ride. Animal handling. I'm going to drop and I'll start focusing on the Gatestone.
Taliesin: So, situated, I'm just going to try and clear the gun and see if it's an easy fix.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: Nope. Gun's broken.
Laura: It's broken?
Taliesin: Yeah, gun's broken. I've got another gun, but big gun's broken.
Matt: Yeah, Bad News is out. All right. As you're flying off you're having a hard time with the bumpy ride, as this eagle also has been near death due to being partially dissolved by the acidic attack from the dragon before. It wasn't the acid, it was something else that wrecked it.
Laura: No, it was a bite or a claw.
Matt: Yeah, I think it was a bite or a claw, because the acid would've destroyed it. So the eagle's heavily wounded, and due to it shuddering and trying to keep up it just causes you to end up bending a portion of the actual weapon.
Taliesin: Damn it. I put it away.
Matt: All right. So you guys are keeping up. You're concentrating on the stone.
Marisha: One minute, baby.
Matt: Bringing us back now. Grog, you're recovering from this attack.
Travis: I look down and I see my beautiful body tattoos melting away like instant oatmeal. Not even like the nice apples and cinnamon kind, it's like the maple brown sugar that no one--
Laura: That's my favorite kind of oatmeal.
Travis: Nobody likes that; you're alone in this. And it makes me so angry that I go into a rage?
Matt: Do recall, you do have one point of exhaustion since your frenzied rage did wear off beforehand.
Travis: Right, yeah.
Matt: So you go into a rage.
Laura: Oh but we have Heroes' Feast, is that good?
Matt: It doesn't help with that, no.
Travis: All right. So I go in a rage, and I would like to try and continue climbing up the remainder of the distance to Umbrasyl.
Matt: Okay. Athletics check, with advantage.
Travis: That was a one.
Laura: Oh, that's way better!
Travis: That's much better. That's a 29.
Matt: You find your way up, grabbing onto the edge of the tail, and you actually pull yourself up onto the base of the tail. You're on the back of Umbrasyl right now. The chain is still currently attached to its side.
Marisha: Khaleesi!
Travis: Mother of dragons! Do I have any more movement?
Matt: It's taken your whole turn to really get up there. Are you going to dislodge the Bloodaxe, or leave it there?
Travis: I'm going to dislodge it, because it was already so weak.
Matt: Okay, so go ahead and make your check to remove it. It's a DC 12, I think.
Travis: That's a one. Yep.
Matt: You pull on the chain, but the reason it managed to hold your weight this whole ride up was it was wedged pretty well into its armored hide. And thank god it did. However, at this point, it's proving that that is now coming back to haunt you, as it is really hard to pull it from where it's stuck in the dragon. That's going to be the end of your turn. Vax.
Liam: First turn I'm going to use the dragon blade to attack and slice downward and try to wedge that hole open a little bigger.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: That hits. Well, I don't know if it hits. Nine plus my strength for this sword, right, not dexterity?
Matt: Correct. I'm letting this one be a finesse.
Liam: I probably hit him before. So that's a 25.
Matt: 25? You carve an opening in the side about a foot and a half in full length there. As you drag it you hear a roaring. Go ahead and roll damage on that.
Taliesin: It's 1d8 plus your dex--
Liam: Yeah, I know, I got that written down, thank you. 16.
Matt: 16? All righty.
Liam: And then, this is a game rules thing. Grog's within five feet of this thing and I'm no longer at disadvantage. Or am I?
Matt: This is less rules and more narrative. You don't understand the body or where you really are in the body of the dragon. He's not threatening the creature right now. If anything, it's potentially threatening you. This would not be a sneak attack.
Liam: I'm not arguing, I'm asking what's possible.
Matt: No worries.
Liam: I'll use the dagger to hit. Am I at disadvantage with the dagger still?
Matt: I'd say yes, because the only reason you didn't have disadvantage with the other blade is because it was within an existing wound and then you pulled back.
Liam: Then I miss.
Matt: Okay, the other dagger, you go ahead and stab again, this time it hits a dense part of muscle and does sink in, but not enough to do any serious damage from the inside.
Liam: And there's air queefing in and out of this slot? (laughter)
Matt: A little bit, yes. It's about that wide. You staying there?
Liam: Yes. No. I'm going to slide my body and try to stick head and dagger arm out of it and hang half in and half out, if possible.
Matt: Yeah. Go ahead and make a straight strength check.
Liam: 13.
Matt: 13? That's fine. Thankfully, the DC's lower because you managed to carve the large wound in. You plant your feet against the other muscle wall that you are between and you push off and get yourself through. And in the most awkward, tiny birth, just above your armpits, your head and arm emerge out the side. Immediately a gust of wind hits your hand as you realize and look down: you are hundreds of feet above the ground. Bramblewood right beneath you. But you are partially out of the dragon.
Laura: You can breathe!
Liam: (gasps for air)
Matt: Take a deep breath. You take three points of crushing damage as the muscle walls around you are still squeezing in on you in your current placement. That ends your turn. You! At the top of your round, your snake takes acid damage. Only one point of acid damage. How many hit points does your poisonous snake have?
Sam: I don't think he has very many.
Matt: It may have less than one hit point, in which case, you're just going to turn right back into Scanlan.
Sam: I think he's dead.
Matt: Let's find out. It has two hit points!
Sam: Oh god! Oh no, but wait, I took damage last round, too.
Matt: That was before you transformed. It was at the top of your round.
Sam: Hey, I'm still a snake! (laughter)
Sam: Well, I'm not going to try that any more. If I drop form, is that my whole round?
Matt: No, you just let it go.
Sam: I'm going to drop the snake. Snake was a try and fail.
Matt: It was a good idea. Just not a very strong snake.
Sam: I drop the snake, try to get that little bubble of air (gasps), and I'll fucking cast Bigby's Hand.
Matt: Okay! So, using that little pocket of air, you bring your hand up, you do your quick somatic components, shouting the phrase, and Bigby's Hand appears and is currently being squished between some of the walls of the stomach.
Sam: Can he move at all?
Matt: Yeah!
Sam: Okay. I would like to fist the wound. Jam it, find a finger and-- how you like that?
Taliesin: You're fingering the wound. Okay! (laughter)
Sam: This wound will never heal.
Matt: I don't-- yeah. (laughter)
Sam: So would it be a forceful hand?
Matt: This would be a very forceful hand. This would be the definition of Bigby's Forceful Hand. Go ahead and roll an athletics check for Bigby, which is strength 28, so add plus eight to the roll.
Sam: 12?!
Matt: Total of 12?
Sam: Yes!
Matt: The finger pushes partway in and gets about halfway up to its second knuckle. (laughter)
Matt: It is just chilling right there.
Sam: This is so embarrassing! Wow! (laughter)
Matt: I'm blushing, man!
Liam: All about phrasing.
Sam: Wow! Okay!
Matt: All right, that's your turn.
Sam: I have movement, right?
Matt: You do have movement, yes.
Sam: I can't move anywhere! I have climbing stuff with me. Can I move my arms at all?
Matt: You can move your arms, yeah.
Sam: I would like to take out a grappling hook and grab onto the inside lining of the stomach.
Matt: Okay, make a strength check.
Sam: Nope! Six!
Matt: Six. You take it and (ting, swish). It just slips along the very heavy mucous material lined interior of the stomach. There's a little scrape line, but that's about it.
Sam: I can't do anything! It's great.
Matt: Top of Umbrasyl's round. Breath weapon does not return. However, is going to use one of its legendary actions and attempt to beat its wings to shake you off of it, Grog.
Laura: Are you raging?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: I need you to go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Travis: Which I have advantage on. 18.
Matt: 18. You take 15 points of bludgeoning damage, which is reduced by half, so you're only taking seven. However, you are knocked prone.
Travis: (laughing) On his back.
Matt: Yes, which causes you to begin tumbling off the back of the tail. The wind of it-- (thump thump)
Travis: Shit!
Matt: The chain of returning is still attached to you, however, and as you go tumbling off the back of the tail, it catches you, and you are now swinging towards the back of the creature, of the dragon now, back where you started. Only the dragon is very aware of your presence. But you didn't plummet to your death!
Travis: That's good!
Matt: That was the end of your turn. Now it's the top of Umbrasyl's turn.
Sam: These dragons are hard to kill!
Matt: Yeah, imagine that! At this point, now, as this has gone on for a little while as you guys began to ascend and it went upward, it's now partway up the mountainside. You can see the forest has gotten more sparse. There are trees scattered across the top of the mountaintop.
Liam: We're close to Gatshadow already?
Matt: You can see it. You're not there, but it's going across the forest top and it's coming towards the actual mountain base. It hasn't quite ascended it completely.
Laura: What about giant eagles with people on them?
Matt: They're keeping in tandem with it. They're not able to quite catch up entirely, just due to the nature of the fast dragon.
Liam: Arrow range?
Matt: Not for her, unfortunately, no.
Taliesin: We're not within 400 feet of it, are we?
Matt: You, at this point, jumping on, would just be on the outside of the range if you wanted to try. You're at disadvantage on these attacks because you are on the back of a flying, wounded bird.
Laura: Don't let the bird get hit by Umbrasyl!
Taliesin: Fuck it. Taking a shot. At least taking one shot to see what happens. Ooh yeah. Natural 20.
Matt: With disadvantage.
Travis: Do it again.
Taliesin: 18, that'll do. 27 to hit.
Matt: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: Oh, and he still has-- no, I lost Hex.
Matt: You lost Hex, yeah.
Liam: You're doing great, de Rolo, come on! Keep your head in the game.
Taliesin: 14 points of damage.
Matt: Gun goes off. You hear a whizz go by your ear as the bullet hits the side of Umbrasyl. (grunting) The head looks back towards the rest of you, now approaching at a distance.
Laura: Do not let the bird get hit! You will plummet to your fucking death.
Taliesin: I'm going to spend the rest of my attack pushing the eagle down to fly at tree level.
Matt: So, at the top of Umbrasyl's turn, as you guys are pushing forward and you're still concentrating, the dragon growls under its breath. (spellcasting) You can't hear it. You're too far away.
Ashley: She can read lips!
Laura: I'm so far away! I just want to know what he's saying.
Matt: The outer view of the dragon shimmers for a second and then vanishes from sight.
Liam: Are we visible?
Matt: No.
Liam: We're not like Wonder Woman inside the jet? What about my hand hanging out?
Matt: Yeah. You see the dragon.
Sam: What about Grog?
Matt: Grog is dangling from nothing right now. Grog is kiting through the air.
Taliesin: You have Hunter's Mark.
Ashley: So we can see Grog?
Matt: In theory, yeah, if you can keep a bead on him.
Travis: I'm enlarged.
Matt: A very heavy Grog.
Laura: Is he Hunter's Marked still--
Matt: He would be. You haven't taken a lot of damage yet, or at all.
Laura: I haven't taken any damage.
Matt: Then you still have Hunter's Mark on him, yeah. Continues upward. That comes to the next part. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I had one question. I drank that Potion of Speed. It hastes me for a minute. How many rounds is a minute?
Matt: That has gone away, unfortunately.
Travis: Well, there's nothing to do but to climb back up the chain!
Matt: Make an athletics check.
Travis: Up the chain! Fucking weiner snap. 15.
Matt: 15? All righty. You manage to pull yourself halfway up the chain. You get back to where you were towards the base of the tail. That's the extent of your round there. The wind resistance itself, you can see the axe itself, after you tried to tug it forward, did bring it a little loose. So its position is still a little precarious.
Travis: Might as well say something cool. I can do this all day! I'm really not confident.
Matt: All right. Vax.
Liam: I would like to use my movement, if I can, with the blade I used to go this way, and I cut a big foot-long thing. I want to try to use my movement to reverse the direction of the blade and stab inward.
Matt: It would be part of the attack to draw it out and attack. It wouldn't use your movement. It would be part of the attack to draw it out and attack with it. It wouldn't use your movement.
Liam: My dagger hand's the one that's out. I want to try to maneuver the sword around and stab inward and keep cutting bacon in here. I want to attack the dragon, but still from the inside with the hand that's inside.
Matt: Okay. You're in a weird position now where the blade's at your side, so pulling away from the body, there's very little strength to pull that way, since you punched through the wound. So you're essentially holding the blade right here.
Liam: Then if I did this, can I just continue to saw in the same direction and do an attack?
Matt: You'd be at a disadvantage on it.
Liam: Visual. I don't know what I'm seeing.
Matt: T You stabbed through, you cut a wound. Holding that blade, you punched through, and the thickness is about most of your body's length. So most of your body is still in the wound. You've just barely pushed through, and you're still holding the blade back this way. There's no real strength to attack from this position because you're being squished.
Liam: Then I'm going to attack at disadvantage with the dragon blade, and then I'm going to stab with the dagger that's outside.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: Dragon blade on the inside rolled a 15.
Matt: 15?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: There's just not enough strength to get it though. You try and pull upward and the blade comes loose, comes towards your body, but doesn't actually find any additional part of the muscle to cut through.
Liam: Dagger on the outside is 21.
Matt: 21? Just scrapes across the hide. Not strong enough to pierce it from the outside. You do also take one point of bludgeoning damage as the wound tenses around you once more. Scanlan!
Sam: For my bonus action, I'm going to fist the dragon again! Just going to jam it in there!
Matt: Roll an athletics check with plus eight.
Sam: 20!
Matt: 20! The hand pushes into the wound, causing it to tear open and rupture part of the stomach. As it punches through, temporarily leaving an open wound in the side of its stomach area, Bigby's Hand is partially outside the dragon now.
Sam: Great!
Matt: It takes 11 points of damage from the wound. And you currently have a little bit of light that's visible before the wound closes.
Sam: Before the wound closes.
Matt: The muscles re-tense. You watch it punch through and everything (gasp). It's the moment of impact.
Sam: I'm going to jump in the hole.
Matt: You leap in after Bigby's Hand just in the wake of it slamming into the side of the muscle of the stomach walls. In that one moment, you're rushing past, you can feel the actual muscles tensing behind you. Go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Sam: Dexterity saving throw. 18!
Matt: 18! Okay! You manage to leap behind Bigby's Hand and grab onto the side of it as the hand punches entirely out of the dragon's body, the wound slamming shut behind.
Sam: Oh god, I'm outside the dragon?!
Matt: You are now outside the dragon.
Sam: (screams) Shit!
Matt: Holding onto Bigby's Hand.
Sam: Is he flying? Does he stay still? What does he do?
Matt: He is flying.
Sam: He can fly?!
Matt: Bigby's Hand!
Sam: Not as fast as the dragon.
Matt: Bigby's Hand can move up to 60 feet, so no, it's slower than the dragon. Starting to drag a little bit behind as it's moving.
Sam: God. Okay! Hand can't do anything else, right?
Matt: No, that was its action. That's most of your turn, really, at this point. That was your movement to push through after the bonus attack, so you have your action. I'll give you your action.
Sam: You're not going to let me cast another spell, probably.
Matt: You have an action, so you could, technically. You look out as you punch through. You look down below you suddenly after you take a moment to look, and you can see part of Vax emerging from the side of the dragon. And then the whole dragon and Vax vanish.
Sam: Oh shit! Wait, I see Grog?
Matt: You do see Grog, dangling from the chain, slowly pulling his way up towards the back.
Travis: (screaming) Scanlan!
Sam: I'm holding onto the hand?
Travis: (screaming) What the fuck?!
Matt: You are now right there with Bigby's Hand. (laughter)
Sam: The Hand can't do anything else.
Matt: Not this turn, no.
Sam: Shit. I just got out of the dragon. I don't know what's going on. I didn't even know we were flying. I'm just going to shoot a Lightning Bolt at him.
Matt: Okay!
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: All right. Advantage on the dexterity saving throw. What's the DC of it? The DC of the Lightning Bolt?
Sam: It's my spell. It's not through the Hand Cone, I assume.
Matt: Nope, you are clutching both hands onto the side.
Sam: 18.
Matt: 18. It makes the save. Roll damage, and it takes half damage.
Sam: 26.
Matt: 26. All right, so it takes 13 points of lightning damage. (blast) The bolt streaks upward, hitting the sides of the wound that you just came out of it, and arcs up the side of the body. Most of it is absorbed from the hefty, scaled hide of the black dragon, but it does (unhappy groan) roil with pain. You hear it yelling, and with a very slight shifting of light, you notice the dragon is still there, and you recognize this. This is an Invisibility spell. That ends your turn.
Sam: I guess so.
Matt: So, the rest of you guys, trying to keep up. The dragon's far out of range of anything you have, and it's just seems to be coasting as fast as it can out of the way, so you have nothing, I don't think, that can really go past a 300, 400 foot range. So you're just keeping on that eagle, holding on. You as well, you're behind the others, just slowly falling behind.
Laura: How fast can my broom go?
Matt: I think it's 50 feet. I can look it up again real fast. It's not a racing broom. Quidditch broom. I'll find it for you.
Laura: And my boots of haste don't do shit to a broom.
Matt: I'm going to look it up right now, just to let you know, so we can all relax.
Travis: It's the fastest model yet! I love Harry Potter.
Matt: I gather that. (laughter)
Matt: I love it, too. Broom of Flying. Flying speed is 50 feet. You can't even see it now. Grog's just become this little speck in the distance. All right, so as that's going on, are you doing anything?
Taliesin: I'm going to keep my eyes peeled on what I can see and try to keep up as best I can at treeline, like below.
Matt: Back to the top of the round. The dragon, Umbrasyl, now (wings flapping). Even you are being dragged behind nothing, you can hear the wings beating. You still have full sight of the dragon at this point. The voice growls out of its throat, "Fine. Let's see how well you hold on, insects!" It begins to spin and do a barrel roll. I need both of you, as also its muscles tense, to roll strength saving throws.
Travis: I have advantage on those.
Liam: Six.
Matt: Six?
Travis: 26.
Matt: 26. You get swung around, the chain taking the brunt of all the weight across its back. (popping) Comes free. Thankfully, you were in an up arc, but you are now arcing in the air. You also get ejected from the wound from the muscles tensing behind, it almost squeezes you out. Before you can even get a grapple on, the dragon vanishes from sight and you're now falling backwards.
Liam: I'd like take a chance to say, here, that when I went into this dragon, I was lost, and a wanderer. As I am shat out its side, I come forth a paladin of the Raven Queen. I have multiclassed and leveled up. And the last thing I'm thinking as I shoot out this hole in its side is: if you have any wings to lend me, now is the time.
Matt: Okay. As you emerge from the body of Umbrasyl, there is a streak of shadow that scatters into a burst of darkened raven feathers that fill the air around you. You still plummet, but as a nature of your prayer, that brief moment of understanding, it appears there is some reaction. That'll be that element there.
Marisha: Where am I in my minute?
Matt: Oh, you're like 20 seconds in. 30 seconds in.
Ashley: Are they all falling?
Matt: You guys now watch as, suddenly, Grog and Vax just (rush of air). Vax appears out of nowhere and is falling. Scanlan's being held aloft by a distant Bigby's Hand, and Grog is arcing in the air. At that point now, Grog, Vax, what are you doing as you're falling backward?
Travis: I take out a case of fancy wine and-- (laughter)
Travis: I pull out a fancy robe, of which there are two, and pull it out. I'm going to drop the Bloodaxe. I'm going to grab both ends of the fancy robe and just make the shittiest parachute of all time.
Matt: (air puffs)
Travis: There ain't much else to do.
Marisha: Shitty G.I. Joes.
Matt: Yeah, it's like 25 cent quality, above you, Grog, as you squeeze your eyes and hold on. Plummeting down towards the Bramblewood. Vax.
Liam: Hey, I'm a brand new paladin. Lay on Hands, which is going to do fuck all for me, but is that a bonus action?
Matt: I believe it's an action.
Liam: An action? Okay. I'm going to cast Lay on Hands on myself. And I'm going throw my poison dagger at the dragon as I fall. That's a 23.
Matt: 23 does hit.
Liam: That is ten points of damage with poison on it. It's a DC of 15 for poison. I'm sure it makes it.
Matt: Yeah, it makes it. It would've had to roll a one to not make it, unfortunately.
Travis: Could I add one bonus thing at the end of mine?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: Can I see Scanlan and Bigby's Hand at all? Or is the world just a clusterfuck?
Matt: Make a perception check, just glancing around you.
Travis: Four.
Matt: Four. No. You see earth beneath you, sky above, mountain to your left, and the inevitable plummet coming at you.
Liam: I'm thinking about my mother as I fall backward through space.
Sam: Distance between me and them?
Matt: Vax is about 20 feet from you, Grog's about 60, 70 feet from you.
Sam: What's the range of-- shit.
Taliesin: 50 feet.
Travis: Remember, we're going to be going the same direction.
Marisha: They're both falling, yeah. Vax will hit the ground first.
Sam: Vax will?
Travis: I'm higher.
Matt: The dragon's moved ahead to this point now since you guys have fallen off.
Sam: Is anyone higher than me?
Matt: Grog is. Vax is a little bit below you.
Sam: And he's not flying or anything, is he?
Matt: He's trying. He's holding a scrap piece of fabric that's just (rustling fabric).
Travis: I've seen Percy make shit, I can do it, too! (blows puffs of air)
Taliesin: You're doing very well. You're doing very well.
Sam: Wow. This didn't go well.
Marisha: I'm hoping you can hold on for a minute.
Sam: Okay. Yeah! I'm going to drop Bigby's-- 60 feet is not plummeting speed? I can't catch up to them as they fall?
Matt: Right now, you could catch up to one of them.
Sam: All right. Because Grog is over me, right?
Matt: Yeah, Grog is in an arc, so you would have to meet him as he fell.
Sam: I'll try to catch him then.
Matt: Okay, so you clutch onto Bigby's Hand and move as he plummets.
Sam: Shit, wait. Wait.
Matt: What are you doing? What are you doing, Scanlan?
Sam: Shit. Vax is below me, though.
Liam: He said you can get to one of them, so it's just a Sophie's Choice.
Sam: It's a Sophie's Choice.
Marisha: But who's on the lowest hit points?
Sam: Yeah, I would go for Grog if he's above me, with the hand.
Matt: Okay. The hand comes forward, sends out this cupping motion, the fingers below. You, eyes closed, clenching tight, (impact). All of a sudden, the wind stops, and it's like you're being held by your mother again, a memory you haven't recalled since you were a child. You open your eyes slowly, and you're still above the ground! Holy shit! But there's a giant purple hand around you and a very freaked out Scanlan clutching the outside.
Travis: Look what you did!
Sam: Hi, friend. Shit. We've got to go to Vax. I'll start moving us slowly down, I guess.
Matt: That was the turn to even get to him and catch him.
Sam: Then-- fuck.
Matt: You still have an action if you have anything.
Sam: I can't see the dragon anymore, right?
Matt: No. You have a vague idea of where it might be.
Marisha: Do you still have Polymorph?
Sam: Yeah, concentration.
Marisha: Fuck.
Sam: Yep. I mean, I can make Grog deaf so he won't hear us die. (laughter)
Matt: That's useful.
Taliesin: That seems like a really good use.
Sam: I got Grog. Fuck. Okay. I'm going to drop Bigby's Hand and Polymorph Grog into an eagle.
Matt: Okay. So, as you look over at Scanlan, with a big look of relief and thank you, he gives you a cursory look as the hand vanishes.
Travis: What. What?! (screams)
Sam: Holding on to him!
Matt: He grabs you real fast, and suddenly you have feathers! What the shit! And, strangely, you become smarter! As giant eagles have an intelligence of eight.
Liam: Quick, come up with a plan!
Travis: It's a new day, baby.
Sam: His brain is just geometry.
Matt: It's a Beautiful Mind moment in the middle of the sky. Suddenly you understand, the instinct hits you, and (whoosh). You have wings. You feel Scanlan's tiny hands grasping the back of your neck.
Sam: And I just yell at him, dive, motherfucker, dive!
Travis: (caw)
Matt: All right. You guys start seeing this happen in the distance and a little sparkle of hope hits you, whatever it may be. Coming back around to the top, Umbrasyl is taking a double dash motion. He's past.
Liam: He got away.
Matt: Grog, it's your turn.
Travis: Can I see that flurry of black feathers streaking downwards of this guy?
Matt: You do, and it is a perpetual flurry. They're coming out of nowhere. It is this long, visual line of black feathers that are being tossed from beneath Vax's flapping cape.
Travis: We're going full Point Break terminal velocity, straight down towards Vax.
Sam: I hope I can hold on! There's nothing to grab onto, is there?
Matt: There's just heavy feathers and digging in.
Sam: Luckily, I have a grappling hook. (dink dink dink)
Travis: Maybe in my dive position I could squeeze your legs with my wings, how about that?
Laura: You're really smart. You would think to do that.
Travis: I would.
Ashley: Yeah, you would.
Travis: I would also think, what idiot was just flying behind the back of this dragon on a chain? What a fool.
Matt: So as you go into a full dive, that's 80 speed, that's 160 feet. (whoosh) You manage to just crest underneath the plummeting Vax, the trail of black feathers, trailed by a long line of brown feathers being plucked out from Scanlan, feverishly trying to grab onto your back for some sort of purchase. Pain. You deal with pain all the time. It doesn't dissolve your focus. Vax, I need you to go ahead and attempt to grab onto the eagle as it swoops beneath you. Go ahead and make a single strength saving throw.
Liam: No, wait, Luck! I have one last Luck.
Matt: This is the time to use it.
Laura: Oh my god!
Liam: 21.
Matt: As the eagle swoops underneath you, you reach out. You don't even see it, you're looking up into the sky as you plummet, the trail of feathers going past as you concentrate on the acceptance you've made to the Raven Queen, and the understanding that perhaps, if there is a chance to survive, let it be through this leap of faith you've taken in the direction of an entity that you've been so fearful of and scoffed at since she came to you in your dreams. A moment, you see the feathers begin to trail off and subside from beneath your cloak, and a voice whispers in your ear and says, "Left." Without thinking, your hand reaches out, without even seeing, and you (impact) grab the edge of Scanlan's cloak.
Sam: Oh no!
Matt: As you're dragged behind, you (choking) from behind.
Sam: It's worth it, it's worth it!
Matt: You can barely breathe as the eagle swoops up, you can feel the heartbeat, the blood flowing in the back of your head, your ears hot (heartbeat) as you slowly reach over and grab the back of the eagle. Is this Keyleth? You don't know. All you know is Scanlan swooped in and in this moment of need, seemingly, a prayer was answered. So what are you guys doing?
Laura: And you're itty bitty still!
Liam: I prefer raven-sized.
Matt: Yeah, he's tiny. That's the only reason I'm not having him tear you off the back of the eagle, because of the size.
Travis: Unless I hear otherwise, I'm making a controlled descent towards the ground.
Matt: Okay. You guys see this in the distance as now the eagle captures the falling Vax and then begins to head down towards the base of the mountain where the Bramblewood meets.
Laura: I guess we head down that direction.
Ashley: Yeah. Make the eagle follow.
Matt: Okay. You guys make your way downward towards the bottom. Keyleth, you finish your concentration on the stone. (whoosh) Suddenly, you step through, being pushed through a tunnel of blue light and energy, and for a moment, all you see before you is Vax's face, his tiny little raven-sized face.
Marisha: So cute!
Matt: (whoosh) As you guys watch Keyleth apparate right in front of Vax, and go speeding past you, as she's now plummeting from the air, having summoned to your side.
Marisha: I'm technically an earth elemental still.
Matt: You're still earth elemental? So yeah, you see Keyleth as a giant boulder that appears at the side. You have to dodge out of the way (whoosh) as this giant rock being, out of the corner of your eye, appears before you. However, she sinks straight past you. You're flying as low as you can, you're going terminal velocity, and there is this (rumble) rock entity plummeting at the same rate.
Taliesin: A meteor.
Marisha: You know, it was a good idea when he was still in the dragon.
Matt: Yeah, I know. It was.
Liam: (singing) I came in like a wrecking ball!
Matt: At about 200 feet up, you continue to plummet.
Marisha: 200 feet? That's all right.
Matt: All right. You're not doing anything else? You're going to take the fall?
Marisha: Well, what's below me?
Matt: The very edge of the Bramblewood and the base of the mountain. You're not quite sure where you'll land. You see treetops and rocks.
Taliesin: What's the worst that's going to happen?
Marisha: I would hit zero hit points as an earth elemental and go back to Keyleth.
Matt: And then the rest of the damage would carry over.
Marisha: Right, but 200 feet. That's survivable.
Matt: That's 20d6.
Sam: You'll be fine. What's that? 60 points.
Marisha: Yeah. It's roughly 60 points, and I've got 67 left as this earth elemental.
Matt: All right, so you're going to take it?
Marisha: Hang on, wait. Wait, wait. If I'm going to do this, I'm going to do it right. I'm going to ball up like a cannonball and light up my hands, that I keep forgetting because I didn't know I could do them in elemental form, by the way. Thought it was only beast form. I'm going to light myself on fire and go meteor.
Matt: All right. You guys watch as the earth elemental curls up, forms this streak of flame and smoke behind, and now a plummeting Keyleth meteor goes slamming into the base of the mountain just past you as you pull up from impacting at terminal velocity.
Marisha: I was trying to leave an impression. No pun intended.
Matt: You suffer 76 points of bludgeoning damage upon impact.
Sam: Of Jor-El damage. (laughter)
Matt: (boom) This giant crater is left around your form as now there is this somewhat smoke-swirled Keyleth sprawled out in the center of this.
Marisha: I drop, and I stand up, Keyleth, in the middle of a giant crater.
Matt: The rest of you all eventually catch up. The eagle-back carriers, you on broomback, finding your party bruised, hurt, but ultimately survived this moment of the encounter. As you've all had this moment to yourself, Vex, you hear a noise to your left coming from the exterior of the Bramblewood.
Laura: Can I see what it is?
Matt: You glance off to the side, and you can see, emerging, slowly from the forest, a single humanoid standing before you.
Sam: Is he single?
Matt: No. You see, slowly coming forward, a woman. An older woman, an older goliath woman, missing one eye and missing her forearm-- her left arm, right at the elbow. The right arm clutches a very tall quarterstaff that is being used as a walking stick as she wanders up. You can see dirt smeared in her face, darker dreadlocks pulled tight against the back of the head that dangle past the shoulders, tattoos similar to the ones that adorn Grog across the face and shoulders. She slowly walks towards the party. Let's go ahead and bring our guest for the evening out. You can go around the other way. Let's welcome Chris Perkins!
Liam: Welcome, Chris, welcome!
Taliesin: Is he coming to this side?
Matt: Right to the edge, next to you, Keyleth.
Sam: Do you know how to play this game?
Chris perkins: Keyleth meteor, what?
Marisha: Yeah, that's me.
Matt: As she steps up and emerges from the forest, everyone turns and sees the worry on Vex's face.
Laura: (laughs) Vax pours a drink.
Liam: It was very frightening.
Laura: Halt! Who are you?
Chris perkins: My name is Shale.
Laura: What's your business here?
Chris perkins: I was following a scouting party out to the mountain. But these old bones don't take me as far as fast as they used to.
Travis: Do I recognize Shale?
Matt: You do, actually. Not very well. Shale has been around longer than you have as part of the herd, but is mostly considered past her prime as a warrior. Since she lost her arm, was set to the side, and a lot of the herd seems to not value their elders when they become less powerful in battle, but even still, she carries a bit of spit and vinegar to her. But it's been a while since you've seen her, and to see her surviving out here, both curious and honorable.
Travis: Shale.
Sam: Sorry. You're still an eagle.
Matt: (caw)
Travis: (caw)
Sam: Grog, do you want to say something?
Chris perkins: I will brandish my quarterstaff, my rune-covered quarterstaff, and try to hold this big creature at bay.
Matt: Shale's holding her staff out.
Chris perkins: Stand down, bird!
Liam: I love you! Let me love you!
Sam: All right, all right. I'll drop the form. I'll drop the form.
Travis: Thank you, god. Shale.
Chris perkins: Grog? Is that you?
Travis: Yeah, it's me. I know, you can't tell.
Chris perkins: You're kind of a blur. What's on your face?
Travis: It's a beard.
Chris perkins: You've gotten big.
Travis: Yeah. Lots of lifting. Lots of running, getting strong.
Chris perkins: Last time I saw you, you were the runt of the goatball team.
Travis: Oh.
Laura: You were a runt, Grog?
Travis: No, when I was born, she means. When I was born.
Laura: Was he rather small?
Chris perkins: He was puny.
Travis: Puny compared to mountains and stuff.
Ashley: What's goatball?
Chris perkins: It's a game you play. You stand on pillars of rock, and you hurl balls at each other.
Laura: Made of goats?
Chris perkins: Made of goatskins. Skins, my dear.
Marisha: Sounds kind of fun.
Chris perkins: The object of the game is to knock the other opponents off their pillars.
Liam: That's more civilized than what we were imagining.
Travis: It's a lot of fun, actually.
Laura: Shale, what were you doing out here with a scouting party? It seems--
Chris perkins: We were spying on the dragon. Damnable beast.
Laura: Did you succeed?
Chris perkins: No. The scouting team did not fare well.
Marisha: Are any of them still alive?
Chris perkins: No. They're all dead.
Sam: How did you survive?
Chris perkins: I was slow and stupid. I shouldn't have gone at all. I couldn't keep up with them. By the time I got to them, they were corpses.
Sam: You sound like an excellent addition to our team, then.
Chris perkins: She says, I would have killed the dragon as soon as it came upon us, when we first arrived in Westruun, but that damn Kevdak formed an alliance with the beast.
Laura: Wait, you think you can kill a dragon?
Ashley: Wait, what did you just say? Oh.
Sam: We knew that.
Ashley: Yes. Realized it as I was saying it.
Chris perkins: That is how I wanted to die. Fighting the dragon.
Marisha: It's funny, we almost just died fighting the dragon. How ironic.
Travis: We put a good hurting on it, yeah. Do you-- I mean, not like I'm questioning what can you do, because I don't think it's very much.
Marisha: I'm actually great. I'm just in a smoldering meteor and look like a badass.
Matt: Which caught your attention, the large, crashing boom.
Chris perkins: That was it.
Liam: I yank on Vex's hand from down below and say, pick me up! Put me on your shoulder!
Laura: What's the matter? Can you not see anything down there? I pop Trinket out and put Vax on top of him. Don't you feel so tall now?
Liam: I am tall.
Marisha: How much longer is he going to be tiny?
Matt: How long does the potion last?
Liam: I rolled a three, so that's three hours.
Matt: Yeah, three hours.
Travis: Sweet.
Liam: We have to decide what to do. He's gone back to his hole. He's going to rest. He's going to heal.
Marisha: I just have such a hard time taking you seriously right now. I'm so sorry.
Travis: So you had to have been a part of this party for a reason. What's in your bag of tricks? What can you do?
Chris perkins: I smash things with my stick.
Travis: With your stick. Does magic come out of your stick?
Chris perkins: It is a magical staff.
Travis: Oh, well, that's good.
Sam: Yeah, we could use more of those.
Travis: Is it a magical staff of dragon killing?
Chris perkins: It will be if we get on with it.
Travis: I like that.
Liam: I like her, too.
Marisha: So, Shale, did you and your scouting party find out any additional information that might be handy?
Laura: Maybe how to get into the lair without it knowing?
Marisha: What she said.
Chris perkins: I know nothing of use.
Laura: That's wonderful.
Liam: You never made it up to the cave entrance, did you?
Chris perkins: I made it up to the dead ones. That's as far as I got.
Laura: How far were the dead ones?
Chris perkins: A ways.
Marisha: All right.
Sam: I hate to tell you this, but Kevdak is gone.
Chris perkins: No great loss.
Sam: Your whole herd may have perished fighting this same dragon.
Liam: Not all of them.
Marisha: A lot of them.
Travis: But it will all be worth it if we can remove the head of this shitty black dragon.
Chris perkins: I agree.
Laura: Plus, Zanror is still alive, as is his wife. I think.
Sam: Maybe.
Marisha: We hope.
Taliesin: Possibly.
Travis: So, how far would you think that we are from his lair?
Chris perkins: I'll just crane my neck up the mountain.
Matt: It's a sizable climb. Gatshadow-- While this portion is the south part of the Cliffkeep Mountains, which get higher the further north you go, this mountain is called Gatshadow because it is dark and ominous and stands out amongst the rest of the mountains. While the other ones crest at about maybe 4,000 feet up, this one's nearly a mile, a little over a mile high.
Laura: Well, we can obviously fly.
Matt: There are sparse trees, most of them dead or dried out towards the top, but other than that the vegetation is pretty sparse.
Travis: Look, I'm a little jacked up. I think those two are a little jacked up.
Marisha: I could use a short rest.
Travis: It's fair to assume that he will do the same thing, yeah?
Sam: Yeah.
Travis: Go brush his teeth, have a deuce, all that stuff.
Marisha: We're trying to catch the dragon while he's still debilitated, right?
Liam: The longer we wait, the harder it will be.
Ashley: What if I just heal everybody and we keep on?
Sam: Yeah, that's great.
Ashley: I don't want to lose the damage that's on him.
Sam: Yeah, heal us and let's keep going. Quickly. How long has it been, a minute? Two minutes?
Matt: Since you guys landed here? It's probably been about two, three minutes.
Sam: We've got to move.
Travis: Can we travel a mile up a mountain quickly?
Sam: We have eagles.
Matt: Even at your fastest pace, eagle speed...
Liam: The broom and the two eagles at this point?
Matt: The broom is slower than the eagles. Eagle speed you're looking at about-- I'm estimating somewhere between ten to 20 minutes.
Liam: That's enough for a short rest for it. He's not going to go back to full strength, but he's going to go back up a bit.
Laura: Would we know that?
Marisha: We don't know what he has access to.
Matt: You would know, being as dragons are your favored enemy, and you have information on that. Generally, they don't-- They themselves can recover over time, and if given a full day or so, they can largely recover from the wounds they have sustained almost entirely, especially a dragon as powerful as an ancient. You would know that, because they understand and fear their demise, or at least are arrogant enough to think it's not possible, they will have certain reserves to try and help them recover if they ever find themselves in a dire circumstance. Occasionally, depending on the intelligence of the dragon and what resources it has at its disposal.
Marisha: Reserves. What do you mean?
Laura: Healing stuff?
Matt: Some semblance of healing magic, items they may have acquired that can help. The longer you wait, the more it can recover, is essentially what it comes down to.
Liam: We need to go now. We need to go.
Sam: Should we mist form it there? Can we do that?
Laura: That takes too long to think about.
Marisha: I can get us there via trees.
Sam: But you'd need to know a tree that's there.
Marisha: I need to know a tree that's there. I could Scry, look for the closest tree, teleport us there, but by the time I'm getting there, I'm exhausted.
Liam: Are you able to see a tree from a great distance?
Marisha: If I Scry.
Liam: Not even by eyesight?
Marisha: I mean, I guess I can look around and take a guess.
Ashley: I'm going to cast Mass Cure Wounds on everybody.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and do that. And Shale, you feel nice and warm at full health as the Mass Cure Wounds tickles you.
Laura: Is your arm back?
Matt: Unfortunately, no. If only!
Sam: The temporary hit points never go back up, right?
Matt: Correct, no. They were just for that little bit of damage.
Chris perkins: Lost it in an avalanche, I did.
Sam: Today?
Chris perkins: No, turd.
Matt: The Scrying will take you about ten minutes or so.
Laura: Are we going to Scry it or are we just going to go? How long would it take if we just flew up? 20 minutes?
Matt: That's if you were all on eagle-back. Which you don't. You have eight people, and you currently have two summoned eagles.
Liam: Speed of the slowest.
Matt: Yeah, the speed of the slowest here, you're looking at walking up the mountain.
Marisha: Yeah. So I can teleport us closer and then walk, or we can take a very short rest so I can get my beast shaping back, and then could fly a few more of us. It's a gamble.
Chris perkins: You take your rest, love. I'll start up the mountain.
Matt: Shale walks away and starts hiking up the rocks at the very base of Gatshadow.
Travis: Can I just say that we agree that the reason we didn't do what Zanror wanted and go to the lair is because it's a fucking death trap?
Sam: Yes, but the dragon is injured now.
Travis: But he's going to heal up by the time we get there.
Sam: Not all the way.
Travis: Pretty good.
Liam: It's still the best chance we have. We have to kill it now.
Travis: In its lair?
Chris perkins: It's your destiny to fight the dragon, Grog.
Marisha: Wait, what? What was that, Shale? Is that true?
Chris perkins: No, it's not true. (laughter)
Ashley: Everybody is healed 27.
Chris perkins: It's just a thing old women say.
Marisha: Just let him believe it.
Liam: Kiki, may I have my-- Sorry. (higher voice) May I have my cloak back?
Marisha: Oh, yeah, sure.
Liam: Thank you. (flump, whoosh)
Matt: To attune to it will take you a short rest.
Marisha: So are we resting?
Matt: That's up to you guys.
Liam: I don't know. But I'm still putting it on.
Travis: When I turned into the eagle, what happened to the Bloodaxe and chain?
Matt: Actually, you check, and the equipment that you have attuned to you and attached go into the form with you, so at this moment you realize, "Oh, the axe!" You look behind you, and it's just been dragging behind you in the dirt, carving this path in the rocks and rubble.
Travis: Yeah. That's nifty.
Matt: Like a kid with a deflated balloon you're just dragging behind you.
Laura: Can I-- well, I can't sense anything about it with Hunter's Mark, I just know where he is.
Matt: You know where it is.
Laura: And he's up in his lair.
Matt: He is up at the top of Gatshadow, somewhere in that mountain.
Laura: Moving around, or is he chilling?
Matt: At the moment, seems chilling.
Sam: Let's go.
Matt: Short rest or not, what are you guys doing?
Marisha: How long would the hike up the mountain be? An hour?
Matt: It's about a mile up. You're looking at the better part of a day.
Sam: Oh, a mile up.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Unless we fly.
Taliesin: What if we take shifts with the eagles?
Matt: Take shifts with the eagles? Back and forth?
Taliesin: Eagles fly a group up, fly down, pick up another group and bring them?
Matt: Probably about an hour.
Taliesin: But that's an hour with a short rest for everybody as well.
Matt: If you're going to do it that way, yeah.
Liam: Half could rest at the top while the eagles fly back, and the ones at the bottom could rest.
Taliesin: So there's a short rest.
Liam: Shifts of resting, yeah.
Matt: You're still looking at about an hour and a half at that point, with people moving there and back and getting enough rest. You can't short rest on the trip, and the short rest is about an hour, half an hour.
Liam: Eagles drop off, they rest while the eagles return, and the people at the bottom rest while the eagles are making the trip, no?
Matt: Right, but you still have to have the eagles that went to the bottom to pick up the second team to get there, so you're still looking at about an hour and a half to two hours.
Laura: I could also use another spell and summon a couple more eagles.
Sam: Sure.
Laura: I could summon two more eagles.
Liam: That's worth it.
Laura: And that could get how many of us up?
Liam: All of us up at the same time.
Sam: But one is just for Grog, right?
Laura: But two more eagles would get all of us up?
Matt: It's a concentration spell. You can only have one of it up at a time.
Laura: It is?
Matt: Yeah. And it only lasts for an hour, and you've already been at this for probably about ten, 15 minutes.
Laura: So they're about to go away.
Matt: You have about another 40 minutes of the eagles.
Marisha: So we couldn't do round trips anyway. They'd dissipate.
Matt: You'd just have to recast it.
Marisha: Well, yeah.
Sam: That seems like our fastest option. What's the other option? A short rest and then we bamf.
Marisha: We rest and then go. If we rest for 30 minutes, and then I switch and then we have the eagles, then we can get up in another 30 minutes, and then it's an hour. Theoretically, short resting is our shortest.
Matt: You said you have Transport Via Plants, right?
Marisha: I do.
Matt: If you wanted to Scry up that mountain and look at one of the trees at the top, you could do that. That would be, technically, the fastest way.
Marisha: But then we'd still have to hike. How long would the hike be?
Matt: It depends on how close the nearest tree to the cavern would be.
Sam: Let's do that.
Marisha: I'm tapping myself-- I can do it, but I'm tapping myself out. I'm burning literally all my top level spells and I have no beast shapes left. But I can do it. It's what we think is most important.
Laura: What if we use the eagles, send them up. Once they're used up, they're gone at the top, and then I'll just summon two more and send everybody else up? Once the people make it up the top, that way it takes less time. A couple people hop on the eagles right now, because we only have a little bit of time left.
Marisha: Can I rest? Can I rest while the first round goes?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: We're fighting a dragon in its lair! In the worst place we could possibly fight it!
Sam: We've also dealt so much damage to it.
Matt: Umbrasyl was looking pretty rough.
Sam: I fisted through it!
Taliesin: He said looking pretty rough.
Travis: That's because he's a liar and a bringer of death, and he is smiling at you while he does it.
Taliesin: I know.
Sam: What are we going to do today with Chris Perkins? Talk, or go fucking kill a dragon?
Taliesin: Would you like a tour of Whitestone? It's really lovely this time of year.
Chris perkins: I'm judging you!
Liam: Grog, she's right. It is your destiny.
Travis: In your tiny voice.
Liam: What are you laughing at?
Laura: Everybody hop on an eagle.
Ashley: I hop on an eagle.
Taliesin: Hopping on an eagle.
Sam: Well, no, half of the people hop on an eagle.
Laura: Two of the halflings-- two of the gnomes can get on.
Ashley: Scanlan.
Sam: I'm in back?
Ashley: Yes.
Liam: I'm sort of a halfling. Can I get on too?
Matt: At your size? The three of you would probably be able to take one eagle, because you are tiny.
Sam: Oh, that's right, he's a little one.
Laura: All right. You guys go.
Liam: See you in a bit, sis! Bye, Keek!
Matt: So we'll say, for the purposes of this, it'll take an additional cast of your spell, so mark off a second casting of Conjure Woodland Beings. However, that brings-- What level is that?
Laura: That is level-- Oh, good. Level three.
Matt: Conjure Woodland Beings?
Laura: So I've got two level threes left. With my Pearl of power.
Matt: Conjure Woodland Beings is a 4th-level spell, Laura.
Laura: I have Conjure Animals, not Woodland Beings.
Matt: Animals, there we go. Sorry, so yeah, that is 3rd-level. So yeah, mark off your second casting there. You guys manage to make a short rest between the journeys, making your way up towards the dark, blackened rock peak of Gatshadow. We're going to take a short break here for restroom. We'll be back here in a few minutes. In the meantime we have an awesome video from Backblaze to show you guys--
Ashley: Yay!
Taliesin: It's really cute.
Marisha: It's for you guys!
Matt: We'll be back here in a few minutes guys, stay tuned for apparently the attack on Umbrasyl's lair. See you in a minute. [break]
Matt: Welcome back, everyone. We've had a little break here. A quick announcement for you guys, the rebroadcast tonight will be delayed for about 30 minutes as we have to shoot something directly after this so we can all go home. So, if you guys are in chat after and folks are showing up going, "Where's the rebroadcast?" Just let them know it'll be around, about a 20-30 minute break between. We appreciate you guys carrying that thread over to them when they arrive. So we've had a break. If you wanted to use any of your hit dice to heal up during the short rest, now's the time to do it. You've re-attuned to the Dragon Slayer Longsword. And just so you guys know, both Grog and Vax leveled up to 14 as well. Vax took a level of paladin during the short rest. Grog also took his 14th level as a barbarian. As a berserker, a lot of you know what that means.
Sam: I don't know what that means.
Liam: We'll find out. I'd like to re-attune to the Cloak of Displacement. And the Boots of Haste, are they spent for the day for anybody? If I were to wear them, could I get the juice or no? They're done?
Laura: They're too big for you, teeny.
Liam: They would shrink to me. I'm going to re-attune my Keen Dagger, then, for the moment. So it's Deathwalkers Ward, Keen Dagger, Cloak. Three items.
Matt: Okay. I'll let it happen. Usually, you attune one item in a short rest.
Liam: Oh, okay. No, I can do one.
Matt: I think it's fine for this. You get attuned as you walk up the rest of the way. It's fine.
Travis: I've rolled all nine of my hit dice.
Matt: So you're out of hit dice?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: All right. Everyone else good? Ready to jump back in?
Taliesin: Nope.
Matt: (laughs)
Sam: Does anyone need more healing? Are we okay?
Marisha: Yeah, we're good.
Laura: And because I Conjured Woodland Animals, I lost my Hunter's Mark.
Matt: Yes, you did, but you know loosely where it was.
Sam: All right, let's hurry.
Matt: As you guys slowly make your way up towards the peak of Gatshadow, you all come to rest maybe, from what best you can tell, is the entrance cavern that Umbrasyl currently calls its home. Across this blackened, dark craggy surface, you see clumps of dead, petrified trees. Leafless, gnarled, and devoid of any life. There are signs of melted stone, soot. Long ago, there may have been a fire that claimed the top of this mountain and set its visual presentation that got its name. However, this is your moment, should you wish to make your way towards your conflict with Umbrasyl. How do you wish to prepare?
Laura: I want to sleep for a day.
Marisha: Yeah. I want to rock back and forth in a corner.
Liam: I'd like to go stealth and I'd like to see-- is there one clear, main entrance to this place?
Matt: There is a cavern opening.
Liam: Yes.
Matt: There are a few small little inlets into the mountain at certain points, but the path that you guys land on that ends? You're going to have to climb around the mountain to get to the entrance of this. There is no walk-up path. Actually, just an opening on the side of the mountain.
Liam: So we're further down still. We're not near the entrance?
Matt: You're about 400 to 500 feet away from the entrance.
Laura: I'm going to cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.
Matt: You stealth ahead and look a little bit and you notice the path comes to an end. You probably have about a hundred feet that you have to scale the side of mountain to get to the entrance.
Liam: From where I am, I can tell that we need to climb around it. If I look very hard, do I see any little holes or cracks or anything above?
Matt: You see one other small entrance about maybe 60 feet below it, a little bit to the left.
Liam: All right.
Sam: Pretty cool sound effects
Chris perkins: It's freaking me out.
Laura: Is that your music?
Matt: That is not my music. That's the atmosphere.
Taliesin: Shale, Shale. The scouting party. Where did you find the bodies? Where were they left?
Matt: Which actually you-- this was probably a couple hundred feet back. They made it near the peak. However, they were spotted upon the approach, and you heard the battle. The very short battle that ensued. Heard the screams of them, far from your eyesight.
Chris perkins: I will have pointed them out, then.
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: So that's why I cast Pass Without a Trace on us.
Liam: How far above our position is that smaller entrance-- (noise of hissing gas)
Matt: It's all atmosphere, guys. I paid them to do it. I know. All right. Towards where the actual walkable portion of this mountain cliff ends, you have about 40 feet of scaleable wall, at an upward angle, before you can reach that small little inlet that you saw there. An additional 60 feet beyond that is the larger entrance where you saw, the best you can tell, Umbrasyl retreat towards-- or exit before, when you were watching him emerge from the mountain. That's it.
Liam: What do you think? Do you think I should climb in that little hole?
Laura: Do you want-- say that again?
Liam: There's a main entrance above. But there's also a smaller, little gap lower down. He cannot fit in there.
Marisha: I can try and scry inside the cavern.
Laura: See if it's something that would be worth--
Marisha: Get a battle perspective?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: All right. You have to give me a few minutes. Is everyone all right with that?
Laura: Can I use my ranger skills to try to camouflage us into the side of the mountain? To make us even more non-seeable?
Matt: Yeah. Totally. So we'll say for the purposes of that, anyone at this point who'd like to make a stealth check, to go ahead and keep yourselves hidden from any onlooking parties.
Marisha: Natural 20.
Laura: Add ten.
Liam: Natural 20!
Marisha: Hey!
Matt: Add ten for Pass Without a Trace.
Sam: 17.
Taliesin: 24.
Chris perkins: 22.
Travis: 16.
Ashley: 29.
All: Whoa!
Ashley: What?! (laughter)
Liam: Why, I do declare.
Ashley: Well, I do declare I'm invisible.
Matt: The armored cleric cannot be seen. (laughter)
Laura: 32.
Matt: With Vex's help, you guys manage to take bits of the mud, soot, and the burnt remnants of the once lush forest that dotted this mountainside, and darken your exteriors to help obscure the vision of anything that wished to pry, along with the magic drawing the shadows to your forms. You're pretty confident that most of you would be fairly difficult to be spotted by most creatures.
Liam: I would just like to point out that my complete total is 45.
Ashley: Of stealthing?
Laura: Thank you. Thank you for pointing that out.
Liam: Yes. It's mostly for your benefit.
Laura: I appreciate it.
Matt: That's ridiculous.
Ashley: How?
Laura: How?
Liam: Natural 20, plus my 15 benefit, plus Pass Without a Trace. Poof! (vanishing sound)
Matt: You've stealthed through time. People who had seen you previously in your past, have no recollection of ever actually seeing you. (laughter)
Liam: Marty McFly's holding a photograph.
Matt: Exactly. All right. So, what's up now?
Marisha: I take a little of the soot, and I give myself some druid battle make-up.
Matt: There you go, just smear it.
Laura: Yeah. Did you scry yet?
Marisha: I'm about to.
Laura: Okay. I do the same thing. I soot my face up, too. Let's all make battle paint while she's scrying.
Taliesin: Absolutely not. (laughter)
Marisha: Pretentious asshole.
Ashley: I want to do a hand. (laughter)
Laura: I get soot on my finger and walk up to Percy and just put a line from his forehead down his face.
Taliesin: I feel violated, but thank you.
Chris perkins: I'll ask Grog if he wants any soot on his face. I'll walk over.
Travis: I'll put soot on your face if you come near me with that wicked, wicked staff of yours.
Chris perkins: This is not wicked. It's just a staff. It doesn't even have a name.
Travis: What?! How could you have a staff and not give it a name?
Chris perkins: Only men name their things. (laughter)
Marisha: Yeah. My staff doesn't have a name. It's so true.
Chris perkins: You know, if you kill this dragon, you'll be the greatest goliath that's ever lived.
Travis: No.
Chris perkins: Yes!
Travis: Really?
Chris perkins: No one else has killed a dragon of this size. Not among us. Not among the Herd.
Ashley: Grog.
Travis: Pike killed a dragon.
Chris perkins: Did you, now?
Ashley: Well, we all did. But it wasn't this big.
Laura: It was pretty small.
Ashley: It was pretty-- it was a lot bigger than me.
Chris perkins: I'm sure that experience will come in handy.
Sam: All right, let's do this.
Marisha: All right. I scry. I focus really hard on the dragon.
Matt: Okay. On Umbrasyl?
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: Do you need any of his stomach bile to help you scry?
Marisha: Sure! Can I have some of the-- I scrape a little stomach bile--
Sam: Does that help? Does that help?
Matt: Well, here. Let me pull up the actual specifics for Scrying here.
Chris perkins: This is going to go well, I can feel it.
Marisha: Wait. He's going to sense what I can scry, can't he? Maybe I can just try and scry inside the lair?
Matt: It largely depends.
Sam: What do you want to do?
Marisha: I mean, he knows we're coming, yeah?
Laura: Can you scry that little cavern to see where it leads to? Can you scry your mind up the cavern?
Marisha: Yeah. Actually, can I do that? Like it's a camera drone?
Matt: It's more like picking a location, as opposed to an actual--
Marisha: Sure. I want to try and focus on Umbrasyl's whereabouts, but I want to see if I can get a nice bird's-eye view of inside the cavern.
Matt: Okay. You are familiar with the target as you've done battles, that does adjust the saving throw for the scry. So, without further ado, what's the DC of your spells currently?
Marisha: 19.
Matt: 19. Hmm. As your eyes close, your vision projects itself beyond your form, beyond the craggy landscape of Gatshadow, out beyond the mountain pass that ends abruptly. Beyond the cavern entrance, you are pulled within the darkness. Suddenly, you find a little bit of light scatters across the damp stonework of the inside of this cavern. You see stalagmites. You see pools of murky, greenish-brackish liquid, ever so gently disturbed by the wind that curls in and out of this cavern. You see towards the back an elevated platform next to another pool, where a large outcropping of stone that has just slowly pulled itself out of the rock, nearly touching the very height of this cavern. You don't see anything in there. All you hear is (low breathing sound).
Sam: He's asleep.
Chris perkins: (loudly) What do you see?
Marisha: Ah! (laughter)
Marisha: Well, nothing now. That's it? That's all I see?
Matt: That's all you see.
Laura: Did you see Umbrasyl?
Marisha: No, but I heard him. He sounds very rough, or possibly sleeping? I don't know, there was a lot of heavy breathing. Very deep-- not, you know, shallow breathing. Not impassioned breathing, Scanlan.
Laura: Could he still be invisible?
Marisha: He could I guess still be invisible. Also the cave was covered in acid pools and dark and dingy and everything else we would expect.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: I know.
Travis: Let's do it.
Sam: Okay. We're going in the small hole or the big hole?
Marisha: I don't think he caught my presence. I don't think he's necessarily expecting us. We can have the element of surprise, here.
Liam: Let me check out that hole on top. You guys can watch me do it.
Laura: Go in the little hole, then.
Liam: I'm little now. It's a big hole. It's quite big, actually.
Laura: It's roomy.
Liam: I'd like to climb up to it.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead--
Liam: Spider-sense tingling the whole time.
Matt: All right. So you manage to find bits of rock and pull yourself across the way. It's not too long a distance but enough to the point where I need you to go ahead and make a basic strength check.
Liam: 14.
Matt: 14. Okay. It's hard and you feel part of your muscles build up lactic acid from the exertion, from the previous round with Umbrasyl and you not being necessarily the strongest individual of the troupe, but you do manage to scurry your way up to the edge of this small opening in the mountainside. Getting inside, you get a look: this hole continues for about 15 feet into the mountain before it ends abruptly. The only other thing you notice is there are currently four long-dead skeleton corpses within this hole. Perhaps some sort of mountain-climbing expedition or travelers that found their way there, and couldn't escape. There are remnants of a small camp. Perhaps a small fire that is long iced-over through winters past. A layer of dust sits on everything and other than the occasional gust of wind that finds its way in here, largely undisturbed for a long period of time.
Liam: I want to look through the remains.
Matt: Okay. You rummage through the remains. You find roughly 85 gold pieces amongst their corpses and spare change in silver and copper--
Liam: I don't take that.
Matt: Copper. The pennies of D&D. Poor things. Copper dragons everywhere are just so disappointed. You do find an oil lantern, climbing gear for four people, some long-spoiled rations. And you find a very moldy diary.
Liam: I take out the Flametongue Dagger and give myself some light.
Matt: As you're scanning through most of the pages that are still intact and not completely molded over or destroyed, it appears to be a journal that contains writings of what was an expedition to reach the peak of Gatshadow, because there was some sort of movement, some sort of activity up there that nobody could really discern. The rumors speak of some sort of creature that would stalk out in the night and steal mountain goats. (belches) Pardon me. Goats! Steal mountain goats, steal or find and kill anybody who lived in-- there used to be a smaller village that lived north on the mountainscape that is now abandoned because of this creature the folklore of the time said supposedly lived at the top of the mountain. It speaks of the entrance, the place that Umbrasyl now calls the lair, and this leads you to believe that this is a fresh lair. Umbrasyl did not appear to always live within Gatshadow, but is only currently making it its lair at the moment.
Liam: Is this a dead end? Does it look like it goes further in?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: By the light of my dagger.
Matt: Actually, this would be investigation.
Liam: Investigation? All right. 20. No, wait-- Yeah, 20.
Matt: 20. Feeling along the walls, you find elements of the rocks that are easier to break off than others, but this is predominantly the end of this cavern.
Liam: It's a cave. Okay. I tell my sister  it's a dead end. It's nothing. Coming.
Matt: So Vax finds his way back to the group.
Sam: It's a dead end? Jesus. This ain't going to be good. Shale, would you like to lead the way?
Chris perkins: Yes. Now, I may not survive this. I'm quite old, and I can only see about 30 feet ahead of me--
Laura: Well then, maybe she doesn't lead the way. (laughter)
Liam: My sister and I should lead the way. You stick to Grog, will you, grandma?
Chris perkins: I whack him. (laughter)
Matt: (whack sound)
Liam: Wait! I don't get to dodge?
Matt: No. Because, unexpected, she is swift, and she is strong for being one-armed and of her age. The sting hits the side of your shoulder before you have a moment to really understand and your diminutive form is thrown about three or four feet back before you catch yourself.
Travis: (laughter)
Liam: I skitter off ahead of the group.
Marisha: I cast Protection from Acid on Grog, again.
Chris perkins: Now, if I don't survive, loves, I do have some magic on me. So this staff has runes. You can scratch them off and magical things will appear! And this horn, if you blow it real loud, it will let out a tremendous thunder that could bring down the entire cave.
Sam: I don't think you should be planning for your own death!
Laura: I'll take the horn.
Chris perkins: It might explode.
Sam: It might explode?!
Chris perkins: It's a little unstable.
Laura: Scanlan, you should take the horn.
Sam: She's not dead yet!
Laura: I'm saying when she dies. If she dies.
Sam: We're not going to divvy up her stuff! That's bad luck!
Liam: She's bequeathing it to you in her will.
Chris perkins: And this pendant here, which looks like a dragon tooth, it's a dragon tooth. And if you wear it, it will close your wounds.
Laura: Could I insight check her? I feel like she's lying through her teeth. (laughter)
Matt: Make an insight check.
Sam: Maybe we should just kill her now and take the stuff.
Laura: Natural 20.
Matt: Really? So, Chris?
Chris perkins: I'm being super sincere.
Laura: Oh. I really want all those things--
Chris perkins: She honestly believes. (laughter)
Marisha: Shale, you seem almost like you're--
Chris perkins: My hide armor ain't worth shit.
Marisha: As I was saying, you seem like you're almost expecting to die, or you're looking forward to it?
Chris perkins: Well, I'm very old. And if I could die fighting a dragon, well, there's no better way to go. If I don't die, great! Wonderful!
Marisha: All right. Just checking that we wouldn't disappoint you if you don't die.
Travis: Wait, just to be clear  if we kill the dragon, are you going to say you killed the dragon or would you say I killed the dragon? Who's going to be the greatest goliath?
Chris perkins: Why, you, of course.
Travis: Yeah?
Chris perkins: I'm past my prime.
Travis: We'll shake on it?
Chris perkins: I will shake on it.
Matt: Which is easy because you put out the proper hand for the one arm she has.
Chris perkins: You want to mess with her, put out your other hand. (laughter)
Marisha: Shale, what type of magic do you wield, exactly?
Chris perkins: I wield this staff.
Marisha: Okay. Very clear.
Taliesin: This is going to be great! I'm on board and committed to this. This is very exciting!
Sam: Thank you, Shale. Let's try to live.
Marisha: So remember, acid pools everywhere. Do we have any type of cohesive plan, or just--
Sam: We're just going to go in.
Taliesin: Just be very quiet.
Liam: I'm already looking for traps, looking for danger.
Matt: So you're coming up to the entrance.
Liam: I'm not going to go in the entrance, but I'm going to try to climb up and peer over the edge and look as carefully as I can.
Matt: Go ahead and make another strength check.
Liam: 17.
Matt: You manage to climb your way up to the larger mouth of the cavern. It's about 40 feet across at the very front of it. And about 50 feet up. It's this large--
Liam: 40 feet, 50 feet?
Matt: Yeah. And the rest of you guys? Are you pursuing?
Sam: I'm going to come.
Matt: Rest of you climbing along the mountain as well?
Sam: Wait, is that the way in?
Travis: Is there anything you can do to make the dragon visible with his invisibility? Set fire, or your faeries?
Marisha: I do have Faerie Fire. You combine the two things that you said and it's fantastic.
Travis: Totally meant to. Okay. I'm just climbing. I'll follow them.
Matt: All right. Everyone who's climbing, I need you to roll a strength check.
Marisha: Wait! Who's climbing where?
Matt: There's no actual walkway to it.
Laura: Does anybody want to ride the broom with me?
Taliesin: I'll ride the broom. I'm not a climber.
Sam: My Gloves of Swimming and Climbing, are those attuned items?
Matt: I don't think they are, no.
Sam: I'll put on my Gloves of Swimming and Climbing, which I got two years ago.
Travis: 26.
Marisha: 19.
Sam: I don't know what they do.
Matt: Advantage on the roll.
Sam: Oh, great! 16.
Matt: 16? Okay.
Chris perkins: 18.
Matt: 18. All right.
Ashley: 12.
Matt: Okay. And you're floating up?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All of you begin to shimmy across the surface. The wind is piercingly cold. The clouds up here are dark and there isn't enough moisture to rain, but there are flashes of some sort of wild lightning storm that go off in the distance in the roiling clouds. As you're making your way across, Pike, your foot skips across one of the stones, it breaks and falls beneath you and you almost lose yourself. Grog grabs you, and holds you in place, and pulls you back up.
Ashley: Sorry, Grog.
Travis: Nobody saw anything.
Ashley: I thought I would be stronger, but I'm still not.
Travis: You're a champ.
Laura: Wait! Aren't you wearing the strength gauntlets?
Ashley: Yes, I am. That brought me to 12. (laughter)
Matt: You all slowly make your way to the very mouth of the cavern. You've been at this point, as well. You wanted to go ahead and make an investigation?
Liam: Scootching in, yeah.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Liam: 24.
Matt: 24. Feeling around the exterior, there are two rocks that are nearly identical, placed at each side of the cavern entrance. Upon approaching, their texture and their weathered appearance is far younger than the rest of the stone around them, and that catches your attention.
Liam: Do I need a further investigation check to discern their nature?
Matt: The nature is some semblance of a magical enchantment. This is a little beyond your understanding unless you want to try and roughshod it in the way you know how.
Travis: Call me up to the front. We got this.
Liam: Scanlan, do you want to grab that big...
Sam: Big what?
Liam: Shale.
Sam: Oh, Shale.
Liam: And yourself.
Sam: You got a trap up there, friend?
Liam: Something. There's rocks up here that look a little funky and I don't think they actually are rocks.
Sam: Rocks? Hey Keyleth, you should go. There are rocks. You could do something with rocks--
Marisha: I love rocks!
Sam: Yeah, I know. Go up there with Shale. Shale's a rock. Go.
Marisha: Okay. What's happening? Where am I?
Liam: Just come up a little bit slowly. There are a couple of rocks up here that look a little funny to me. Don't step on me.
Marisha: Oh right! You're so tiny right now. I keep forgetting that.
Chris perkins: You're very brave for someone so small!
Marisha: Do you want me to put you in a little pouch? Could be like a kangaroo?
Sam: We're going to die!
Liam: Another time.
Matt: As Keyleth and Shale approach the threshold that you're currently standing at, the rest of you are a little ways behind. He points out these two stones. Go ahead and both of you guys make an arcana check. Shale, just from what you've seen in the world.
Chris perkins: Right. 13.
Marisha: I think like, seven. Pretty sure my arcana-- It's seven.
Matt: Oh, druids. You ascertain, Shale, just from stumbling upon such constructions, this is-- There's some sort of magical essence to these rocks. It's old magic, which is the only reason you really recognize it. It's not the hoity-toity-learned-in-a-tower magic all the stupid people in the world tend to learn. This is old magic. That's all you were able to pick from it.
Liam: You know what it is?
Chris perkins: Old magic. (laughter)
Liam: Hey, dirty bard, could you come up here?
Sam: Oi! I'm here now. Sorry. I thought that the rock people could handle it.
Liam: All hands on deck.
Marisha: Scanlan, it's a very pretty rock--
Sam: 11 on arcana.
Matt: It's old magic.
Sam: This is old magic. (laughter)
Sam: Not the kind you learn in those hoity-toity towers.
Ashley: What's going on down there? (laughter)
Sam: Can't you just melt the rocks, Keyleth?
Marisha: Pike, these are very attractive rocks. What does it look like?
Sam: It looks like a rock. Melt it!
Marisha: No. What does it look like? Is it like a slate?
Matt: There are two stones about three to four foot in diameter that are almost matching, that are younger, less weathered than the rest of the stonework around them.
Chris perkins: Is there any way to circumvent them? Or are they in opposite sides?
Matt: They're on opposite sides. You could circumvent them, they're not in your path.
Marisha: I can alter their shape. I can melt, I can do something with them.
Liam: No. Just, they're not real. A few steps back. Trickfoot's--
Marisha: What do you mean, they're not real?
Ashley: I walk up.
Laura: Can you dispel that shit?
Ashley: Yes. Is it magic--?
Sam: It's old magic. (laughter)
Chris perkins: It's old magic. (laughter)
Taliesin: Not the kind of magic you learn in ivory towers.
Chris perkins: Older-than-me magic.
Ashley: That's just old. (laughter)
Sam: It sort of has that old smell to it.
Liam: Hey, fuck it. I'm going to take a good, hard look at this rock.
Marisha: Hang on. We might be able to circumvent it. Right? Can we go around it?
Ashley: I have Dispel Magic, but I wonder if we should use it.
Sam: Dispel that magic!
Ashley: But that's one of my last spells!
Laura: Well then, let's avoid them. Let's just go around them.
Marisha: Is there room on either side of them?
Matt: They are embedded in the sides of the wall. So you could pass through them, over them, however else you want to try and circumvent them.
Marisha: How about this? I'm going to cast Stoneshape, and can I carve out a little path around one of them, on the edge? Carve a little recess?
Matt: You can, yeah.
Sam: See? Rocks! I told you!
Marisha: Rocks!
Taliesin: Old rocks. Not the kind of rocks one finds in ivory towers.
Matt: Yes. Your 4th-level Stoneshape. You cause a portion of the rock wall at the side of the cavern to actually forge itself into a tunnel, circumventing the exterior rock on the left.
Laura: Could you just do that the entire way into the cavern?
Marisha: I can do it two more times. All the way into the cavern.
Sam: Okay. Let's go through the new hole.
Liam: I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to keep doing the same. Come on, you big giant dummy.
Laura: I'm on a broom, do you want to ride it with me? Just kidding-- Percy's already on.
Liam: I'll stealth ahead and look around.
Matt: Okay. So roll your stealth check.
Liam: A new stealth check?
Matt: Yeah, because you've come out of stealth and back into it.
Liam: Okay. Well, I still have Pass Without a Trace, right? So I'm at 40.
Matt: So you make your way into the next portion. You're actually able to start seeing--
Taliesin: Whoa! Slowly!
Liam: You people don't see shit.
Laura: Oh, that's acid!
Matt: --in a raised platform, in a pool of somewhat pungent-smelling liquid as you get even remotely close to it, the fume causes your sinuses to open and burn and tingle.
Liam: They barely get in.
Laura: Yeah. (cutesy voice) It's too small...
Liam: I'm just going to hold still for a second and listen. Do I hear anything?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: 27.
Matt: 27? You hear a very faint breathing. Breathing that is trying to stay quiet, but by the sheer immensity of the beast creating the sound, you can pick up the very subtle movement of air through the normally still cavern. (faint breathing noise)
Liam: I'm going to quietly take-- I'm going to back up 15 feet. (whispers) For everyone who's next to me, and for those who are not, it is in here. It is awake. And it is waiting for us.
Chris perkins: What did he say?
Liam: Pike. Don't. Move.
Ashley: I'm so still.
Liam: Just coming running to go when shit goes down, but don't move.
Travis: (whispers) What about putting her on my back?
Liam: Grog, don't move yet. I'm going to go back in for another look.
Sam: Alone?
Matt: Stealth.
Liam: Well, yeah. I'm not a barbarian. I'm going to go along the edge closest to you and move back to where I stopped to listen.
Matt: About there would be in tandem with where you were.
Liam: And I'm going to go another ten feet in, looking.
Matt: As he curls back, the cavern is revealed further. The pool does come to an end. There are pieces of stone that jut out of the floor. You do see now, scattered across the grounds, occasionally a bit of shine, a little coin-- gold, silver-- elements of wealth that've been dragged deeper into the cavern that have left behind them some remnants in the process of being carried and carted in.
Liam: If I look back, can I see my sister from where I am?
Matt: Actually, no. Because she's really well stealthed.
Liam: She can't see me either?
Matt: No. You guys have no visual perspective on each other. You've all stealthed away from your own party.
Liam: Okay. There's a pool of acid right by me, yeah?
Matt: Yes, there is.
Liam: Is there dim light here?
Matt: The light grows dim at about this point, then it becomes darkness at about this point.
Liam: But you said that I can see a pool of liquid, right?
Matt: Yeah. What little bit of daylight that's coming in the cavern entrance would be over here.
Liam: Is the surface of the liquid flat as far as I can see?
Matt: What you can see, it is flat. There's a little, very faint breeze that occasionally comes through so there's a slight disturbance here and there, but no specific visual disturbance.
Liam: How far along that pool can I actually see? If you had to do a cut-off point?
Matt: Because of your darkvision, being an elf, you can see pretty much to the edge of this.
Liam: Okay. So it doesn't look like there's a big divot?
Matt: There's no displacement of the pool.
Liam: I'm going to creep along the wall towards that pillar. I'll stop in that corner, and then move towards you one. Does it give me a better view?
Matt: A little bit of a further view, just the cavern continues in that direction.
Liam: Can I still hear the same thing?
Matt: You can hear it very faintly. You can't quite make out the source. There is something about the room and the air that's travelling through here. The sound itself, you're just barely catching it and it seems to be reverberating to a small extent off the walls of this cavern, which carry sound very well.
Liam: What do I see if I look up?
Matt: You look up, you see about 60 feet, 70 feet in the air, just past where your vision begins to fade-- The only reason you know there's a ceiling there is because there are a few points of rock, the top of the cavern does descend into stalactites-- it is?
Chris perkins: Stalactites, yes.
Matt: Yes. Thank you.
Liam: There's no large outcrops that this thing could be sitting on?
Matt: Not from what you can see, no. The mineral build-up of the inside of this cavern leads to a direct, slick surface in the walls. The minerals rounded off most of the stone.
Liam: I'm going to backtrack. I'm going to find my sister. And I'm still very little. It's at the back of that cavern. It's not in the pool of acid that's near the front, and it's not just past that. It keeps going back. So if we're going to do this, and we're all just going to throw ourselves into it, and let the chips fall where they may. The best thing that I can do right now is take it unawares, hurt it for as much as I can--
Laura: Are you kidding me right now?
Liam: I'm not kidding you! I want to kill this thing. This is the first stepping stone, and I could potentially take it out. Catch it unawares before it vomits on all of you. I want to do it, and I just want to know that you're going to come in after and finish it if you need to. I told you what I want to do.
Laura: All right. I will give you a minute head start to get across the room. After that, I'm coming in. So you better hope you're at the dragon by that point.
Liam: I start off. Come back and tug. (whispers) Jenga.
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Liam: I'm going back to where I was.
Matt: All right. What is it?
Liam: With Pass Without a Trace? 43.
Matt: All right. So you're back where you were. The rest of you, what are you doing?
Chris perkins: Well, he's a mad little one, isn't he?
Sam: He's not usually little. (laughter)
Liam: I'd like to go around the column, and around the edge of the wall.
Matt: This opens up slightly more, and you get to see a portion of the mineral growth-- a lot of the moisture that has coalesced into the ceiling has come into a central point, and over time, it just built up these central columns of rock and natural materials. A few pools have gathered towards the base. You see portions of the ground where elements of the acrid liquid that filled the pool over here just dripped in. Whether they began this way or turned by the dragon's presence, you are unaware. But that's as far as you can see.
Liam: Further along the wall, that little rock-- yeah. And just a little bit past it. And then closer to you.
Matt: At this point, you can make out that additional pool of acid, the far back corner and a risen platform, you see the portion of the cavernous stone beginning to mass into a higher level towards the far back corner.
Liam: I listen.
Matt: Roll a perception check.
Liam: 20.
Matt: 20. You listen in... Silence. Stillness. The very faint whisper of wind far behind you.
Liam: Around the entire wall. Further, past that pool of acid, even. Further corner.
Sam: Has it been a minute yet?
Taliesin: About half a minute.
Matt: As you come around this corner, being as careful as you can, looking around you-- (impact). Your shoulder hits something.
Liam: Stab.
Matt: Roll initiative.
Liam: I'm going to call it. I mean, mostly I'm 14. I'll take it, that means 19.
Matt: All right. So you have just bumped into the currently invisible form of Umbrasyl lying in wait in the far corner of the cavern. That would be a 20 initiative from Umbrasyl.
Liam: Fuck. You.
Laura: How long has it been?
Matt: At this travel pace, it's been about 45 seconds or so.
Liam: Jenga! (laughter)
Matt: You hear "Jenga!" out of the back of the earring as, let's say the rest of you guys are right here.
Laura: I still want to be stealthed on the broom but I take off into the cavern.
Matt: I assume Trinket is in your necklace?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: All right. This is going to be you, with your big stick.
Chris perkins: Awesome!
Matt: Chilling here with the rest of the party. So, at the top of this round, you just hear the growl, the snarl. (snarling) You say "Jenga," blades already at the ready, you go to stab as (swooshing) all of a sudden, you hear this swishing sound of air being cut through at such a speed that it causes a high-pitched whine. Claws and teeth come spinning out of nowhere. You can't even see your attacker but you feel the brunt force behind each of these blows.
Liam: Because it's invisible, is there no Uncanny Dodge?
Matt: No, you've still got Uncanny Dodge on one of the attacks. Just from your roguish instincts.
Liam: Displacer Cloak.
Matt: Correct. It gets disadvantage on the first attack, which is going to be a bite. That's a natural 19, and a two! With the two, that brings it to a 17.
Liam: Nope.
Matt: So with that, you (whoosh) see for a split second, the ripple of teeth snap before you, missing your face by mere inches before they disappear once again. Two more claws (whoosh) towards you. The first one, that's a 19 again and a seven. That's going to be a 22.
Liam: Just hits. Uncanny Dodge.
Matt: Oh, your AC would be 20 because you're not hasted right now.
Liam: Oh, you're right. Thank you.
Matt: So that would put you at 18 points of slashing damage.
Liam: Halved to nine.
Matt: Halved to nine. Also your displacement is gone from your cloak.
Liam: For this round?
Matt: Yeah. For the next attack, it's a 19. Misses you? 20? Yeah. The second claw swings through, at this point, from the pain of the first strike of the dragon claw hits you, you back up to the very edge of the cave and duck out of the way as you hear the wind change. As you do, you hear the stone crash behind you as the claw misses you, slamming instead to the side of the cavern wall. It's now your turn.
Liam: I'm going to stay right here. I'm going to hold my turn until one of my friends is on top of this thing and then I'm going to stab it.
Matt: You hold your action until one of your friends is on it and then you move? Okay.
Liam: Not on it, but against it, attacking it. Melee attack.
Matt: So that ends your turn. Everyone else, I need you to roll initiative.
Marisha: Oh, shitballs!
Travis: Balls of shit.
Marisha: Whoa! Percy!
Matt: Your initiative from before was--?
Liam: 19.
Matt: So 25 to 20?
Laura: 22.
Taliesin: 30.
Marisha: He rolled a natural 20!
Matt: (laughs) Percy!
Laura: Are you on the broom with me still?
Taliesin: Yeah. I'm hanging so I can drop.
Matt: So that's 20. 20 to 15?
Chris perkins: Another 19.
Matt: Another 19! Nice!
Marisha: 17.
Ashley: 18.
Laura: Nice, Pike!
Matt: So Pike then Keyleth.
Travis: A mere 16.
Matt: Scanlan, what did you get? (laughter)
Sam: I got an eight.
Matt: And Scanlan taking the rear. As you guys hear the crashing of stone at the far corner accompanied directly after the whisper of Vax's cry-out of "Jenga!" you already know shit is going down. Percy, you're up first. Clutching the bottom of the broom that has not moved yet, what are you doing with your turn?
Taliesin: I'm going to drop down. I'll let go of the broom. I'm going to just fire blind where I heard the noise coming from.
Matt: So you're firing in this direction?
Taliesin: Yep.
Matt: Go ahead and make your attacks at disadvantage.
Taliesin: Disadvantage. That is a 25.
Matt: Due to the massive size of this currently still invisible entity, you do manage to catch an odd bullet towards its form. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: Oh my god. Ten points of piercing damage.
Matt: All righty. (gunshot sound) Gun goes off, echoes, little bit of dust comes loose from the ceiling and falls down as you ready for your next shot.
Taliesin: I'll take the next shot. Forget it. Might as well go for it.
Matt: At disadvantage.
Taliesin: That's 20.
Matt: This time, the shot goes the second time (gunshot sound) poofs against some stone in the distance, not hitting its mark.
Taliesin: Third shot for the run. Fucking--
Marisha: Natural 20.
Taliesin: And a one.
Matt: So with that, the third shot (click), nothing emerges from it. And you look down. It's not been a day for Percy.
Taliesin: It's not been a day for Percy. I'm going to start making a dash into the corner there, up in the--
Matt: Not a dash, because you used your action.
Taliesin: No, I'll make a run. Yes, to the wall.
Chris perkins: Is that some sort of weapon?
Taliesin: Not anymore, it's not!
Matt: As she takes her one good arm and cleans out, missing an eye now or maybe missing an eardrum. (laughs) That's going to end your turn, Percy?
Taliesin: Oh god, this is a terrible idea. I'm going to roll and hide behind that pillar behind me. If that's okay?
Matt: This one, right here?
Taliesin: Yeah. I've got to fix this.
Matt: That brings us to Vex.
Laura: Yes. I'm going to fly on my broom as far in as I can. And land, maybe on that? And just shoot arrows towards where I heard it coming from. I feel like I have one blazing bowstring left, because I used it once in the last battle, right?
Matt: You would still have one more use, yes.
Laura: Okay. Then I'm going to try it through the blazing bowstring.
Matt: Go for it. At disadvantage on this shot, as you cannot see the actual entity. You're firing into the darkness.
Liam: Natural 20. And another natural 20?
Laura: Piece of shit! 19.
Matt: 19? Nope!
Ashley: Oh! War God's Blessing.
Matt: Okay. As your reaction, you guide her-- though the blazing bowstring was unfortunately used on the first attack that missed.
Laura: That was just for the first attack. I rolled twice for disadvantage. So that's the blazing bowstring.
Matt: Okay, I misunderstood. As you go for the attack, you see the actual arrow bursting into flames, not quite sure where to fire. You're about to pull back and aim and Pike shouts to you, putting her hand out. Suddenly, a spark of divine energy hits the front of the bow and corrects its course, beyond your actual arm motion, and you release, based on the faith you have in Pike. The arrow strikes true. You hear a slight growling roar from the distance. Go ahead and roll damage.
Ashley: Strike good and true!
Laura: 22.
Matt: 22, nice.
Laura: On my first attack! If I release Trinket, is that an attack? Or is that a bonus action?
Matt: It would say in the actual item.
Laura: Raven's Slumber. You can make a melee attack. No, that's not it. Bonus action to release it! I'm going to use a bonus action, and I'm going to shout at Trinket to go run towards my brother. I'm going to attack it again.
Matt: You send Trinket out, ten feet in front. Trinket is going to go-- it's 40 feet, right?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Trinket rushes forward there. You go make your second attack. Trinket goes: (angry bear growls) big old grizzly bear charging into the darkness, growling echoing through the cavern.
Laura: Oh, disadvantage. 27.
Matt: 27 with disadvantage still hits, yeah. Your honed senses to dragon-kind, you can remember the mass, and general size and placement based on the sound you heard from the growls from the first impact you made. You just strike again in the same direction, hitting true. Roll damage.
Laura: 12.
Matt: 12 damage.
Laura: Is that sneak attack because my brother is next to it?
Liam: It's occupied with me.
Laura: So I would have gotten the sneak attack on both those? Or just on the one?
Matt: Just on the one. Yes, I'll allow it because he is currently threatening it. It was a lucky shot. It was a very lucky shot.
Laura: Additional five.
Matt: All righty, good to know. So, total of--
Laura: 17.
Matt: 17. Thank you. Both arrows done. Trinket rushing in--
Laura: I want to duck down if I can, behind that whatever that I'm standing on now.
Matt: You can duck down, but you've used most of your action in this turn to sail in, and you can't hide per se.
Laura: Okay. I just want to duck behind it so I'm away from anything flying at me.
Matt: Makes sense. All right, so we're now at 20. At this point in time, the roar hits (roaring), echoing through the cavern. As the echoing begins to vibrate and the noise doesn't subside, the low hum turns instead to a (buzzing) as seemingly out of the pool of acid, a cloud of biting, stinging insects emerges.
Marisha: He did Insect Plague.
Matt: (buzzing) Floats in this direction, getting the three of you right there. I'll say for the purposes of this that you guys are both in that radius. Anyway, this cloud of insects moves in to-- I need Percy, Shale, and Vex to make constitution saving throws.
Chris perkins: Aw, eight!
Taliesin: 21.
Laura: 18.
Matt: 18. So you guys both, being dexterous and quick, but also able to maintain your form-- the best you can at this turn-- manage to pull out of the way without too much impact. However, poor Shale is surrounded by the insects.
Chris perkins: Slow and half-deaf.
Matt: You take 12 points of piercing damage as the insects riddle you with bites and stings.
Sam: Shale, do you have any gold teeth or hidden savings accounts that we should also know about?
Laura: She can't hear you, she's deaf.
Matt: At this point now, you hear a few footfalls, Vax. You see a splash in the pool next to you that almost scatters against you, bits of it hitting the edge of your armor, but the armor absorbs the blow, being attuned towards acid resistance. A few other steps as it begins to walk away. I'll allow you to make an attack of opportunity with disadvantage--
Liam: With disadvantage, but-- Yeah, okay.
Matt: Yeah, as you sense that it's moving away, you wildly swing out in front of you.
Liam: Nah. 15.
Matt: 15. Whiffs on air. However, (heavy footfalls) moving forward. A voice comes roaring out into the area, "You dare soil my home after what you've done below?! I will watch you dissolve before I suck down your liquid forms!" I need Vex, Pike, Keyleth, Scanlan, and Percy to all make dexterity saving throws.
Taliesin: Do I not have cover?
Matt: Not enough to prevent this. It's a lobbed stream of liquid acid that comes and surrounds, corroding.
Laura: Do we get advantage on any of it?
Matt: Not unless you have something that gives you advantage on him.
Taliesin: I'm spending a Resolve because that was bullshit. Can I burn another Resolve? Goddamn it.
Matt: Nope. All right, so.
Sam: Can I use Cutting Words to buff my roll?
Matt: You use Cutting Words to reduce the damage.
Sam: But not to-- That seems right, yeah. All right. 18.
Matt: 18, all right. Hold on, I'll just double-check while you're saying this. Just to bring up the ability.
Sam: I should know this.
Matt: It would have to be a damage roll, because there's no attack roll. There's no other roll incorporated on this other than the damage roll.
Sam: Got it. It just happens.
Matt: Right. But it reduces the damage roll, which affects everybody.
Ashley: Wait! I think I cast Resistance. I cast it on Keyleth, I cast it on--
Laura: Me. And I think you cast it on Scanlan.
Matt: It's faded since it's a concentration spell.
Taliesin: Scanlan's got the armor.
Matt: Yeah. If you were to use Cutting Words on this, it would reduce the damage all of you would take from it.
Sam: All right, I will use Cutting Words to reduce the damage.
Matt: What are your cutting words, Scanlan?
Sam: My cutting words are, "Your lower intestine smells like shit!" (laughter)
Matt: Go ahead and roll your bardic inspiration die.
Sam: A ten? Shit roll. Three!
Matt: So 18 saving throw. What was yours?
Taliesin: Ten.
Matt: Keyleth?
Marisha: 14.
Matt: Vex? One. Pike?
Ashley: Seven.
Matt: Seven. Okay, reduced by three, you all suffer 47 points of acid damage.
Sam: Including me, with my acid armor?
Matt: You take half of that.
Laura: Aren't you glad I gave you the armor?
Matt: You take 23 points of acid damage. After its long, angry, boastful diatribe, as it rears back to blow, your words confuse it, and the spray seems a little off-center than what it intended. However, most of you are now currently dealing with the searing pain of the acid pressed against your bodies. Ending that turn, Vax, you're up.
Liam: Did I see where the ejection of acid came out from?
Matt: You did. It came from there, this area.
Liam: Am I still at a disadvantage even though I saw right where that crap came out?
Matt: Correct. Because you don't know if it moved away or not. You don't know exactly where it is. You just know it's somewhere in that vicinity.
Liam: I'm going to throw two daggers at it. I hope that Trinket's near it, but we'll see. So, at disadvantage. Bollocks! That's 15.
Matt: Nope.
Liam: 22.
Matt: 22 just hits. Trinket, however, is actually adjacent to Umbrasyl. So you could do sneak attack damage.
Marisha: Whoa! What's up?
Liam: Keen Dagger. It's 26.
Matt: 26. All right. So one dagger just vanishes into the darkness. The other one sticks into the hide for a second before disappearing in a plume of smoke, reappearing at the side of your belt. You hear a low (snarling grunt).
Liam: Can I use my movement to go along the back edge of the cave as far as I can? Directly opposite from my family.
Matt: All right. Looking at the rest of this cavern--
Laura: Look at all the gold, hiding over there!
Matt: There is what seems to be the majority of the funds that were gathered from Westruun, and whatever else of the previous dragon's hoard have currently been brought over to the new lair. Who knows how much has been--
Liam: I thought that was his magic healing spot, but I guessed wrong.
Matt: So, that end your turn?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: All right. Now it comes to Shale.
Chris perkins: I'm with insects, right?
Matt: You are currently surrounded by stinging, biting insects.
Chris perkins: Okay. I will stride forth. I'm slow and old. I move 20, so I'll use all my movement, 40, to advance.
Matt: There you go. You come pushing through, brushing them off with your stump and your staff, waving it in front. Angrily growling, you come to rest at the side of this one pillar that juts out of the ground, with Vex right above you.
Chris perkins: I'll dimly look into the darkness and see if I can see, hear, or there's just gray mist in front of my eyes right now.
Matt: You can't see anything. But you do hear right in front of you a growling, snarling bear. You see elements and flashes of the bear that you saw Vex summon forth from her throat.
Travis: And the dagger disappeared into something, right?
Chris perkins: All right. But I can't hear the dragon? At all? It's stomping around.
Matt: It's stomping around a little bit. You saw where the actual projectile came from, so you know it's somewhere in this vicinity.
Chris perkins: Well, you're not very brave, are you? Invisible! Hiding! Afraid to show your face? Taunt it. Oh, bollocks! (laughter)
Chris perkins: Well, that would be a nine.
Matt: A nine. You hear, slowly curling out from the darkness ahead of you, "Bravery means nothing. Survival and victory mean everything!"
Chris perkins: Oh, shut up, you flying suitcase!
Matt: And that's how you end a round. Pike, you're up.
Marisha: Oh, it's something my grandma would say. So good.
Ashley: Yeah. I'm going to hold my action and I'm going to backpack onto Grog.
Matt: Okay. So you move over and leap up onto Grog's back, holding tightly. What's the trigger for your action that you're holding?
Ashley: On his next attack on somebody.
Matt: The next time you sense the dragon is attacking somebody?
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: All right. What action are you holding? Is it a spell?
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: So you begin preparing the spell. You are now concentrating on it, as you're holding the back of Grog. Okay. Holding that bit, that brings us to Keyleth. What are you doing?
Marisha: If I move through Insect Plague, will I take damage? Or is it if I end in it?
Matt: You don't know.
Chris perkins: I seemed to waltz through it.
Marisha: That's true. You waltzed through it. And you didn't start in it, did you?
Chris perkins: I did.
Marisha: Oh. But you took the damage up top, you didn't take damage again after you got out of it. All right. I want to see if I can move. I'm having a hard time seeing, Matt. Can I get my full movement of 30 feet into this corner here?
Matt: Over here?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: You're going to get up around there, unless you want to try and go over the top of the rocks. That way is going to require a climb check.
Marisha: Oh really, I can parkour it? Yeah!
Matt: All right, go ahead and make a strength check.
Marisha: 14.
Matt: Yeah, it's not too hard. You ran up, grab, leap over the side. You can get right there.
Marisha: Oh, okay. I think the dragon is roughly here?
Matt: In this vicinity. You can see Trinket is currently snarling and lashing out and biting in this area of the cavern.
Marisha: I'm really sorry, Grog. I'm going to cast Faerie Fire, roughly-- Yeah, somewhere where I think he is.
Laura: Why is that bad?
Marisha: Means you don't have acid resistance anymore. It's a concentration spell. But none of us can see him, yeah.
Matt: All righty. So, Faerie Fire. You guys watch as suddenly, this burst of somewhat violet-ish blue light, like a small, tiny explosion of glitter and starlight just hits the area and outlines the entirety of the large dragon Umbrasyl.
Marisha: And with my bonus action--
Matt: Yeah, failed saving throw.
Marisha: Damn right, he did. With my bonus action, I'm going to go into my--
Matt: Actually, you know what?
Marisha: He's going to do his thing, isn't he?
Ashley: You know, you don't need to.
Matt: Yeah, I do. Third and final legendary resistance. You get a glimpse of where Umbrasyl is and then the magic dissipates. Umbrasyl vanishes from sight.
Sam: Shit.
Taliesin: You've burned his third legendary action. You've burned it. It's gone.
Sam: Matt, did it also negate my disadvantage from Cutting Words, on the save?
Matt: He can succeed automatically. It's a choice to succeed.
Sam: Balls. So that's dead, too?
Matt: Nope.
Sam: Does he use the legendary action before he fails?
Matt: No. That's true. Yeah.
Sam: So it kills that too?
Matt: It does, yeah.
Sam: Nice. No, my thing's dead too. He double-fucked us.
Marisha: Great. Fuck you, asshole!
Laura: He doesn't save it like that?
Matt: Well, no. Essentially he rolled at disadvantage to make the saving throw. Failed it. And then decided to succeed using legendary resistance.
Marisha: Okay. But it's gone! They're gone.
Ashley: They're gone, gone?
Matt: As far as you know, from previous experience with dragons, there are no further uses of its legendary resistance.
Marisha: What a dick.
Matt: Does that end your turn, Keyleth? It's a level one spell, you still have more up your sleeves if you wanted to try it later.
Marisha: I know. I don't think I'm going to go into my beast shape form so I can do another spell next turn. Can I just tuck and see if I could take a bonus action to hide in this little nook and cranny here?
Matt: You can't use a bonus action to hide, unfortunately.
Marisha: Because I'm not a rogue?
Matt: Because you're not a rogue. Sorry, girl.
Marisha: Can I hug that pillar and say, (panting)?
Matt: You can totally do that. And you are currently hugging in the pillar going, (panting). At the end of Keyleth's turn, it's going to use two of its legendary actions to wing attack. It's going to beat its wings, everything within 15 feet, which right now would only be Trinket, has to go ahead and succeed on a dexterity saving throw. Go ahead and roll a dexterity saving throw for Trinket.
Laura: I'm going to roll the brown dice for Trinket. Dexterity? 12.
Matt: 12. Okay. So Trinket takes 15 points of bludgeoning damage--
Laura: He's resistant to bludgeoning!
Matt: Because of the armor?
Laura: Yes!
Matt: So takes seven points of bludgeoning damage. However, he is still knocked prone from the blast of wind that whooshes through the entirety of the cavern, causing dust to raise up. The cloud of insects gets shifted a little bit before having to reform back into its place from the sheer force. In doing so, suddenly, there's a rush of air, and two giant slamming sounds, as feet have placed themselves right up front with Shale and Vax. Vex. I've got a lot to concentrate on.
Sam: When I die, I'm coming back as a character named Vix.
Matt: Then you can find another Dungeon Master. All right, so that ends Keyleth's turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I take the tiny Pike backpack, and I would like to run along the right, the farther wall from you. Opposite direction.
Matt: This way?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: All right.
Travis: 50 feet, using diagonals to try and get as far around that pool as I can.
Matt: That's about as far as you can get there. So that's movement with Pike on your back. So, that's your movement?
Travis: Yep. And I'll use my bonus action to go into a rage.
Matt: All right. (growling)
Travis: Hey Pike, gimme a slap!
Ashley: (slap)
Travis: (growls)
Matt: Sends you into the rage. You still have your action. Anything you want to do?
Travis: Nope.
Matt: Are you holding your action for any particular thing?
Travis: Well, I can't really hit him from here.
Matt: All right. That ends Grog's turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I can't see him, right?
Matt: Not from what you can tell, no.
Sam: Balls. I can see Vex, right? And Shale? Oh, shit. I can't do much without seeing him. Oh, here's what I will do: I'll start by inspiring Shale. I will just step out and sing, (singing) And I will always buff you! And then I will pick a place and cast Stinking Cloud.
Matt: Okay. You take your d10 inspiration die.
Chris perkins: Excellent.
Matt: And Stinking Cloud. Haven't seen that in a while.
Sam: No! Oh well, it's too late, I already said it.
Matt: Stinking Cloud. Where are you setting it?
Sam: Can I have a pointer? Well, I'll just come over. Right here.
Matt: Right there? All right. We'll put this over here to keep track of the Stinking Cloud, we'll just know the insects are in this vicinity as most people have passed beyond it. With that, Umbrasyl is going to attempt a constitution saving throw. Three plus 14, that's a 17. What's the DC?
Sam: 20.
Matt: All right. That will technically be at the start of its turn, but we will carry that over. All right. The cloud appears in this space. You can already hear (coughing). Are you going to move or stay where you are?
Sam: There's no more cloud of insects, yeah?
Matt: It's still in this vicinity.
Sam: Is there any way to avoid it? Move up to where Kiki is or anything?
Matt: Yeah, if you want to make a strength check to climb.
Sam: All right, I'll do that. I'll move up to where Kiki is. 17.
Matt: 17. Yeah, you actually hopscotch up, leap over Percy and get up on top next to her over there.
Sam: Oh, Percy! Didn't notice your bald spot there.
Taliesin: It just grows in lighter.
Sam: Sure.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn, Scanlan. With that, it's going to use its third legendary action this turn to attempt a tail attack against you, Vex.
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: You're welcome.
Liam: That's Vix.
Matt: I will stab you. That is a 19 to hit.
Laura: Nope. 20.
Matt: 20! With that, you dodge out of the way. You feel the impact of some large, heavy slam onto the stone right next to you. Pieces of it break off, and then withdraws, barely dodging it in time. All right, that ends--
Ashley: Since he made an attack, can I?
Matt: Yes, you can.
Ashley: I would like to Command him to be visible. Reveal himself.
Matt: What's the word?
Ashley: Reveal! Appear!
Matt: Appear. There you go! Oh, that's cocked. All right. That is a19 plus 11. I'm pretty sure it makes the save.
Ashley: Fuck you!
Matt: Sorry.
Ashley: Do I still get a bonus action?
Matt: That would've been during your turn. You can only hold your action.
Ashley: (snarls frustratedly)
Matt: Good try. Brings us to the top. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Oh god! Okay, I'm going to take a second to try and pray that my second gun doesn't break because that's going to get really ugly! And it doesn't! My gun is fine.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: My gun is fine. But that's it. I'm going to start running straight down, as far as my legs will take me. Not that way, towards the pool.
Matt: Towards the pool?
Taliesin: Right there. Oh no, that's the insects, that's right. So, yeah.
Marisha: As long as you get out of it.
Taliesin: I'm going to roll around to the stone to the right, then. As far as I can go.
Matt: You can get there. You're outside of the insect cloud, not a worry. As you're running, you're cleaning it, polishing, loading it. Okay, looks good.
Taliesin: Oh, yes. I'm going to spend my bonus action to do a quick heal.
Matt: Okay, your Second Wind?
Taliesin: My Second Wind.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: Oh, god. That was awful. That's okay. So, yeah. Good. You can move on, sorry.
Matt: Okay. Vex.
Laura: Do I have any kind of sense of-- Ugh, your Stinking Cloud is right there.
Matt: Yeah. You do see some elements of the cloud are displaced in places. It's not showing you exactly where it is, but you are aware that the entity of Umbrasyl is directly in front of Shale, and nearly directly in front of you.
Marisha: Enough to negate the disadvantage?
Matt: No. Not to mention the fact that you are technically in its melee range. So any of your ranged attacks--
Laura: Are at disadvantage again, right?
Matt: Unless it's five foot. Is it five foot, or is it melee? Trying to remember. I think it's five feet. But regardless, it's close to you, it's bad news.
Laura: If Trinket gets up, does that use any of my stuff? Trinket can move freely--
Matt: Trinket can move independently of you.
Laura: So Trinket is going to get up.
Matt: It's half-movement, yeah.
Laura: And he's going to bite Umbrasyl's tail to try to distract him, so I can run between his legs.
Matt: Okay. So Trinket's going to go ahead and-- roll a perception check for Trinket.
Liam: Trinket, snack attack!
Laura: Oh, he's got a keen sense of smell, so he's got advantage on smell perception.
Matt: But there is a Stinking Cloud right there. Roll again. We'll see if Trinket can discern between--
Laura: Well, I rolled a 15. And I don't know what I add to it.
Matt: That would be Trinket's wisdom--
Laura: --oh, perception, seven. So 22
Matt: 22. Okay. Trinket (bear sniffs and growl) runs past here, but can only make 20 feet of its movement because he used the rest to get out of prone. However, strafes aside and begins reaching out and starts snapping, so you want to give Trinket--?
Laura: He's going to attack him.
Matt: Okay. As part of your attack action? Is that what you're doing?
Laura: Yeah, I'm going to have Trinket do one of his attacks so I can move and run.
Matt: As your bonus action on it? Okay, go for it. Have Trinket roll for an attack. With disadvantage because it is invisible.
Laura: That doesn't count? I feel like it still counts, though. It's only 15.
Matt: 15. Trinket slashes out in the air. With the obfuscation of the Stinking Cloud and the invisible dragon, Trinket's just getting mouthfuls of air.
Laura: What does Stinking Cloud do to me?
Marisha: Makes you sick.
Sam: Makes you sick.
Laura: Fuck. I try to run away. I try to run around and run past Umbrasyl.
Sam: You're not in the cloud.
Laura: But I would go through it if I tried to run between its legs. I'll just try to run along to the side.
Matt: On the broom, still?
Laura: Sure! Why the fuck not?! I'm on the broom. Does it matter?
Matt: I mean, that will give you a little more action, you just can't attack from the broom because you'll have disadvantage on your attacks since you haven't finished your set-up yet.
Laura: Jesus. I just want to run, on the broom, and use my bonus action. Is that as far as I can get?
Matt: As far as you can get on your regular feet.
Laura: On my broom, though?
Matt: There.
Laura: And can I use my bonus action to hide? Can I try to hide?
Matt: You are completely out in the open. You have no way of hiding right now. You be can like, "Hide! You don't see me!"
Liam: You can dash and get further away.
Laura: I'm going to dash and I'm going to get further away.
Liam: Rogue bonus action? Hide, dash, disengage.
Matt: Yes, you can.
Laura: Yeah! I'm going to hide behind those things.
Matt: There?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, you can get there. However, as you rush by, Umbrasyl does get an attack of opportunity on you. He's going to make a bite as you rush by. That is going to be a 30 to hit?
Laura: I think that hits.
Matt: All right.
Ashley: Isn't it at a disadvantage since he's in smoke?
Matt: Huh?
Laura: Because he's in farts?
Matt: No. That's not quite what it does. (laughter)
Matt: Oh, that's a d10. Sorry. You take 25 points of piercing damage. Plus an additional eight points of acid damage from the inside of its mouth.
Laura: Cool. Tight, tight.
Matt: A total of 33 points of damage as you rush past. All right, that ends your turn, Vex?
Laura: Oh, that it does.
Matt: All right. The insect cloud fades away, insects just dying off and dropping to the ground in piles of currently twitching insects. However, the acid pools suddenly begin to rumble and expand and reach out.
Laura: I'm glad I hid by another acid pool.
Matt: Any creature within 20 feet of the pool has to make a strength saving throw. So that will be Shale, Grog, Pike and Vex.
Laura: Yay.
Chris perkins: Five!
Sam: You have inspiration, if you want to use it.
Ashley: What are we rolling for?
Laura: A strength or a dex saving throw?
Matt: Strength.
Travis: 23.
Matt: 23, good to know. Pike?
Ashley: 21.
Matt: All right.
Laura: 13.
Matt: 13. And? Five. All right, so you guys both manage to, as the pool swishes out and comes up to your knees, Grog, and you just pull back and lean against the wall. As the pool subsides back, no immediate effect. Just barely manages to catch you. However, both Shale and Vax are pulled 20 feet into the pool--
Laura: Vex.
Matt: I'm sorry. Vex. I keep saying it now. Over and over again. Pulled into the actual acid pool.
Laura: It's like adding insult to injury. You're going to die and I'm going to call you your brother the entire time.
Matt: Yep. I'm sorry about that. You both are knocked prone and pulled into the water. Because it is an acid pit, you both also suffer 12 points of acid damage. Both Shale and Vex.
Marisha: That's a thing that can happen. All right.
Matt: All right. Now Umbrasyl, who failed the saving throw--
Sam: Gets to spend his entire turn coughing.
Matt: I can't believe Stinking Cloud worked.
Sam: Spends his entire turn.
Matt: The creature spends its action retching and reeling.
Liam: I hope he coughs his innards out the hole in his gut. Dragon hernia.
Matt: Yep. So the action is spent, the dragon is just (coughing), which is good because it rolled a five and got its breath weapon back. But it can't use it this turn because it's coughing and "You-- I will-- " It rears back, about to spit the acid before (coughs) and bits of it come streaming out of the nose, like the milk-in-the-nostrils thing except for it's acid. That's the dragon. Okay. That ends its action. It is going to move out, see if it's-- I forgot to roll concentration for the Invisibility on the last attack that happened. I just rolled a one. With that, it appears once again on the map. The Invisibility spell no longer there.
Marisha: Oh, thank god!
Laura: Now we can watch it kill us.
Matt: It's going to stomp over, out of the cloud, right there.
Sam: Does Trinket get an attack?
Matt: He does, actually. Go ahead and roll for Trinket.
Laura: Yeah, he does! I don't know which one to roll here. They've all been betraying me. 17.
Matt: 17? That misses. Or it hits and Trinket's claws streak across the back of the dragon's hide. No damage sustained. But good job, Trinket. All right, so--
Laura: He's trying, man. He's out. He's so brave.
Matt: He's doing great. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay. I'm going to dart out behind the pillar of stone there. And I'm going to chuck a dagger at it.
Matt: All right. What's the far range on it?
Liam: 60. I'm a Sharpshooter, so there's no disadvantage.
Matt: He's out of range.
Liam: Then I'll move closer. I mean, I know how far I can throw a dagger, so I want to get up close enough to be within range to throw a dagger.
Matt: Still can't get close enough, not with your full movement. You can move 30 feet.
Liam: Where are you? You're in the acid?
Laura: I am in the acid.
Liam: Oh! I'm going to go to my sister, I'm going to drag her out and I'm going to pop the one healing potion I have down her gullet.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I'm going to pull her behind, so we're both behind that pillar.
Matt: Okay, so you pull her behind the pillar. You go ahead and feed her the healing potion. That is your turn. He dragged you out of the acid pool.
Liam: Potion of greater healing.
Matt: All right, so that is a 4d4 plus four healing to you. That ends Vax's turn. Shale, you're up.
Chris perkins: All right. I'm going to stand up if I can and make my way back onto firm rock. Do I take any damage when I start my turn?
Matt: You do, actually. You take six points of acid damage. You've now stepped up right there. The dragon is fully visible to you.
Chris perkins: Pick on someone your own size! And I whack him on the derriere with my staff.
Matt: Go for it. You have three attacks, correct?
Chris perkins: The first one is a very sad 14. I'm not going to waste the d10 on that.
Matt: Across the hide, no damage.
Chris perkins: Oh my god!
Marisha: No, Chris, no.
Sam: Inspiration?
Chris perkins: Natural one.
Matt: As a level 13 fighter, don't you get a third attack with your action?
Chris perkins: What's that? Oh, yes, you're right. That one, I rolled a 19. I will spend the inspiration die and turn it into a 26.
Matt: Okay. Roll damage with the quarterstaff.
Chris perkins: I do 11 points of whacky-whacky damage and try to bait this thing into turning on me.
Matt: Okay.
Chris perkins: I will also use my second wind.
Matt: All right. Go for it.
Chris perkins: To regain 15 hit points.
Matt: 15 hit points to you, go for it. Ending Shale's turn, that brings us to Pike. But at the end of Shale's turn, the dragon is going to use a legendary action to attempt a tail attack against you, Scanlan, as you are the source of the Stinking Cloud that caused it to cough. It goes, (growls) "Foolish bard, get back into my stomach!" And as it whips around, its tail comes streaking overhead and it rolls a natural one! (cheering)
Matt: As it spins around, that's when your staff actually hits the back of its hide. As it does, it gooses it a little, in a sensitive place, and the tail arcs strangely and slams into the stone, next to you, missing you by about six inches.
Sam: Ah! Great. I'll take it.
Matt: Pike, it's your turn.
Ashley: All right. (sing-song) I'm going to Guiding Bolt him right up the butt! (laughter)
Matt: You're in the position for it.
Ashley: Yep!
Matt: What level are you casting Guiding Bolt?
Ashley: Third.
Matt: Third level on Guiding Bolt. All right. That will put it at 6d6. So go ahead and roll a spell attack.
Ashley: Natural 20.
Matt: Go ahead and roll 6d6 and we'll double it.
Ashley: And double it?
Matt: It's a critical hit.
Ashley: I've never done that before!
Chris perkins: Right up the butt!
Marisha: Monstah! Kill him!
Liam: Kan-cho!
Taliesin: Kan-cho!
Marisha: Kan-cho!
Ashley: Oh my god, 24! One more! So, 50 points.
Matt: 50 points of radiant damage right up Umbrasyl's posterior. Suddenly as Pike, still clutching onto the back of Grog, you reach and grab the symbol of Sarenrae, leaving your sword to the side of your sheath, hold it forward. And as you do, you concentrate, a glowing beam of radiant energy shoots forward just as Shale knocks the backside of Umbrasyl. The tail streaks overhead to hit Scanlan, leaves you a nice, direct shot right at the dragon rump. There's a dull (impact) sound, and Umbrasyl sits straight up for a second (confused noise, explosion) as there's a burst of divine, explosive energy right in the posterior (painful growl). Looking back, there's now a shiny glow, pulsing from the back of Umbrasyl's body. And the next attack has advantage against Umbrasyl.
Ashley: Still alive!
Matt: That's your action. You still have your movement and bonus, if you want.
Ashley: Okay. I think I'm going to stay, and then bonus action, I'm going to throw up a Spiritual Weapon.
Matt: Okay. Where do you want your Spiritual Weapon to go? What level is Spiritual Weapon, Second level? Yep.
Ashley: Yeah. A really large meathook.
Matt: All right. Where are you setting it?
Ashley: Right at his back.
Matt: All right. Sitting right there at the tail of Umbrasyl, this giant, glowing, radiant meathook appears and makes its strike. Go ahead and make your spell attack against Umbrasyl.
Ashley: 27.
Matt: All right. That hits. Go ahead and roll damage. It's a 1d8 plus five.
Ashley: Ten.
Matt: Nice, all right. Going to stay where you are? Or you going to move?
Ashley: I'm going to stay with my Grog.
Matt: So you're still piggybacking on Grog. Got it. Okay, that ends Pike's turn. Keyleth, you're up. Actually, at the end of Pike's turn--
Ashley: You know what, I'm sorry, I'm going to get off his back.
Matt: Okay. You're staying where you are, though?
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, so you'll be there. At the end of your turn, Umbrasyl's going to use another legendary action to make a second tail attack at Scanlan again, frustrated by this whole circumstance.
Sam: I'm sure he is.
Matt: That's a 20.
Sam: Can I use Cutting Words?
Matt: You may, if you want to.
Sam: All right.
Matt: It's a natural 20.
Sam: Oh?!
Matt: You could reduce the damage though, with your Cutting Words.
Sam: All right, I'll do that.
Matt: Probably for the best. For that, you suffer 28 points of bludgeoning damage. As the tail swoops down, finding its mark, slamming into you, sending you against the wall of the stonework, and you stumble forward back into place, feeling already the impact of the bludgeoning wound.
Sam: That's a four, so.
Matt: So you reduce that to 24.
Taliesin: That halved? No, that's not halved. Sorry-- brain!
Matt: So 24 points of bludgeoning damage from the attack. However, Umbrasyl's next saving throw is at a disadvantage because of Mythcarver. Now, Keyleth, what are you doing?
Marisha: Okay. Faerie Fire (poof) right in front of me. Right on top of him. It gives everybody advantage on attacks against him.
Matt: Yes, it does.
Laura: That's great.
Marisha: I hope he's got enough hit points to make it worth it.
Matt: With disadvantage on the saving throw.
Marisha: Yeah, take it, bitch! Glitter bomb! It's like a Kesha music video.
Matt: So that's a four plus nine because of the disadvantage. I rolled a ten and a four. That will bring it to 13. It does not succeed. You watch as a second burst of purplish energy surrounds Umbrasyl, radiating a glow.
Chris perkins: Who's the prettiest dragon?
Marisha: You're so pretty!
Matt: Gilmore would love this right now. "Fancy dragon! Now we're talking!" You went from being not able to see the dragon to very much being able to see the dragon. All right.
Marisha: I'm going to use my bonus action to turn into a water elemental.
Matt: Okay! Look at you being a druid and shit.
Marisha: Yeah. That's how I roll.
Travis: Get it, girl! Get it, get it, girl!
Marisha: Get it, girl! Get it, get it, girl!
Matt: Water elemental Keyleth. Are you going to stay there?
Marisha: Can I move?
Matt: If you'd like to.
Marisha: Am I in his range of attack?
Matt: You gather, yes. Pretty big range.
Marisha: Honestly, Umbrasyl is so fucking big, I can't see what's going on in front of me.
Matt: You're right there.
Marisha: Is Scanlan in front of me?
Matt: Scanlan is right next to you, to the right.
Marisha: Can I step in the front and shield Scanlan?
Matt: Unfortunately, the cliff ends right there. So you couldn't get in front of Scanlan without dropping onto a lower platform.
Marisha: What about anybody else?
Matt: Percy is down there. You could fill some of Umbrasyl's space but you're not going to be able to guard anybody from an attack, unfortunately. Especially being an entity made of water, not a whole lot of defensive strategy in there.
Marisha: Okay. I'm next to Shale as well, right? We're all in the shit together?
Matt: Shale's over here.
Marisha: Oh, Shale's over there.
Matt: Flanking from the side.
Marisha: You know what, I'm just going to stay there!
Matt: All right. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I would like to run along the side of the pool, and up on his left side, closest to the entrance of the cave. Right there would be delicious.
Matt: There you go.
Travis: I would like to go into a frenzied rage. A regular strike on the first.
Matt: You already have advantage on all the attacks because of Faerie Fire. So you don't need--
Travis: Yeah, not reckless. Not great weapon.
Matt: Yeah. Go for it.
Taliesin: Is that a 20?
Ashley: Oh, oh! That would be a natural 20!
Sam: Oh! That's not going to be good for him.
Matt: Barbarian crits, man.
Travis: I keep rolling, yeah?
Matt: Well, do the damage for the critical, yeah.
Taliesin: This and the next round are going to be really ugly.
Marisha: Kill it. Fucking kill it!
Travis: 24.
Matt: 24. Okay.
Travis: Is the roll and then, what? Double it or add another--?
Matt: The dice roll is? Well, you roll 1d12. What was that, the first d12 you rolled?
Travis: That was a 15. Oh, the dice roll? 12.
Matt: 12. So make a-- it was a 12?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Oh, shit! Okay, that's a 24. And then you add your modifier. And then roll two more d12s. So, that's 24 plus, is that seven?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Plus the two for the axe. Oh my god! That'll be at 33. Plus the necrotic-- oh, fuck! And that's doubled too.
Travis: So that's an 11 for the second d12.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Should we write these numbers down?
Matt: Yeah, we have to now. So it's 24 plus two for the axe, plus seven for the strength.
Travis: Plus five for the necrotic--
Matt: Hold on, getting there. We're getting there. It's getting math crunchy here, guys. So 24 plus nine, so that's 33, plus-- the necrotic?
Travis: Five.
Matt: Times two, which is ten. That's 43, plus the two other d12s, which is an 11. So that's 54. Plus your last d12.
Travis: It's a ten.
Matt: You did 64 points of damage with this one critical hit.
Ashley: He's a monstah!
Travis: Monstah!
Marisha: Monstah!
Laura: Monstah!
Matt: All right. So that's your first attack.
Travis: Yeah.
Chris perkins: Dragon's like, hello!
Marisha: Disco dragon!
Travis: 20.
Matt: 20. The first strike swings wide and slams deep into an already open wound left by a rogue earlier in the sky. This time, the axe sinks deep into its body, and Umbrasyl roars out in immense pain. You see spittle and blood both being jettisoned from its mouth under the sheer pain that it's feeling. You take the axe, and you push even deeper, and push even deeper and withdraw. As you do, the blade is entirely covered in deep purplish-black dragon blood. You swing for a second strike. This time it puts its claw out and catches the axe in the middle of the air. You manage to wrench it free from its grasp, but it turns its head toward you, angrily.
Ashley: Can I use War God's Blessing again?
Matt: That is Channel Divinity? I'll go ahead and double-check here real fast.
Marisha: We also have Heroes' Feast up, by the way, if that makes any amount of difference.
Matt: It won't do anything. It helped you with the temporary hit points, it helped you with--
Sam: Fear?
Marisha: Fear?
Liam: Fear?
Matt: It helped you with the fear-resistance to begin with. That was a big one. Channel Divinity, War God's Blessing and you can Channel Divinity twice. So you can do it a second time, you can. Wait, didn't you use it-- between rests, yeah. You could do it a second time if you want to.
Ashley: Yeah!
Matt: All right. So with that, with a plus ten brings it to 30. So, as Umbrasyl grabs the axe, stopping it in mid-air, you just grin, reach forward with the axe, and push it into its actual claw. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: You nasty, boy! 27.
Matt: 27 points of damage. All right. And do you want to use your bonus action?
Travis: I do.
Matt: Yes, you do.
Travis: Let's do it great weapon master, just for kicks.
Matt: All right.
Travis: 26 minus five is 21.
Matt: 21. As you push the blade into Umbrasyl's hand, (angry snarl) it rears back its head and snaps toward you. You duck out of the way, pull the blade back and go for a third strike. This time however, it actually rears its torso up, putting its claws in the air, and you (slicing) find air right beneath it. Does not strike true.
Travis: Cool. Good beans.
Matt: Yeah. That finishes Grog's turn. At the end of Grog's turn, it's going to use its third legendary action to go ahead and make a-- Actually, no, its going to hold onto that legendary action. All right, that brings us to Scanlan.
Sam: Jesus, it's not dead yet?
Matt: Scanlan, because you took the tail attack earlier, I'll have you roll a concentration check for Stinking Cloud. You have advantage on it though, so add your constitution bonus.
Sam: 20.
Matt: Yeah, you're fine.
Sam: Great. I've got my Stinking Cloud, still. I would like to move the Stinking Cloud. Oh! No, I can't do that.
Matt: You can.
Sam: You can move a Stinking Cloud?
Matt: I think it moves from a short breeze, actually.
Sam: Eh, it's fine.
Matt: Older versions, I think you could.
Sam: I don't want the Stinking Cloud to move. All right, he's right on us, he's got a legendary action. This is not good. Okay, I will reintroduce him to Bigby's Hand, (singing) Bigby's Hand! And I'm going to use it as an-- Ugh, so weak! Interposing Hand.
Matt: Bigby's Interposing Hand, all righty.
Laura: What is that?
Sam: It will block him. It's a talk-to-the-hand move.
Matt: The idea is, you can use your bonus action to set it each turn to what you want it to do. So right now, you're having it as an Interposing Hand. So, yeah. It prevents it from moving--
Sam: Wait, just moving? It can still attack?
Matt: The Interposing Hand interposes between you and a creature you choose until you give it a different command. It stays between the two of you, providing you half-cover against the target. So it helps from ranged attacks.
Sam: Oh. But it won't block an attack. So in that case, I'll just attack with it.
Matt: Okay, so you're just going to go and Clenched Fist?
Sam: I'm going to try to finger it right in the hole that I came out of before.
Matt: Of course you are! Go ahead and make a melee spell attack.
Sam: He's the Bigby and the dike!
Matt: That would be over here
Sam: What do I roll? d20?
Matt: d20, add your spell attack modifier.
Sam: Oh! 27. Oh! With advantage? 27.
Matt: 27, that hits. Go ahead and roll 4d8 force damage, as Bigby angrily jams the magical finger back into the wound.
Ashley: Rage fingering?
Liam: This dragon is being violated in so many ways.
Sam: It's just ten. 4d8 plus what?
Matt: It's 4d8 force damage.
Sam: That's it, ten.
Matt: Ten points of force damage.
Sam: Yes.
Liam: Not like this!
Matt: All right, Scanlan, are you going to move or stay where you are?
Sam: If I move, he'll kill me, so I won't. Instead, I will-- where's Vax?
Matt: Vax is over here.
Sam: Way over there?!
Liam: Playing medic with my sister.
Laura: Hey!
Sam: Jesus. Who can I inspire? I guess I'll inspire good old Shale again. You don't need inspiration, you're fine! This is an old lady! I'll turn to Shale and say, I don't normally do this, but I find you so attractive! For an old lady!
Chris perkins: Focus on the dragon!
Sam: I can't! With your eyes-- eye? Eye so beautiful! So twinkling when it looks at me! I just want you to hold me in your arm tonight! (laughter)
Chris perkins: Have you ever had sex? (laughter)
Sam: No!
Taliesin: It was just hanging there!
Sam: Yes, I've had sex, Shale! I have a daughter.
Matt: He says this as a giant Bigby's Hand is just (impact sounds) at the side of a giant, black dragon. That brings us to the top of the initiative round. Percy, it's your turn. Oh my god.
Taliesin: Okay. How close am I to this dragon?
Matt: You are about ten feet from it right now.
Taliesin: I'm walking right the fuck up to it.
Matt: Okay, Percy. You walk right up to the dragon.
Taliesin: I'm pulling out the sword. And I'm going to fucking town, screaming like a little girl the entire time.
Marisha: Kill it! Advantage!
Taliesin: With advantage.
Marisha: All day! Advantage all day!
Laura: Kill that fucking dragon.
Taliesin: 26!
Matt: 26 hits.
Taliesin: All right, first damage. 23 points of damage.
Matt: 23 points of damage, all right.
Taliesin: For shot number one. Shot number two.
Marisha: Big money, no whammies. That's good!
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Marisha: Sorry, excitement.
Taliesin: Ten, 16, 16 times two is 32. 39, that's 39 points of damage. Number three! Oh, it gets worse. I'm going to die. Okay, I can do better than that. No, he can't. 22.
Matt: 22 just hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: That's 18 points of slashing damage.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Action surge, motherfucker!
Matt: Go for it.
Chris perkins: Going Ginsu on this dragon.
Matt: I know, seriously.
Taliesin: It is not an awesome hit, it's just a hit. I'm really excited. 18 points of damage.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Shot number two.
Sam: Oh my god.
Taliesin: That's a hit.
Laura: Natural 20?
Taliesin: Natural 20. This is to make up for all these fucking ones.
Laura: Why doesn't Percy just always attack melee?
Marisha: He's bad at it most of the time.
Taliesin: 47 points of damage. Final attack.
Sam: Wait, what?
Liam: How is this possible?
Marisha: Because he's a fighter, he gets three attacks per round.
Taliesin: Plus an action surge for a second attack set of three. So I'm basically going-- Yeah.
Marisha: It's like a John Wu film.
Taliesin: It's just a fucking John Wu attack. Oh my god, it hit. Just barely, because it was a one, otherwise. And that final hit is-- oh, that's good. 27 points of damage, and I'm done.
Matt: As you unload on Umbrasyl, the pent-up anger and frustration, you start slashing over and over again. You guys watch as the blade shines in the air in the presence of its naturally designed enemy. You see at the corners of his outfit little tufts of dark smoke beginning to appear. The scar of Orthax still shows when the fury builds within Percy. As each blow strikes, cutting away hunks and bits of dragon flesh and scale, Umbrasyl is heavily wounded and looking desperate. That ends your turn, I believe?
Laura: Oh my god, he's still alive?
Matt: You guys gave it time to rest.
Taliesin: Fuck it, bonus action, I'm putting on the mask and standing my ground. Fuck it.
Matt: Amazing what a dragon can do in two hours.
Taliesin: Yeah, I'm done.
Matt: All right. Vex.
Laura: Hi. Okay. I'm going to--
Matt: Actually, at the end of Percy's turn, he's going to use his third legendary action, knowing the source of the Faerie Fire and extremely frustrated by the fact that it has lent to a very difficult round, it turns towards the now water elemental quivering before it, and the tail comes down to smash towards your liquid form.
Marisha: (burbling)
Matt: Speaking of natural 20s.
Taliesin: It's okay.
Marisha: Come on, bitch. Come on.
Taliesin: You're fine.
Marisha: Totally fine. I'm an elemental for a reason.
Taliesin: You are totally fucking fine.
Matt: 32 points of bludgeoning damage.
Marisha: Halved.
Matt: Halved, because of your elemental. Does water elemental have resistance to damage?
Marisha: Yeah, it has damage resistance against acid, bludgeoning, piercing, slashing from non-magical weapons.
Matt: All right, so half that. So 32 made to 16. 16 points of bludgeoning damage. I need you to go ahead and roll a concentration check.
Marisha: What did you say?
Matt: Roll a concentration check. So roll a d20 and add your constitution modifier.
Taliesin: Even if it goes, it was worth it.
Marisha: Not bad, not bad. Hang on, sorry. Just my straight modifier, it's not a save? Okay, 18!
Matt: You maintain concentration. You needed to beat the 16.
Marisha: Whoa, daddy. All right.
Matt: Well, half the damage. No, it would've been ten, actually, because it's half the damage you receive.
Marisha: Half the damage I receive, so yeah, I'm good. I'm golden.
Matt: All right, cool. So Vex, what are you doing?
Laura: Oh, jeez. Who all is within five feet of it? Is everybody within five feet of it?
Matt: A lot of them are. Pretty much the whole party aside from Pike, you, and your brother.
Laura: Then I'm just going to attack it twice.
Taliesin: With advantage.
Sam: Oi, Matt. My Bigby's is concentration, so that cloud's gone, by the way.
Matt: Correct, thank you.
Laura: 19 plus 12 hits.
Sam: Did you shoot it in the back?
Matt: Yes, it does. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Can I Hunter's Mark him?
Matt: As a bonus action?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right. Good memory on that one.
Laura: 19 on the first hit.
Matt: 19 damage? All right.
Laura: Then the second one hits as well, 17 plus 12.
Matt: Yep. Go ahead and roll damage for the second hit.
Laura: 23.
Matt: 23. All right. So, ending your turn, comes to the top of the round. Umbrasyl, now gripping into the stone, "I will not fall!" Suddenly, darkness begins to sweep into the area. In this area, a 15-foot radius all completely around Umbrasyl, all of you in this area, your vision goes dark.
Liam: Cancels out Faerie Fire and the golden butt?
Matt: Cancels out Faerie Fire. This is magical darkness.
Sam: It's not a spell, right?
Liam: For those of us on the outside, do we see a bubble of darkness where Key and the others--
Sam: A spell, Matt?
Matt: No, this is an effect of the lair. Actually, Faerie Fire would still affect it if you attacked it, per se, but it doesn't reveal its location currently within the darkness. However, it is technically larger than the darkness. Regardless, all of you guys that are in there, it would negate the advantage you would have from Faerie Fire. It would just be a central attack.
Marisha: So it wouldn't give us disadvantage, it would just be straight rolls?
Matt: A little bit of it's piercing through, because it is magic on magic. However, the rest of you see most of the party disappear into a giant sphere of magical darkness that fills the space.
Laura: So we on the outside, we can't use Faerie Fire? It's just a bubble of dark? Or do we see Umbrasyl peeking out?
Liam: He said he's bigger than the dark, so we see his head coming out.
Matt: You see the wings poking out the sides of it. You still see where he would be. Okay, so with that, Umbrasyl is going to go ahead and take a risk. He's going to lift his wings and head upward to move into an advantageous position.
Sam: No, it's not!
Marisha: Come on. Come on, Scanlan.
Sam: I'm going to say, you leave when Burt Reynolds says you can fucking leave! And I will Bigby's Hand, and I will bring him back down, because I get a spell on his retreat.
Taliesin: I love watching him look at the phone.
Marisha: Consult the helix.
Matt: Unfortunately, you have to be grasping it or grappling it to attempt to--
Sam: No, I get a full spell action. It's my lore feature. I get to cast a brand new fucking spell when he lifts off.
Matt: Which one?
Sam: College of Lore. If he retreats, I get to cast a spell. This is the exact same thing that happened last time.
Matt: Trying to remember how this works. College of Lore. I don't know if it is. Because what you do is you grapple--
Sam: Oh, no, it's a War Caster feature.
Matt: Oh, War Caster! Thank you, that clarifies it. I was like, I don't see this in the College of Lore! You're confusing me! So as a War Caster, when a hostile creature's movement provokes an opportunity attack from you, you can use your reaction to cast a spell at the creature rather than making an opportunity attack. So yeah, if you wanted to go ahead and attempt to grapple--
Sam: I will grapple him and pull him back down.
Matt: You can totally attempt that. Bigby, go ahead and make a strength athletics check to beat a dragon's strength. Bigby is just slightly under the strength of the dragon, so let's see. It's a roll-off.
Sam: It's a roll-off! Oh my god. This is a critical roll. That's a two.
Matt: It was a 19 on my end. Natural 19. As Bigby's Hand reaches forward, the angry, wounded, frustrated, furious Umbrasyl just kicks the hand away, pulling up.
Taliesin: Do we get an attack of opportunity?
Matt: Attack of opportunity from you, you, you, and you.
Marisha: Down, bitch, down!
Ashley: And the Spiritual Weapon, right? And the Spiritual Weapon?
Matt: No, it does not get attacks of opportunity.
Marisha: Without advantage, even though he's retreating?
Matt: Without advantage, because of the magical darkness that has surrounded you guys.
Marisha: Even though he's retreating in Faerie Fire? That doesn't double it?
Matt: The darkness would give you disadvantage, the Faerie Fire negates that. I'm letting you do this.
Marisha: Okay. Letting you do this! Be thankful of what you have! 22 exactly.
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: 20.
Chris perkins: My staff bounces right off.
Matt: Okay. Grog?
Travis: 23.
Matt: All right, so Grog and Keyleth both get a hit in. Go ahead and roll damage.
Marisha: Shit. Balls. Low. Shit. Eight damage from the elemental.
Travis: 20.
Matt: 20, all right.
Travis: 25. Plus the necrotic.
Matt: Good to know.
Marisha: And we decided I don't get my fire hands when I'm a water elemental?
Matt: Because that's bullshit.
Marisha: Yeah, all right.
Taliesin: That would just be steam.
Matt: So as you swing out, you arc, and the axe strikes across the back of Umbrasyl's hide. You slam with your water elemental form. The flight is staggered, and barely lands on his feet. Umbrasyl, "I will take you all down!" Unleashes.
Marisha: Here it comes.
Matt: I need a dexterity saving throw from Shale, Percy, Keyleth, and Scanlan.
Laura: Oh, it's that whole table!
Sam: Seven!
Chris perkins: 24.
Marisha: 12.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: All right. Shale actually succeeded on that one. DC 23.
Marisha: DC 23!
Matt: So you take half damage on that one. That's going to be, doing the dice rolls here. So that's 62 points of acid damage down to 31 to Shale, and 31 to you because you're resistant. So 62 points of acid damage to both of you guys.
Sam: My armor, does that do anything?
Matt: Your armor takes it by half, so you would take 31.
Taliesin: 62? Okay.
Chris perkins: Cursed lizard, we're going to give all your treasure to the poor!
Matt: And with that, it takes the rest of its action to move further back at its 80 foot flight, and it's going to end up right about there.
Sam: It's too big to fit in its own house.
Matt: I know! Leaving the Spiritual Weapon there. All right, that's going to end its turn. That now brings it to Vax.
Liam: The twins still have advantage because it's got the Faerie Fire on it, right? You said everyone in it?
Matt: Oh, you need to make a concentration check, by the way, from the damage you just took.
Marisha: Did he get out of the darkness?
Matt: He did.
Marisha: Ooh, ouch, not good at all. What am I making, just a constitution check?
Matt: Add your constitution modifier.
Marisha: I don't think it's going to be enough. Eight.
Matt: The Faerie Fire fades as the acid consumes you, no longer affected by it.
Marisha: Shit.
Matt: All right. Vax, it's your turn. To answer your question, no.
Liam: Nobody's near it anymore, right?
Matt: Nope.
Liam: Okay. I would like to scrabble up behind it, as close to its treasure pile as I can get.
Matt: Okay, that would be about there.
Liam: And I'm going to throw. Shit. No, cancel that. I'd like to run up its tail.
Matt: Okay. You go rushing, clambering onto the back of its tail. It swoops around and sees you doing so, but you're already quick and on it. What are you going to do?
Liam: I'm going to hold my action until somebody gets up on this motherfucker, and as soon as somebody gets close and catches his attention I'm going to stab into it.
Matt: Okay. Good to know. All right, that takes the end of Vax's turn. Shale, you're up.
Chris perkins: I stride up to the dragon and smack it on the nose.
Travis: Atta girl, Shale!
Matt: Speed of 20 feet, you said?
Chris perkins: Yeah.
Matt: You can't quite get to it, unfortunately. That's about as far as you can move this turn. You can dash if you want to, but even so, you still can't quite get to it.
Chris perkins: All right then. I will use all my action to get as close to it as I can.
Matt: Okay, there we go. All right! Ending Shale's turn. Pike, you're up.
Ashley: Okay. I didn't realize I was up so quickly. All right.
Chris perkins: Although, actually, I have action surge.
Matt: You do, actually.
Chris perkins: So I will then whack him on the nose.
Matt: That's true.
Marisha: Fuck yes.
Chris perkins: All right, so that's going to be--
Taliesin: I have 13 hit points.
Sam: 13? I thought that said 93.
Taliesin: I count up.
Chris perkins: 22.
Matt: 22, that just barely hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Chris perkins: So I whack it for nine.
Matt: Nine points of damage, got it.
Liam: I'm above it. Do I get advantage for that?
Matt: Technically, because you are behind, you are flanking it, so as we'll use the flanking rules for this, you do have advantage on the attack.
Liam: Okay, so, good. 29.
Matt: 29 hits. Go ahead and roll damage with sneak attack.
Liam: 24.
Matt: 24, all righty.
Liam: And is the bonus action gone because of holding the action?
Matt: Correct, yeah, you just get the one action to hold.
Liam: Add one point to that. It was the keen dagger.
Matt: So as part of your action surge, you get two more attacks.
Liam: I didn't add the damage! Add eight to that. Not one, add eight to that. Sorry.
Sam: Add seven more. Then add three.
Chris perkins: Nope, and nope.
Sam: You have inspiration!
Chris perkins: I used it already.
Sam: Goddamn it!
Chris perkins: But thank you, it was very helpful.
Sam: You're useless!
Chris perkins: A fickle lover.
Matt: The one hit, it snorts in reaction to it. As it pulls back, you swing twice more, pretty sure the head was in the same place it was going to be, but unfortunately, meet air. Curse your sight!
Chris perkins: He had a bit of an itch on his back, that's what it was.
Matt: Caught the attention. All right, that brings us to Pike. What are you doing?
Ashley: I'm going to cast Prayer of Healing over to everybody over there. So, Keyleth, Percy, Scanlan, Shale.
Marisha: Awesome. I'm into this.
Chris perkins: I'm sort of right under the dragon. I'm actually quite far.
Ashley: Yeah, she's gone. Who's that down there? That's you, Percy, right?
Taliesin: Trinket.
Matt: What level is Prayer of Healing?
Ashley: I'm going to do it at fifth level. It's a second level, but I'm going to do it at fifth level.
Matt: Within 30 feet of you, so five, ten, 15, 20, 25, 30.
Sam: You can heal my hand.
Liam: You could also run closer and do it.
Ashley: Okay. Yeah, I'll run closer. And I'll run around, not into the pool of acid death.
Matt: That's as close as you can get right now.
Sam: Is that close?
Liam: It's close enough for Scanlan.
Matt: It's enough for Scanlan and Keyleth.
Sam: Don't do it.
Marisha: Percy needs it.
Ashley: Percy needs it?
Matt: Percy's not in range.
Ashley: Fuck. Can I go the other way around?
Sam: You can go through the acid.
Taliesin: No.
Travis: It was only 12 points of damage.
Ashley: I don't have a lot left. All right, then.
Taliesin: It's okay.
Liam: Do what you can.
Ashley: Okay. Fuck. Can I stay where I was at, then?
Matt: You can. Stay right there.
Ashley: Okay. Sorry, I'm going to not do that. I'm going to Guiding Bolt then.
Matt: Okay. You can just barely make out the position of where Umbrasyl is. You can go ahead and make the attack, but it's going to get cover bonus to the range.
Ashley: Can I peek out? Can I move out?
Matt: You can move here if you want to, and it'll help a little bit. It'll only give it a minor bonus. Go ahead and make your attack.
Ashley: What's that?
Matt: Go ahead and make your spell attack. Is this basic level Guiding Bolt?
Ashley: Basic level Guiding Bolt.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: Nope. Doesn't hit.
Matt: You try and reach around and as it's moving its wings about, you manage to strike the stone just blocking half of its form. It splashes with energy and dissipates with no effect, unfortunately.
Ashley: All right. Can I tuck back in?
Matt: Yeah.
Ashley: And I'm going to move the Spiritual Weapon with my bonus attack, or can I not do that?
Matt: You can do that, yeah. 20 feet? To there.
Ashley: Okay. That's it. That's what I can do.
Matt: Is that as far as you can move it? Spiritual Weapon can move, I believe it's 20 feet. Yeah, that's as far as you can get it.
Ashley: No, 60 feet!
Matt: The range of the spell is 60 feet, but as a bonus action, you can move it 20 feet and repeat the attack.
Ashley: Oh.
Matt: Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: I'm up? No shit. Wow. Okay. It's really far away though now, yeah?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Way more than 30 feet, right?
Matt: Yep.
Marisha: What is he? How far away is he from me?
Matt: You're not sure.
Liam: He's about 40 or 50 feet or something.
Marisha: Yeah. You're holding your action for someone to get up close.
Laura: He already did it.
Marisha: Oh, you already did it. Yeah, I guess I'm going to dash and see if I can get to him.
Matt: Okay, what's your movement as a water elemental?
Marisha: 30 feet.
Matt: 30 feet. 60, you're so close. Fucking dragon wings. There you go, you're so close. We'll say you're there, that's fine. That ends your turn, Keyleth?
Marisha: I guess so.
Matt: All right. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I would like to stride over to Bigby's Hand, and can I take out a level-- It's not level two, what do you call it? Not superior, but the middle one.
Sam: Moderate?
Travis: Can I take a moderate healing potion?
Matt: There's healing and then greater healing, so I imagine it would probably be greater healing.
Travis: Can I take the greater healing potion and chuck it to Percy?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Just a toss while standing at Bigby's Hand?
Matt: Sure. Go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw to catch the tossed potion at that distance.
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Matt: You don't even look.
Travis: And I will hold my attack.
Matt: You can keep moving if you want.
Travis: I want to stay right by Bigby's Hand. I'll hold my attack until Bigby's Hand twitches.
Matt: All right. Finishing Grog's turn, Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I will inspire Grog with a little ditty that I like to call, Who Let the Grogs Out?
All: Who? Who who who who?
Sam: Who let the Grogs out?
All: Who? Who who who who?
Matt: I'm conflicted in giving that inspiration. Take it, it's fine.
Sam: I can try a different one, if you'd like.
Matt: No, it's perfect.
Sam: And I will pick him up, with his blessing.
Travis: Please.
Sam: And throw him at the dragon.
Matt: Throw?
Sam: Or, you know, send him.
Matt: Okay, so Bigby's Hand will move with you 60 feet.
Sam: You want to go up to his head?
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: All right, yeah. He's going up top.
Matt: Okay. We'll go ahead and use some of the platforms today.
Laura: Yeah! Cut his horns off!
Liam: Don't land on me.
Ashley: Kill him!
Laura: Cut his wings off!
Ashley: Tear his head off!
Laura: Jump off those head things!
Taliesin: We have done a lot of damage to this thing.
Matt: Problem with leaving it to heal, man.
Sam: He's only got 400 hit points left.
Laura: He's looking rough.
Matt: Should be more like there, we'll say.
Sam: Release the hounds.
Travis: Can I make two reckless attacks?
Matt: You may.
Laura: Reckless?
Travis: Yes, reckless. I'll use the inspiration die. That's a ten, so that's a 29.
Matt: 29 hits.
Sam: Yeah! That helped.
Travis: 23.
Laura: Plus necrotic.
Travis: 26.
Matt: 26, got it. All right, second attack.
Travis: 24.
Matt: Both hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: 24.
Laura: Plus necrotic.
Travis: Thank you. 29. I'm not used to that.
Matt: All right. As Bigby's Hand lifts you up, you reach out and swing with the axe, one hit, a second hit, both streaking across the face, the second one actually cutting through one of the eyes. The eye bursts against the blade of bloodaxe, and you can see now the fluids and material that once were contained within are now spilling down the side of Umbrasyl's face.
Travis: Ain't you pretty?
Matt: All right, Scanlan.
Sam: What, me?
Matt: That was your bonus action.
Sam: Oh! Well, okay. I didn't know that. I will try something else then. I will send-- shit. I will send my Lightning Bolt. Can I see any part of him that's not inhabited by one of my allies?
Matt: I'd say there's an arc you could probably hit, yeah.
Sam: Right in the heart?
Matt: Sure. The heart region of the dragon.
Sam: I'm going to shoot him right through the heart with lightning.
Matt: All right. That is a dexterity 21 save, so I'm pretty sure it's halved.
Sam: Yeah, that saves.
Matt: Go ahead and roll 8d6, half damage.
Liam: Shot through the heart!
Sam: I don't know that song, I don't know what that is. I don't know that song. 24, so just 12.
Matt: 12 points of lightning damage. All right. The bolt of lightning bursts through the body. All righty. That comes to the top of the round. At the end of Scanlan's turn, it's going to use a legendary action to strike down, with the tail, onto Vax behind, as you are already in that vicinity.
Liam: Dex save?
Matt: No, this is instead going to be a 26 to hit.
Liam: Yeah, that-- oh, displacer cloak. Did you do that at disadvantage?
Matt: That is instead a 24 to hit.
Liam: That does hit. I'll use Uncanny Dodge, though.
Matt: All right. So what would be 18 damage, you take nine instead from the tail. Percy.
Taliesin: I'm going to take three shots from where I'm at. First, I'm going to use my bonus action to chug down that potion I just got. What's the superior worth?
Sam: Greater.
Matt: It's a greater, yes. 4d4 plus four.
Taliesin: 4d4 plus four. Where are my d4s at? I'll just do this four times. 13 points up, so that's a little bit better. All right, I'm going to take shot number one. I'm going to do a called shot to the face. I'm going to hit his other eye. Come on. Natural 20.
Sam: I feel like we need to retire the dice.
Taliesin: Fuck no! No, I love this die.
Marisha: You witnessed it!
Chris perkins: Yeah!
Marisha: You're a third party, it's good.
Travis: Have you and Wheaton ever touched?
Taliesin: Yeah, and I had a really bad day afterward. Let me tell you. That didn't turn out too well. That's just 16 points of damage, and I don't think I get anything bonus for this, he has to make a constitution saving throw.
Chris perkins: Eyeball saving throw.
Taliesin: Or he's going to have disadvantage on all of his attacks for the next turn.
Matt: Okay, that is nine plus 14, 23.
Taliesin: Yeah, no, he's fine.
Matt: Dragons.
Taliesin: I know. It was worth a shot. I'm going to take another shot. Fuck it, I'm just going to go for a sharpshooter, to try and do a little bit more damage to this, and I'm going to burn another grit and get advantage on it.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: So advantage sharpshooter. And that's a good thing, because that was terrible. And that was also terrible. So I miss.
Matt: All right, second shot. The first one (boom) slams and blasts near the ocular socket of Umbrasyl, shattering the bone, but not actually damaging the eye. The second shot manages to go through the wing, but unfortunately, the area was already damaged, and it's minimal in the effect on the dragon. Third strike?
Taliesin: Yeah, third strike. Here we go. Actually, you know what, I'm going to go for advantage. I'm going to go for sharpshooter advantage one more time, just for shits and giggles. Jesus. Do I call it?
Matt: It fell to the table.
Taliesin: So, yeah, I miss.
Matt: Two other shots, unfortunately, (bang).
Taliesin: I'm going to hide. I'm going to pull top right, and go up. I'm going up and I'm getting the fuck back there, as far back as I can get.
Matt: Okay. End of Percy's turn, going to use another legendary action to slam with the tail once again towards you, Vax. This is going to be--
Liam: This is in the same round, so there's no more disadvantage.
Matt: Correct. 25?
Liam: Sure. And do I blow Uncanny Dodge now?
Matt: You only get one reaction, so yeah. That's going to be 22 points of bludgeoning damage. Whack! The tail comes down and slams into you, putting you face-first into the stone. You can feel the blood run from your nose from the impact as the tail picks back up again. Vex, you're up.
Laura: I'm going to attack him a couple times. How about that? No advantage anymore, though, huh?
Marisha: No, it failed.
Laura: 18 on the first one doesn't hit.
Matt: Arrow just splinters across the dragon's hide.
Laura: That first one was way better, I should've kept it!
Matt: What was the second one?
Laura: The second one was 16.
Matt: 16, the second arrow strikes the side of Umbrasyl's face. Unfortunately, once again, the wood shaft streaks across, broken and destroyed by the impact. That ends your turn.
Laura: No, I still have a bonus action, so I'm going to hide with my bonus action.
Matt: Okay, you can do that, roll stealth. Did you add sneak attack? Oh, no, because nothing hit. Sorry.
Laura: Really?
Matt: Sorry, I was trying to be mindful.
Laura: Did you really just do that?
Matt: Trying to help. Failing miserably, but trying.
Laura: Do I still have Pass Without Trace?
Matt: No. Hunter's Mark got rid of that.
Laura: 20.
Matt: Okay, good to know. Top of the round. Magical darkness fills this entire sphere once more, encapsulating Grog, Vax, and everybody else in the area of the dragon. Vision is taken. You are all considered blind and have disadvantage on any attack rolls.
Laura: Who all?
Matt: Dragon does not seem to be--
Liam: And is it we're blinded, or we're blind where we are?
Matt: Blind where you are.
Travis: Dragon does not seem to be--?
Matt: Affected by it.
Laura: I'm not affected by that, though, because I'm outside of the bubble?
Matt: Correct, yes. Actually, let me see something.
Travis: That dumb grin.
Matt: With a five. Yep.
Marisha: Breath recharged.
Matt: Umbrasyl is going to turn up towards you, Grog. The head peeks out of the darkness for a second, right before it fills your space, and it just says, "I will finish this." You hear a familiar sound of gurgling, and then (liquid spray) out another time. This is going to go for everything in that vicinity. That's going to be Keyleth, Shale, Grog, Trinket, and Percy.
Taliesin: Did I not get cover?
Matt: You couldn't move that far, unfortunately. That's as far as you could go with your movement.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: So I need a dexterity saving throw from all of you guys.
Marisha: Fuck.
Taliesin: Blowing my last reroll. That's better.
Marisha: It's like a 23 save, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Fuck no. I mean, I rolled good, but--
Marisha: But it doesn't matter.
Travis: 18.
Chris perkins: Ten.
Marisha: Six.
Taliesin: That's 20.
Matt: And Trinket? Oh.
Sam: I guess I should do a Cutting Words, just to help a little bit.
Matt: What's the range on Cutting Words, unfortunately?
Sam: Probably 60, 30? Is he further than that? Damn it.
Matt: Unfortunately. The distance of the bard. Just to make sure. 60 feet, yeah. So that's 66 points of acid damage to Grog, Shale, halved to you, and 66 to Percy.
Laura: Trinket's unconscious.
Matt: Trinket is unconscious and dissolving.
Taliesin: I'm unconscious.
Matt: Percy is unconscious and dissolving. Grog?
Travis: I'm good.
Matt: You're good. Hit points.
Travis: I have a question. Because he attacked me, do I get my retaliation attack on him?
Matt: Yes, you do.
Marisha: Kill him, motherfucker! Kill him!
Matt: Shale, what are you at?
Chris perkins: This will depend on this roll. I've got Stone's Endurance, so I'm going to try to use my reaction to reduce the damage, and I reduce it by enough to keep me up.
Matt: Fantastic! She's got grit! She's got perseverance!
Sam: So sexy!
Chris perkins: I'm at two hit points.
Matt: All right, Grog, go for it. Not with advantage.
Travis: It's not reckless?
Matt: The reckless is for your actual attack round.
Travis: The first one was an 18.
Matt: I'm pretty sure it is. Let me double check. Just so the internet doesn't yell at me. It's going to yell at me anyway, it always yells at me.
Taliesin: I believe in you.
Travis: It's a 27, so.
Marisha: This fucker's got to be close to death, right?
Taliesin: Nope.
Matt: During this turn, not round, so yeah.
Travis: That was a 27 for the first one.
Matt: 27 was the hit? That hits. Roll damage.
Travis: 18.
Laura: Plus necrotic.
Travis: Thank you. 22.
Matt: 22. How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Travis: Did the fucking necrotic do it? (screaming)
Sam: Oh, god.
Matt: So. Held aloft by Bigby's Hand, acid sprayed in your face, two of your friends on the ground, unconscious and dissolving, in the center of the dragon's lair, Grog Strongjaw, how do you want to do this?
Travis: I rear back with the bloodaxe and I swing for the hinge right where his upper and lower jaw meet, and I'd like to cleave up under his skull into his brain.
Matt: As you lunge forward, the darkness fills you, but the feral instinct that you've grown up with is enough to know the source of that pain, the source of that acid, is also the source of victory. And as you swing wide, the jaw, still extended from the blast of acid, you push through it, as it's spraying into you, and the sheer force of your blade hits the edge of the jaw, and you push, and you hear from the back of the throat, as the acid is projected, the gurgle of horrible, shrieking pain. (groan) The stream stops as the blade goes towards the base of the skull, pushing forward and upward. You divide the actual mouth of Umbrasyl like that. The darkness (whoosh) flicks out, as you guys watch Grog descending, putting your foot now onto the front of the dragon's neck, you stand up, getting hold onto where the wound is there, still living, the one working eye flitting about wildly, you reach up and grab the edge of the nose, bring the axe up with the other hand, and slam again, and again, and as you do, the eye rolls back. The whole body begins to fall limp as it crumples backward. Vax, I need you to go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Taliesin: Oh, yeah, I am very unconscious.
Ashley: You'll be okay. I've got you.
Liam: 25.
Matt: 25. Okay, you dodge out of the way as the dragon plummets to the ground. (heavy impact) What was Trinket's maximum hit points?
Laura: It was 60.
Matt: Let me check something here.
Laura: But he was at 53 when he got hit.
Matt: The remaining damage. Yeah, you're fine.
Travis: Night saved.
Matt: Umbrasyl's body hits the ground, the two arms reach up, and the body still continues to pull itself backwards. You pull out of the way. The head lolls around, the jaw now grossly, cartoonishly open, giving out these horrible choking sounds, as the blood and bile and acid all mingle. It tries to talk. The bubbles continue coming forward before it stumbles, the arms sprawled out, its head falls limp to the side as the eye twitches and then falls still.
Ashley: I run over to Percy.
Laura: I run over to Trinket.
Marisha: I drop my water elemental form.
Ashley: I touch Percy and I cast Heal on him.
Marisha: Nice.
Laura: I cast Cure Wounds on Trinket.
Matt: As you stand there, Shale, watching the dragon fall as Grog Strongjaw, the once runt of the Herd of Storms, slams the blade over and over again in the dragon's head, a little part of you is a little jealous, and another part proud, and a little sad that this was not the time for you to lose your life in battle against a mighty dragon.
Ashley: Oh, Shale.
Liam: Can you believe it?
Sam: Shale jumps into acid.
Liam: Just walks in.
Chris perkins: Dissolves.
Matt: (sizzle) I can make that joke in two weeks! As you go and bring Trinket around for a second, using the last bit of the magic that's been afforded to you as a ranger, Trinket comes to. (bear grunt) A lot of the fur has been singed off, and spotted flesh with acid burn, but is conscious and alive, and weak, Trinket leans forward as you're cradling his head and licks the side of your face and tucks his nose into the side of your shoulder.
Laura: You were so brave in here!
Matt: (bear grunt) You go ahead and help Percy get off the ground. You come to consciousness again and you see Pike's hand touching yours as she lifts you. Suddenly, a surge of invigoration hits your body, and you find yourself feeling a lot better than you did a few moments ago.
Taliesin: Yeah, what am I at?
Ashley: 70 hit points.
Laura: That's major.
Matt: Heal, man. Clerics don't fuck around.
Ashley: I saved it just in case.
Laura: Holy shit, Grog!
Marisha: Holy shit, Grog!
Ashley: Grog! I run over to Grog and I jump up on his leg, I'm going to sit on his foot.
Travis: Monstah!
Ashley: Yeah, monstah!
Chris perkins: I will remove my dragon tooth necklace and pass it off to Grog.
Travis: No, Shale.
Chris perkins: You must take this. You've got many more battles left in you. This is going to serve you better than it ever served me. And just so you know, I don't know what the Herd would do, but if you ever go into battle again against other dragons, you know who to call. I'll be ready.
Travis: Yeah. The wielder of the magic stick of nose-whappiness. I will wear this with honor.
Chris perkins: All right. So whenever you, by the way, whenever you spend hit dice to regain hit points, you double the number of hit points restored.
Travis: With the necklace?
Chris perkins: Yes.
Travis: Oh, snap!
Ashley: You what?
Chris perkins: Double your hit points you restore.
Travis: I thought it was bullshit, but it's not! Dope!
Liam: You finally have some hit points.
Laura: You know, if you seek another dragon to kill, you might meet us in Whitestone. We're forming an army there.
Chris perkins: I just might.
Marisha: Keyleth drops elemental form and goes over to Vax and grabs him by the face.
Liam: You'd have to lean over for that.
Sam: He's a little boy!
Laura: It's like kissing a child.
Chris perkins: He's like a little voodoo doll of Vax.
Liam: I'm not pygmied or anything, I'm like a doll.
Laura: Keep it going, Keyleth. Just mug down with him.
Liam: Maybe this should wait till later?
Marisha: I tap him on the face, and say  So glad you're not dead. And I walk away.
Liam: I'm going to shake that off, and then I'm going to do a once around the entire chamber and look around for any traps I can find, especially around that pile up top, but also, I don't know that they'll be here, but see if there's anything like what we saw in Krieg's cave with the crystals in the wall. Little peeky stones.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: Can I look for those, too, since dragons?
Liam: 22.
Laura: Oh, he probably doesn't need my help. I get advantage on all dragon things.
Matt: You do.
Laura: It doesn't matter. I rolled shit, twice. 12.
Matt: 12, okay. You guys spend the better part of the next 15 or so minutes glancing around and trying to find any sign of these strange obsidian spheres that were previously in the lair of Krieg, or Brimscythe. After coasting through the crates and barrels, gold piles, the various artifacts and trinkets and things that are strewn about this back corner, no sign of anything like that.
Liam: What about weaponry in that pile of shit?
Laura: What about all the stuff in that pile of shit?
Travis: You want to rage loot?
Matt: There's a lot of things in there.
Liam: I was first on the pile. Are there any weapons in there?
Matt: There are weapons. There are two glaives, polearm glaives. There appear to be a number of pieces of ornamental armor, very beautiful, made of gold and platinum, that were either used for ceremonial reasons or just adorning some sort of popular hall.
Marisha: Keyleth walks over and pulls out her Hunk of Quall.
Sam: Yeah, Quall it up.
Marisha: I'm going to Quall it up all over top of the gold, see if anything lights up with my Wi-Fi detector. Since that's what I feel like it is.
Matt: Strangely enough, no. Nothing seems to glow in the vicinity of the Hunk of Quall.
Liam: And no other blades?
Matt: There are two glaives. Pulling the list up here. Going through the whole hoard, because it is 11:20, we may pick up the actual looting element at the beginning of next session. We'll be here for a while if you want to do that.
Laura: I like the sound of that.
Marisha: We have to go back and get Fassbender.
Laura: Yeah, we're totally going to go back. We're going to return a lot of this gold to Whiterun. Westruun. All the towns.
Sam: Well, all the gold that we can definitely prove came from Westruun, we'll bring back.
Laura: I agree.
Sam: With Westruun markings.
Laura: All the other gold that's just sitting around, I mean, we should probably just take to help the battles.
Travis: Plus it would be nice to give Shale some gold to take back to the Herd.
Sam: Who?
Travis: Shale.
Sam: The Herd? I thought the Herd's-- Okay.
Travis: There was a great remnant. The Herd will live again, and with Shale's wisdom.
Marisha: There were still a few members of the Herd still alive. A good half dozen.
Travis: Zanror's baby mama is still preggo.
Marisha: Yeah, exactly.
Liam: It's also very lean times in Westruun. Most of this gold should go back to Westruun.
Laura: Most of it.
Marisha: Did we contribute any of our own gold into this pile?
Liam: That's back in Westruun.
Chris perkins: I can return with the remnants of the Herd and gather up whatever you don't take.
Laura: And bring it back to Westruun.
Sam: We'll divvy it up later.
Marisha: Let's divvy it up.
Liam: If we take most of the gold that came from Westruun, we're a big pack of assholes.
Laura: I said we weren't going to! We're going to take it back to Westruun.
Sam: You're a tiny pack of assholes right now.
Marisha: Is he still tiny? He's still tiny.
Laura: Three hours.
Liam: Probably another two hours.
Laura: It's only been an hour? No.
Matt: You have, probably another 20, 30 minutes or so before it fades.
Marisha: We need Fassbender.
Travis: Keyleth, you're going to butcher this dragon, right?
Marisha: Yes. 100 percent. I start going to town on it.
Laura: Because this is going to be worth a lot of fucking money.
Marisha: Yeah. Percy, do you have any extra vials? Empty vials for blood?
Laura: We should get some of the blood and put it in the Bag of Colding.
Marisha: Hey, Percy! So glad you're alive and not burning in acid. Do you have any extra vials?
Taliesin: Do I?
Matt: Checking in your various pieces of equipment you have on you, as opposed to what you have stored elsewhere, you had a few vials. They are a little jangly when you reach for them, and you realize they've been crushed.
Taliesin: We have some empty potion bottles.
Liam: I hand mine over from the one I gave Vex.
Taliesin: The one I used as well.
Matt: Go ahead and make a nature check.
Marisha: I'll take that 16 for a 27. Nature check, yeah? 27.
Matt: All right. So as you guys are gathering the elements of this dragon's hoard, gathering the equipment, the art pieces, the relics, all things that were part of this-- and it is, especially since you know, as far as dragon hoards go, especially for an ancient dragon, it isn't huge. And with the recent moving in, you get the idea that this dragon's true hoard probably exists elsewhere. This was either a temporary lair, or was intended to be the new lair, and the process of transitioning hadn't quite begun. Most of the gold here seems to have been what was given to Umbrasyl by the Herd once they had taken over Westruun.
Liam: Maybe he has to give it to Thordak in a dragon pyramid scheme.
Laura: We don't find any of those glyphs like there were in--
Taliesin: We already looked for those.
Laura: Not the circles, I meant the transportation glyph that we beamed into his--
Matt: That you saw in Krieg's lair? No. You do know, from having one made by Allura within your keep before, that they take quite some time to ingrain. Dragon's only really had over a week or so. So, gathering up the materials, the remnants of that hoard, you guys descend down the mountain if you wish, or is there anything else you wish to accomplish within the actual lair?
Marisha: I want to harvest some scales, some blood, and some teeth.
Matt: Right, based on the roll you made. So we have two empty vials that you managed to acquire.
Marisha: Plus he had three in his Bag of Holding.
Liam: Can I help her out?
Matt: Yeah. It's difficult because, with the nature of Umbrasyl's death, as well as being a creature that is naturally caustic and acidic in a large portion of its body, there was a mixing of a lot of the blood that has caused it to become impure while vialing it, so you get three vials of the blood that are still pure and viable. Everything else seems to dissolve through the glass upon contact.
Laura: I can put it in the Bag of Colding, and then it'll keep it.
Taliesin: I can assist with any of the cutting, because I've got the fuck-all sword.
Marisha: I hand the three vials of blood to Vex to put in the Bag of Colding.
Matt: Many dragon's teeth were sundered in the ravaging of Umbrasyl at Grog's furious storm of axe blade strikes. However, you do manage to harvest from the body, unscathed, 14 ancient black dragon teeth.
Marisha: We should make some sweet necklaces. Any scales?
Matt: Quite a lot of scales here, yes. It's going to take you a long time to harvest what you can off this body. A lot of the areas have been damaged from the various wounds and such. How much time do you want to spend to harvest scales?
Liam: Do you think we should just camp here for the night?
Taliesin: We could just camp here for the night.
Laura: As long as the other dragons don't realize that we've just done this. Would I know if they would know?
Matt: You have no idea.
Laura: I don't know if it's actually safe to just hang out in this dragon's lair.
Taliesin: You know what we can do, is we can make the magic mansion in that cave off to the side, in the very back of it.
Laura: That's a wonderful idea.
Ashley: And that magic trap, we didn't set it off.
Taliesin: We haven't sprung the magic trap, either, so that's just none the wiser.
Sam: Okay.
Marisha: All right. I'll spend as much time then, I'll stay up as long as I can throughout the night. If I hear any disturbances I'll come back to the mansion.
Taliesin: I'll help.
Chris perkins: Once we get to the mansion, Shale will bid the group farewell and head down to Westruun to let the rest of the Herd know what's happened, about the great triumph of the bearded king.
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: As you come down and--
Chris perkins: I'm killed by an owlbear.
Matt: Ravaged and eaten horribly in the Bramblewood, never to be seen again!
Chris perkins: Nobody hears the tale of the bearded king!
Travis: Son of a bitch!
Taliesin: Forever, the Herd will just say, Grog, that asshole.
Marisha: Such a dick.
Matt: No, you come down and as you speak with the remnants of the Herd of Storms, many of which, a number of them did survive the battle, though scarred horribly, and many did lose their life in the battle with Umbrasyl. Zanror, Worra, recovering all right. However, the number's now thinned down to a simple 12 members of the Herd. As you speak with Zanror, he looks to you and says, "Shale. You live."
Chris perkins: Obviously.
Matt: "Have you word of the mountain? The dragon?"
Chris perkins: I toss one of its teeth at him. He will trouble us no more. He is a bygone.
Matt: "Good. Good." He takes the tooth and gives it to Worra. "Well."
Chris perkins: It's the work of those adventurers.
Matt: "Vox Machina, they call themselves."
Chris perkins: They are truly great.
Matt: "Good. We need greatness in this world. We--"
Chris perkins: Don't be so glum, you old fool.
Matt: He grins to himself.
Chris perkins: This is a day of glory. A great battle has been won.
Matt: "It is. But there's been a lot of cost in it, too."
Chris perkins: There's always cost. We will all die, it just depends on how. We died fighting a dragon, and we lived fighting a dragon. What more do you want? That's the smile I want to see.
Matt: "I'm glad you're back, Shale. Your wisdom stays strong."
Chris perkins: Well, now that Kevdak's out of the way, maybe people will listen to what I have to say for a change.
Matt: "We've been talking here. I think the Herd of Storms died in battle with the dragon. There's not many of us left."
Chris perkins: But there are other herds.
Matt: "There are. And while we lost the Rivermaw, I think maybe it's time we went and joined them."
Chris perkins: I like that idea.
Matt: "They're damper lands. Better for raising children. Take a break from all this warring and go back to a simple life. Will you come with us, Shale?"
Chris perkins: Of course.
Matt: "Good. We'll set out tomorrow. At dawn, we plan."
Sam: He's learned!
Matt: You guys set up for the evening, resting your sore, bruised bodies, smelling the ruin of the black dragon as you prepare for an evening's rest, well-earned. We will close this evening's session. Well fought, guys!
Travis: Holy shit.
Marisha: We didn't die!
Liam: Scanlan, is there a hot springs in this mansion?
Sam: There can be whatever you want.
Liam: We need to bathe, soak. We need a good soak to get the stink off.
Matt: It's amazing. You imagine why he didn't mention it before, but Scanlan does indeed have a hot spring in his magnificent mansion.
Travis: It's amazing!
Matt: No, it's magnificent. Guys, a big thank you and round of applause for Chris Perkins!
Chris perkins: Thanks for having me! It's a great honor to be here. Thank you.
Matt: All right, well. We'll pick this back up again next week on Thursday to see what the next adventure holds for Vox Machina now that one of the four Conclave remaining have fallen! I can tell you with the death of one dragon, I doubt the others, upon hearing of it, will be anywhere near as careless as Umbrasyl was. But there are more Vestiges to find, more allies to acquire. Who knows what other dangers lie in the realms of Tal'Dorei and beyond, outside of the Conclave's threat? We shall see in the weeks to come. Guys, thank you so much for staying up with us tonight. Rest well, and is it Thursday yet? See you guys next week. [end of captions]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Sound: (cheering)
Kevin: All right! (cheers) Welcome! Is my mic on? It's on, whoa, yeah, welcome to the very first inaugural premiere edition of Critical Role live! Guys, my name's Kevin. I am the social media director for Geek and Sundry-- yes, thank you very much, I am indeed a very cool person. I've been with Geek and Sundry for about eight months now, it was really intimidating at first because I kept mixing up Vax and Vex. Yeah, I still mix up Vax and Vex. But okay, what I was going to say was that Critical Role fans are the warmest, most welcoming fans. (cheering)
Kevin: Yeah! Except for that guy. Right? But no, I love you guys, give yourselves a big hand, thank you so much. (cheering)
Kevin: I want you guys to know, this is our first time doing this, this is as I said the first inaugural premiere, they're all synonyms, right? So if you're like me you're extremely excited. But please remember that all the people at home are still watching, say hi to the people at home, hi people at home.
Audience: Hi!
Kevin: Right? So please do me a favor, put your phones on silent, all right? The house lights are going to be kind of dim, so you can use your phones, you can tweet, you can do social media posts, whatever you want, if there's a Cubone somewhere please let me know, tweet at me. I need like ten Cubones. So yeah, just put everything on silent and be silent about it. You can tweet about the show, please use the hashtag #CriticalRoleLive, surprisingly enough. Do me another favor, don't do the concert pic thing where you put your phone up and record for ten minutes at a time, because there are people behind you, as you may or may not know, so I'd really appreciate that. The other thing is, this not a Rocky Horror thing, so don't shout out like, I would like to rage. Don't do that stuff, don't "how do you want to do this?" Don't do that stuff. Be respectful of the people on stage. Think of this as a funny play. You can laugh, you can woo, but maybe don't shout out suggestions. Especially the suggestions that I know a lot of you have in your heads, right? Wait, I have one other thing. There's a merch thing. The merch table's going to be open after the show, is that right? Yes. After the show, the merch table's going to be open, so if you didn't get a chance to get merch, you're going to get another chance to get merch, so don't worry about that. Is there something else? VIPs will get your posters after, so if you're a VIP, you'll get a poster, just come-- where? Upstairs. Okay. Don't worry. Right. Thank you. Let's hear it for Claudia once again, guys. (cheering)
Kevin: All right, so, do you guys want to bring them out? (cheering)
Kevin: All right. Let's start with the master of dick-lightning and shit-scrying, playing Scanlan Shorthalt, Mr. Sam Riegel! (cheering)
Kevin: All right!
Sam: Thanks! You get a car! You get a car! You get a car!
Kevin: Guys, get your tickets to the gun show, because the gun show's coming to town. Playing Percival Fredrickstein von Mussel Klossowski de Rolo III of Whitestone. Yeah, right, right. Taliesin, let's bring him out, Taliesin Jaffe! (cheering)
Kevin: Guys, put your hands together, put your antlers on your head, for Keyleth. Marisha Ray! (cheering)
Kevin: Is she here? She's so stealthy, I don't understand.
Marisha: I'm an independent woman, all right?
Taliesin: Never mind, I give up.
Kevin: All right, let's bring out the man I have a massive man-crush on--
Sam: I'm already here!
Kevin: Liam O'Brien as Vax'ildan! (cheering)
Liam: What the hell!
Kevin: This next woman was stuffing exotic animals into tiny balls before it was cool. Laura Bailey as Vex'ahlia! (cheering)
Kevin: She's got the hipster glasses to prove it.
Laura: Yeah, that's right. It's not for seeing at all, I don't...
Kevin: And the next guy, the next guy, get out your tubs of mayo for Mr. Travis Willingham as Grog freaking Strongjaw! (cheering and chanting)
Kevin: All right, let's, let's bring it down. Guys, there are certain names that people whisper with reverence. Because those names belong to the breakthrough artists in their field. Jim Henson, Bob Dylan, Madame Curie. (laughter)
Kevin: Tonight we have one of those names with us. You may know him. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Matt Mercer. (cheering)
Matt: Oh boy. That's a lot, that's a lot of people.
Laura: Oh my gosh.
Matt: All righty, let me shore up my positioning here on the camera for you fine folks and open my energy drink because that's what makes this show happen.
Travis: Caffeine and drugs.
Matt: (shushing noises) Anyway, welcome everybody to our first Critical Role live, all of you folks there on the internet and everyone here in person in Los Angeles, California. (cheering)
Matt: Welcome to Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors get together, roll dice, and play Dungeons and Dragons. Tonight we have a fantastic pick-up of last week's story where the adventuring party Vox Machina found themselves wandering through the Feywild. However, before that happens, let us get to our fantastic sponsor for the evening. Once again, this episode is brought to you by Loot Crate, they've been awesome. So thank you guys so much. (cheering)
Matt: The current Loot Crate theme for July is Futuristic, includes a lot of awesome Rick and Morty, Futurama, Mega Man, Valiant Comic stuff, Star Trek, that fun element there. We've got music playing, it's on. Oh man, I feel like things are happening.
Sam: Music's working?
Laura: Music works, you guys, music works.
Matt: There we go. Perfect. Tech stuff is coming together. Yeah, so Futuristic is their crate theme this month. We also have the anime Loot Crate is themed Squadron. Has a bunch of stuff from Gundam, Gate, Arpeggio of Blue Steel, Antimagic Academy, a lot of exclusive stuff, of course you guys can go ahead and get $3 off a subscription by going to lootcrate.com/criticalrole and putting in "criticalrole," one word, in your nice little Loot Crate subscription bonus.
Travis: I chew on Goku's head a lot. I'm a fixated-- it's cool.
Matt: And the paint is actually healthy to eat, apparently. That's not at all the reason why Grog's intelligence is that low. So, if you haven't checked it out yet, check out Loot Crate, thank you guys so much for sponsoring our show, we love you. Great. So. Next up we have-- we recently had a t-shirt contest, didn't we? Laura, if you want to take that away for me.
Laura: Oh, this? Okay, so I get to announce who the official winner is?
Matt: You do, actually, yeah.
Laura: Oh my gosh, this is so exciting. Okay. So the official winner of the first Critter contest is... Against the Chroma Conclave, designed by Antmageddon! (cheering)
Laura: So! As of right now, that shirt is available in the Geek and Sundry store for preorder. It's going to be there for I think two weeks? And it's available in sizes small through 3XL, which we're really excited about. And yeah, so that's that, so.
Travis: Go get one!
Laura: Go you guys for voting on that, you rock, even with shenanigans.
Matt: There were so many amazing contenders for that contest that the community puts out, so we--
Marisha: And we got hacked, which means we made it.
Matt: Yay! Next announcement I have, when I arrived here I discovered that there was an actual PokeGym as a part of this mall, I'd like to ask Team Valor to go ahead and make sure that shit leaves red. (cheering and booing)
Travis: What a response!
Laura: That was a mixed reaction.
Matt: Look, the whole San Fernando Valley's blue, okay, give me something! All right, anyway. Yeah, it's become a thing. And we have another cool announcement. Travis, do you want to take it away on that one?
Travis: Yes we do, the response to this live event was so amazing that we are super stoked to announce that we are going to also be doing Critical Role live in Indianapolis during GenCon on August 6, Saturday night. Tickets will go on sale- I think they're on sale now.
Laura: Right now.
Travis: Right now, so if you want to like, silently on your phone or just ignore it because it's a much bigger venue, so tickets should be available, but we're all going to be in Indianapolis on Saturday night and GenCon to roll some dice with you bitches live. (cheering)
Matt: Hell yeah. So if this wasn't nerve-wracking enough for me, we have another one in a couple of weeks.
Travis: Pressure's on, dude, pressure's on!
Matt: But I'm super stoked, it's going to be my first time at GenCon, I've been wanting to go for many years and this is a nice way to go, I guess. So. Check it out. Hopefully we'll see you guys there. That brings us to the end of our announcements and will bring us down--
Laura: Wait. Before we go into not-regular announcements, should we make sure that people know that we're not having an episode next week because of Comic-Con?
Matt: That's true, actually, yeah.
Sam: Way to bring down the room.
Laura: I'm sorry, guys.
Matt: Because all the company, everyone's going to be at Comic-Con doing panels and scheduling and stuff, there will be no episode next week, but I promise that we'll make the episode the week after that extra cool. (cheering)
Matt: I hope. So yeah, let's go ahead and dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Sam: We're on! (cheering)
Matt: All right, all right, we've got to do a story here! It's appreciated, but--
Sam: We should probably just finish.
Matt: All right, so, bringing us in now, back to tonight's episode of Critical Role. Guys, pay attention.
Liam: Illithid syphilis.
Matt: The camera's already on.
Liam: Yeah. Okay.
Matt: So. Our intrepid band of adventurers, Vox Machina, found themselves recently traversing the Feywild in search of another Vestige of Divergence. In doing so, they managed to find an old friend in the nymph Nahla, acquired some information, trading a book, and found their way towards the ever-shifting grasses northward in search of where the Divergence, the object of the Divergence lies. In doing so, they found a new ally, a new friend. A little satyr by the name of, where is it here--
All: Garmelie.
Matt: Garmelie, thank you. Now Garmelie, who had made some really interesting sketches of the party upon being caught was then dragged into Scanlan's magnificent mansion, at which Pike asked him to make a fantastic mural for the interior of that place, which I think still resides there to this day. And on the internet, as we've discovered. Upon traveling further north, hopefully to find their final destination in the form of the Shademirk Bog, where the Fenthras bow seemingly exists, you instead came upon Syngorn, the city from the youthful days of Vex and Vax. Upon speaking to the head-- pardon me; you see, all the nerves gets the belching out. It works out well. Upon encountering Watcher Iova watching the gate, recognizing the twins, let them within the actual city of Syngorn. And that is where we left off. So, as you guys walk through the beautiful verdant city, tall seemingly endless trees around you, many buildings naturally formed and built from smoothly carved stone, various ancient sigils carved throughout the entire cityscape, the very heavy-armored Verdant Guard gathered in places, and a general air of intensity and building military might within the city of Syngorn, you have your invisible companion Garmelie, who at some point in the near future agreed to tell you what it is he wishes you to steal for him as part of the deal that was made by the twins. So. What would you like to do?
Liam: I feel like I should be very stern right now, but I can't stop smiling.
Travis: You're gloomy. Lock it up, here we go.
Laura: I feel like the first thing we need to do is go see our father.
Liam: Right off the bat?
Laura: He's the one that's going to give us access to the rest of the city.
Liam: All right. Is Iova still here, or has she trundled off?
Matt: She's walked off. She literally let you guys in the city and went, do what you've got to do, and then turned away and the rest of the guards--
Laura: Oh seriously, so like... no, no the guard is following us.
Liam: And we remember where we're going, right, because it's all the same as it was.
Matt: The city is the same as it was.
Liam: Well, I imagine we'd go to his home. Our home. His home.
Laura: What time is it? I mean, we don't know what time it is.
Taliesin: It's dusk.
Laura: Thank you, Percy.
Sam: But we just woke up.
Laura: All right. Okay.
Liam: Look at all those elves.
Laura: So many elves.
Travis: Is the little satyr-- is he holding onto my skirts, basically?
Matt: You actually don't feel a general presence, and then as you move you feel a slight tug at your belt.
Travis: Right, so can I like, how far away is that guard that's on our tail?
Matt: About 15, 20 feet back.
Travis: Oh yeah. Can I like super slyly whisper, okay, so at any point are you going to tell us what it is you want us to fucking steal?
Matt: You hear a whispered voice that curls up by your ear, strangely given the fact that he's so small, so the voice is being thrown right into the side of your eardrum, goes, "Just be quiet! Find a place in which we can speak privately, and then I will be happy to tell you. Shh! Stop talking to the air; it upsets them."
Travis: It's really quite normal for me.
Laura: Hey, Grog. You should really watch that gas of yours with him back there.
Travis: Oh, you're so right. Hey, pull my finger. (fart sound)
Matt: (coughs)
Travis: Yeah. That's the family reserve. Oh, he said we're supposed to find somewhere quiet to talk.
Liam: Maybe we should do that first, actually.
Laura: We have guards fucking following us. We have to go find our father.
Taliesin: We also don't know where we're sleeping tonight, or whether or not it's even permissible. We should probably have a conversation with whoever's in charge. Is your father in charge?
Liam: No.
Laura: Ish.
Taliesin: Ish.
Liam: He's a bureaucrat.
Taliesin: Excellent. (laughter)
Liam: All right, let's go see Dad, then.
Marisha: (whispers) Grog.
Travis: What?
Marisha: (whispers) Your pants, they're sagging a little bit, why?
Travis: What?
Marisha: (whispers) They're sagging.
Travis: Oh, it's like the new rage amongst the kids. It gives me super street cred.
Marisha: Where's Garmelie?
Laura: Keyleth, shut up about Garmelie!
Travis: Yeah, ix-nay on the Garmelie-- I think I'm doing Pig Latin wrong. Yeah.
Liam: It's this way. And I start walking off towards Dad's house.
Taliesin: I'm going to follow the twins.
Sam: Sounds good.
Marisha: I look regal and as we pass elves I say, good day.
Matt: The few that look in your direction, Keyleth, take a moment to nod, look you over and then continue walking, seemingly perturbed by the sudden interaction and the immediate realization that you're not of full blood.
Laura: Yeah, sorry Keyleth, your ears aren't large enough.
Marisha: That's not normally what people tell me.
Sam: It's not the size of your ears...
Marisha: That's right.
Matt: So. As you guys continue following Vax'ildan towards the abode of their father, you keep an eye out towards the rest of Syngorn proper. You see the further into the city you go, interspersed with a few Emon guards, you see a handful of individuals that are human, and they're dressed in the actual attire of the guards of Emon, and they're intermingling right now with the Verdant Guard, the military might within Syngorn.
Marisha: What were the name of the guards in Emon? Did they have a name?
Matt: The Emon guard.
Marisha: Yeah, totally.
Matt: There is a name, and it's somewhere in my notes but we're good.
Taliesin: From this perspective, I can see your panic folder. It's so exciting. That's where the magic happens.
Marisha: Yeah, that's true, we never really see that!
Taliesin: This is exciting for us. (laughter)
Matt: So. You guys continue making your way towards the abode. After traversing on the outskirts of what would be the tangleward side of the city, the eastern side, you travel in through an area of buildings that are very beautifully crafted, many of which seem to have stemmed from some sort of a tree growth, but upon closer look you can see that it's actually carved stone to resemble a tree. And then it eventually rises up into a somewhat spherical building, and there are many that build off of that to create this kind of neighborhood of various elven abodes within Syngorn.
Liam: Fucking hate this place.
Laura: Me, too. It's hideous.
Marisha: This is gorgeous. Look at the craftsmanship. It's incredible.
Sam: Good day.
Marisha: Good day.
Matt: You make your way towards the end of this particular-- (laughter)
Matt: The guards still keeping track behind you. You find your way to the end of the main road, and it splits into two smaller avenues. You know to take the left that leads deeper into the more political family houses of Syngorn. While your family is not a political house per se, your father, as an ambassador to Emon, was given a home in this location. It is your old home, although it appears to have been even further renovated and is much nicer than you remember, but the door is closed and the dusk sun leads you to pause as you look upon the outside of this abode you have not seen in many, many years.
Sam: Do you want me to burn it down?
Laura: Yes.
Travis: No, just seriously, you seem super gloomy. Are we getting in a fight?
Laura: No. No fights.
Matt: The guards now step up and flank a little bit, keeping a close eye as you've now approached and effectively knocked on the handle of a relatively middle-to-high-ranking individual within Syngorean society. Eventually the door opens and you see a woman standing there: bright blonde hair, braided and tied up in the back. She's wearing more of a work-gown for the day. You recognize her as Devana, the new wife of Syldor, the one that you had once met before in Emon when you guys came upon your father last time. As the door opens up, she looks out for a second, taking in the whole group that has gathered on the outside of their home and goes, "My god. Vax'ildan, Vex'ahlia, we weren't expecting you!"
Laura: No. I can't imagine you were. Is he here?
Matt: "He is."
Laura: What time is it?
Matt: She glances out, looks up. "That's always a good question. The longer we stay in these realms, the more confused my daughter becomes."
Liam: How long has that been?
Matt: "Weeks now, I assume. Best that our timepieces can keep."
Laura: Is Velora around?
Matt: "She is, would you like to see her?"
Laura: Of course.
Matt: "Come in. Is it just you two?"
Laura: No.
Liam: No.
Laura: It's everyone.
Travis: Hi.
Laura: And Trinket, you remember Trinket.
Matt: (bear noises) Nudges your arm to the side and comes forward and sniffs out to Devana. She shrinks back a little bit and reaches her hand out to the nose and taps the edge of Trinket's face, and Trinket licks her fingers.
Marisha: Good day.
Sam: Good day.
Marisha: Good day. They respond better if you say "good day" and if you have your head up.
Travis: If we say "bidet?"
Marisha: Bidet, yes. Good day.
Travis: Bidet.
Taliesin: So close. So very close.
Matt: The two guards closest to you, within their helmets their eyes narrow, they look at each other and shake their heads.
Travis: Oh, bidet.
Liam: Your accent is perfect. Don't change a thing.
Matt: Devana goes, "Very well. If you would all proceed to be quiet if you could, Syldor is working. And you may stay outside," she says to the guards. And they both, "We were given orders, milady, to--" "I understand that. But this is already a lot of people in our home. Stay close within earshot, it'll be fine. I trust them." The guards, (sighs)
Laura: I wink at them as I walk inside.
Matt: No reaction whatsoever. You guys make your way into the home and are immediately caught with a very strong smell of cedar. It's a very pleasant-smelling home, and the hearth is warm. It's everything you wanted your home to be, and it immediately hits you to walk in here and see this kind of life away from a life, seeing elements of it that remind you of your childhood, things about it that flag memories to your head of good times and bad, in just a few mere moments. And at that same time, there's a sadness because so much of it has changed, so much of it seems better than the memory. And for a moment there, you feel a little tinge of wondering how different it might've been. At which point that thought process is broken as Devana steps in and goes, "Would anyone like tea, perhaps?"
Sam: Sure, yes, do you have an oolong?
Marisha: Maybe a chamomile, it would be great.
Matt: "Something like that, yes. It's been a little scarce in the Feywilds. More difficult to farm herbs here than you'd think."
Marisha: Oh, here. I pull out some herbs that I brought from my garden. Some glisfoil and other things.
Matt: "Thank you. Appreciate that."
Marisha: They won't scream at you when you pick them. Good. It's good.
Matt: "Thank you. What was your name again?"
Marisha: Oh, I'm Keyleth of the Ashari.
Matt: "A pleasure to meet you again--"
Marisha: Good day.
Matt: "That's, that's really not necessary in my home. You, sir, your name?"
Taliesin: Whatever's available would be just fine.
Sam: I think she means your name.
Marisha: I think she means your name.
Matt: "That's a curious title."
Marisha: But you can call him whatever's available, as well.
Matt: "Very well, coffee table. What's your name?" (laughter)
Liam: It's easier than the actual name.
Taliesin: For you, it is just Percival, and I am another visiting royal from man's world.
Matt: "All right. You, sir?"
Sam: I am called the Kingslayer, Chuck Norris, Burt Reynolds. I have many names. You see, when you've traveled a road as long as I have--
Matt: "Black tea, got it. And you, sir, the large one?"
Travis: Oh, yeah. Bidet. The name is Grog.
Matt: "Very well. I'll return with Syldor once he knows you're here. It may be a while if you don't mind waiting, but the tea will come out posthaste."
Laura: And Velora? Where's she?
Matt: "Let me get her for you, she'll be very like to see both of you, she asks from time to time." She brushes a little lock of hair that's fallen in front of her face behind her ear, and smiles and darts off towards the kitchen. A few moments pass with you guys sitting in awkward silence, looking about the space in the vicinity. Looks to the twins. Eventually Devana comes out and sets tea for all of you across the central table in this meeting area, and behind her you see, clutching the edge of the skirt, you see this tiny, long brown hair that is braided, but the braid's coming undone, tomboyish looking elven girl that peeks around the side of her dress and hides again behind the back. [high-pitched noise]
Matt: Welcome back, sorry about that. (cheering)
Sam: What a battle!
Matt: The technical aspects. We're working through it, but we got through it, thank you for your patience. So the last few minutes, we're not quite sure how much you guys may have missed, but the party wiped. We're rolling up new characters. No, for the Monday episode we'll go ahead and make sure to splice in anything that may have been missed for the past minute. But the party had come to the home of Syldor, the father of Vax and Vex. They had a brief discussion with Devana, his new wife. They were given tea after introductions and then briefly discussed the merits of being a warrior with their half-sister Velora Vessar, and upon discussing apparently a war of some kind, Syldor made his way into the room, and you look and you see the long dark hair of Syldor, his pale complexion, his stern face, staring back at you all from within the doorway as he closes it behind him and steps into the room. You see Devana sits up now and comes over to him and says, "My dear, would you like us to leave you alone?" He goes, "Don't worry, it will be fine. Have a seat. Besides, we're all family. Well, some of us, at least." And he looks over to Grog.
Travis: Bidet. (laughter)
Matt: "Good day, indeed." He comes up and sits, and he's wearing long, dark brown robes with golden and red embroidery on the side, but it's very casual home wear, and he sits down, pulling up a chair across from you guys in this area, and takes one of the cups of tea and sips it. And you can see there's an intensity to his face. He's here, and he looks like he's partially inconvenienced by your presence like he always did, but he also looks like he hasn't slept well, there's some dark circles under his eyes and he seems a little distracted for such a climactic re-meeting.
Laura: Surprise!
Matt: "Surprise, indeed. So. It's good to see you both. Glad you're in good health. You've come quite a ways to come speak with me, being as we currently reside within the Feywild."
Liam: It's a little bit further than we thought we'd have to travel, why... the presence around the city we're seeing? We understand why you fled, but what's going on?
Matt: "Look. We had the entire Fort Daxio army down here and we were to give aid to push into the nearby mountain range where apparently there was an influx of lizardfolk, had been a continuous problem, and apparently a break had been seen somewhere. However, we had sent most of our forces into the mountain range and then received word that three great drakes were making their way straight toward Syngorn after the destruction of Emon. Knowing that, we had no recourse but to flee and prepare when it was time. Had we stood our ground, we would be the same burning crater that your fair city is now."
Laura: So you intend to go back? You're amassing this army to go back and join the fight.
Matt: "That is exactly what we're doing. The remnants of the Emon army we currently have here in the city, we've been building armor and weapons to make sure the most sure-footed and strong-of-arm men and women of our fair city can make it to that battlefield and tear that beast down."
Laura: That's wonderful news.
Matt: "Good. Why are you here?"
Taliesin: We are here on a very similar range of business, to be honest.
Matt: "And you are?"
Taliesin: Ah, yes. Percival Fredrickstein von Mussel Klossowski de Rolo III of the royal house of Whitestone, representative of man's world, here on very important business dealing with dragons. We are looking for some objects: a few things that may help us in our fight against these dragons that have attacked us. We've already made headway against them, and we've already made headway on our quest to destroy them. Any help that your wonderful city could provide would be most agreeable.
Matt: "Well. We currently have all of our resources engaged in our plans of attack. There is not much we could offer you other than, if you wish to stay here within the city, we could provide a place to sleep, food, and when the time is right you may join our ranks into the fray."
Liam: We've come to the Feywild for something specific.
Marisha: We're trying to head to the Shademirk Bog.
Matt: "Why on earth would you be heading to the Shademirk?"
Marisha: We're looking for the bow of Fenthras. It supposedly lives inside of a cancerous tree.
Matt: "Right. Well. Good luck with that."
Laura: Do you think it's possible?
Matt: "I think it's a fool's errand to chase a fleeting rumor into a location that is known to devour and destroy anyone who steps within its bounds. But by all means, you've always been ones seeking the darkness."
Liam: He and I are wearing fleeting rumors. That one's got one hidden up his butt. (laughter)
Matt: You hear Velora chuckle. Devana's like, "Shh! Quiet!"
Laura: I want to pull Velora over and sit her in my lap.
Matt: She (raspberry noise) at her mom as you pick her up there. You can see Devana smiles as she does so.
Liam: Syldor, we have killed two of these dragons already. Nothing could please me more to hear that you are amassing forces here to go back; that is possibly the greatest thing I've ever heard you say to me.
Laura: I want to insight check him and see if he's really saying--
Travis: Yeah, do that shit!
Matt: Roll an insight check.
Liam: Him or me?
Laura: 26 on him!
Matt: All right. I'd whisper, but the microphone makes it useless. It's fine. He appears tired, he appears like a lot of his intention and time has been put towards something important--
Laura: Being a giant dick?
Matt: Possibly. But he doesn't appear to be lying or fudging the truth at all, he's just tired. He says, "Look. There are a lot of pieces at work here. If you have your own path, by all means. And while I have heard of some of your exploits, and I am quite impressed, I hate to be blunt, but it's difficult and strange to mingle family new and old. Your presence here brings up difficult memories for me."
Laura: Oh, you poor man.
Liam: Don't worry. We're not here to look for family. That would entail some amount of investment on either our side or yours. There is clearly none. We are here to do business. Do you know where the bog is?
Matt: "Yes. It's duskward of here."
Sam: Duskward.
Travis: Fucking shit.
Liam: Well, some people go this way, and some people go that way, and some people go both ways.
Marisha: It's like being on a ship forever.
Matt: "I have not traversed this land extensively. I've been here working along with the heads of the city to make sure we are ready for this attack."
Laura: When do you plan to attack?
Matt: "A few weeks."
Laura: You're joining other armies. You don't plan to fight Thordak on your own?
Matt: "Well. There is an attempt to join up with the remnants of the Fort Daxio force. They have not gone to Emon themselves and they currently reside camped out near where Syngorn usually is. We have a few groups that are set on the other side of the veil in the prime realm and they are keeping an eye out for this. A few scouting parties are in Emon as we speak, trying to gather intel on Thordak himself. Once we have that information and we can formulate what to expect, then we can attack."
Marisha: So you're trying to go after Thordak himself. That's your first target, Thordak?
Matt: "He's currently the largest threat to our safety, our home, and our return. Don't think this is the first time a red dragon of that size has been felled. There have been ancient ages of various deaths from his people. It's not impossible, but we need to be ready."
Travis: Just a heads-up, pro tip  dragons can fly. (laughter)
Matt: "And I take it you're their leader."
Travis: Of the dragons? (laughter)
Matt: He very slowly sighs while grabbing his tea.
Travis: I've clearly lost your father. It's all right.
Laura: His intelligence is very low, Grog.
Taliesin: In the interest of dealing with Thordak, we are going to need access to libraries, any of your people who may know something about this bog, and accommodations befitting those of us who are titled.
Sam: As well as access to certain parts of the city. We need some items to acquire within the city before we set out.
Marisha: Also, it would be nice to find shelter for those of us who are not titled.
Sam: And I had asked for an oolong tea. (laughter)
Sam: This is more of an assam, I would say? A black tea.
Taliesin: This is technically what you do, though, isn't it?
Matt: Devana says, "I'm terribly sorry, I didn't mean that--"
Marisha: No, not you.
Matt: Syldor crosses his fingers together and, "I can give you a letter that will grant you entry to a few of our general storehouses. However, most of you are outsiders and others have been ostracized in their own right."
Taliesin: But you will respect titled entry. Those of us who are court can converse with court.
Matt: "Your title, your court, is unfamiliar with me. I doubt it will hold sway within this town, this city, this entire realm. But you speak of great importance, are you the leader of this troop, he who brings up words of courts and titles?"
Taliesin: For the moment, why not? I will say, I know the Feywild by reputation, and by reputation you are known for your manners, and any kingdom should be measured by manners as the currency that is the easiest to come across.
Matt: "Manners, by the way, are extremely effective in times of peace. This is not one of those times. However, I appreciate that you at least acknowledge the way things sometimes work. So. Daughter. Son. What else do you need of me?"
Liam: Honestly? Nothing.
Laura: We don't need or want anything from you.
Matt: "Yet you still came to my home."
Laura: Oh, well. Yeah. We got what we wanted, which is access to the city.
Liam: We're not here to be friends or rekindle anything, but it seems like we want the same thing, in a roundabout way. We want to end these dragons. We want to return the world to what it once was. Any help you can give in spite of our past, in spite of all the bullshit between us will be appreciated by more than just she and I.
Laura: We know you have no love for us. Think of those you do love. And I hug Velora. Don't you want to make her safe?
Matt: "That's exactly what I intend to do. If you wish to help in that, then so be it. I'll pull what I can within the city. (sighs) Just leave me to my business, please." You see for a moment there, for all the facade, all the front that he puts up, that strong distance facade, you see the fatigue break through, and there's a, like a dark heartbreak. "This is a greater threat than we've ever faced in our lifetime, and many of those in this city have lived quite a while. We have to do things right. Don't be foolish. Too many lives have been lost at the hands of these dragons, some closer than others."
Laura: Do you know of anyone that has traversed more of the Feywild, that would know of what we might expect?
Matt: "One who's seen the most would be the High Warden. I could probably get you passage to see her, but you're going to be heavily guarded." You guys do know the High Warden, Tyrelda is her name, and she is actually of the bloodline of Gynlara who founded Syngorn centuries ago. She currently is essentially the de facto leader, though in terms of public, she is the final decision-maker on most of Syngorn's political and social endeavors. "Will that suffice?"
Liam: It will.
Laura: It will.
Sam: Good day.
Marisha: Good day. (laughter)
Matt: "Curious manners, your friends." He takes his tea and pours another cupful, and leans back in his chair. "Two dragons you say you've killed."
Liam: That's right.
Laura: More than that, isn't it?
Travis: Of the Conclave.
Laura: Of the Conclave, we've killed two.
Matt: "Which ones?"
Laura: Umbrasyl. And. What was the other one?
Liam: Blitzen?
Laura: Blitzen, Donner? What was the name of the other one? Oh, it was General Krieg!
Marisha: Yeah, that one.
Laura: The blue one.
Marisha: And then we've also killed a white one.
Sam: We thought so little of him we didn't even remember his name. (laughter)
Liam: Brimscythe?
Marisha: Brimscythe. That's the one.
Sam: But also we respect him enough to learn his name.
Matt: "Well, your story has charm. I have to admit, I have gotten word of at least one dragon felled on the other side."
Marisha: I pull out a dragon's tooth from Umbrasyl out of my pocket and I toss it to him. That's the result of the doings of your children. You should be very proud.
Matt: "I am proud. I. Am proud. But the city lives differently. Understand the difficulty that your presence puts upon our family with you being here. I mean no disrespect, and it's fine in this trying time. But while you two may have undergone much ridicule in your youth, I saved you from the brunt of it."
Laura: You-- headphones, dear-- you fucked some random woman in a city you passed through, and you expect us to feel sorry for you?
Liam: You should've left us to be with our mother when she died!
Laura: Why? Why pull us away from her if you had no love? We would have been happy with her.
Matt: "Because I had hope that you would be worth more, given that you had my blood in your veins, than to waste away in some small hovel."
Laura: If I could pull the blood of you from my veins and give it back, I would. I want no part of you.
Matt: "There are many things we wish for but we have no choice but to take what we are given and make the best with what we have. Even with this rift, there is still a part of me that cares for you both and is genuinely happy that you live. And that you rise. And that you prove what the rest of these fools in this city said you were incapable of. Yes, I am prejudiced. But I still fight it every day. And I'm not going to lie, every time that my daughter, your half-sister, laughs and plays stealthy Vax and Vex on her own, it makes me smile. You inspire those outside of our city walls with your doings. I think that's rather large of you. As foolish and as damned deadly as some of these endeavors may be, you inspire. That's more than I've done in my lifetime. So. Care not what I think. Care not how your mother died. Just avenge it. For both of us. Show your little sister that you can rise up and destroy whatever comes in your way. Hate me all you want. It's only half-scorn from me. I live with my regrets. I tried to bring you up right. But that upbringing was not right for you. And by the time I tried to return you, it was too late. I'm sorry. That's all I can say." Devana goes, "Anyone want any more tea? Oolong, you said."
Sam: You got it!
Matt: "Right, yes." And she leaves, awkwardly.
Travis: Just so you know, what they did against the dragons was incredible. All of the rest of us were like, "Ah! Oh, we're dying! We don't have anything we can do!" And then they were like "Kill! Stab!" And then--
Marisha: Percy! No, don't die!
Taliesin: What are you doing?
Marisha: I'm being blood out of your jugular, just go with it.
Travis: And then they killed them all! It's the only reason we're alive, really.
Sam: It's true. Vax wanted to go inside the dragon, I was like, no! No, let's do it! (laughter)
Sam: Cut his way out, went back and saved me. Crazy.
Matt: "That does indeed sound quite crazy."
Travis: I mean, the balls on this one-- this one.
Matt: "Let's be honest, Grog. They both have--"
Travis: Lord Grog Peanut Butter of Strongjaw. I'm titled.
Matt: "I'd say they've both proven to have more balls than most of those in our city."
Liam: Look, we're never going to be a happy family.
Matt: "No. That is right."
Liam: But if you want to make reparations, help us on our path. It will only help you on yours.
Matt: He stands up from his chair and walks his way back to his study and closes the door behind him.
Laura: Well, fuck. Guess he's not into us now.
Travis: I thought we weren't getting in a fight!
Taliesin: No, this is good.
Sam: Do you want me to take a dump somewhere?
Taliesin: Not yet.
Laura: Oh, headphones, darling.
Sam: Oh, sorry.
Matt: She pulls your hand down, looks at you, says, "Take a dump!"
Laura: Oh, shit. I mean, shoot!
Matt: "I like him."
Sam: That's gnomish. Doesn't mean the same thing.
Matt: She's now transfixed on Scanlan.
Laura: Darling, he takes blue sparkly poos!
Matt: "Blue sparkle poos? Can you teach me?" (laughter)
Sam: Do you have any blueberries?
Matt: "I'm going to ask my mom if we've got blueberries."
Travis: Holy shit.
Matt: She runs off to the kitchen. A few minutes pass, and Devana comes out holding the tea on the cart and goes, "Who taught my daughter to say 'blue sparkly poo?'"
Laura: I don't know what you're talking about.
Marisha: Is that a swear word?
Laura: You should really control the people in this city from talking about that, because it's weird.
Sam: She got it at preschool.
Taliesin: So many soldiers everywhere.
Matt: "Velora, go to your room."
Marisha: I've never heard a soldier say, "Ah, blue sparkly poo!" I feel like she didn't get that from a soldier.
Taliesin: You've never really been in war, have you?
Matt: The door opens from the far study, and you see Syldor walk back in holding what looks to be a rolled-up piece of paper with a seal on it. He heads over and tosses it onto the table. "That will grant you passage through the city. That will grant you a single meeting with the High Warden. That's the most my power can do at this time."
Laura: This is a belt buckle, why are you passing me this?
Liam: (stage-whispering) We're playing pretend.
Laura: Okay, oh, it's a sealed scroll now.
Taliesin: May I see that really quickly? Don't throw it! Pretend!
Marisha: Pretend. I'm pretend handing it off.
Sam: Ooh, good object work.
Liam: Now get in the canoe!
Laura: Yes, yes.
Taliesin: Right, they're all elves. I can't look at them.
Sam: Oh, it flew away!
Taliesin: This grants an audience for all of us, then?
Matt: "Yes."
Taliesin: You're going to have to amend that one name, though, just to be fair. It's Lady Vex'ahlia.
Matt: "Lady?"
Taliesin: Lady Vex'ahlia, Baroness of the Third House of Whitestone and Grand Mistress of the Grey Hunt. (cheering)
Taliesin: So good sir, despite your relationship with her, do watch your manners.
Sam: Tea spit take!
Matt: "My apologies, Lady Vex'ahlia."
Laura: Well, you didn't know. (laughter)
Matt: You can see, there's confused surprise, but a smile does curl across the corner of his mouth. "I will make the amendment immediately." And he stands back up, takes it from Percival and makes his way back to the room.
Liam: Darth Vader.
Matt: He returns, hands you the amended paper. "Good luck."
Laura: This is a belt buckle-- oh. (laughter)
Matt: It's a gift from your mother.
Travis: You should thank Percy.
Matt: "If you do intend to make your way towards the Shademirk, be careful. Be safe. And if anything comes your way that you feel you are incapable of handling, run. We don't need heroes right now, we need survivors."
Travis: No promises?
Matt: He shoots you a very dark look.
Travis: Right. Sorry. The House of Peanut Butter will continue its bloodline. I don't know.
Matt: "I will send word. Where can I send word to retrieve you when the time is ready for us to attack?"
Sam: Do we have accommodations in the city?
Laura: Yes, but we'll be in Whitestone.
Matt: "I will send word to Whitestone when we plan to return to the Prime Material, and preparing our forces for attack upon Thordak in Emon."
Marisha: If not, reach out to Allura of Emon.
Matt: "I know Allura well, and I can reach to her."
Marisha: I had a feeling you did. (laughter)
Sam: Are you hitting on their dad?
Matt: "Anyway."
Marisha: Does everything look like hitting on people to you, Scanlan?
Sam: It does.
Matt: It's the Scanlan filter. It's on Snapchat.
Marisha: Take off the beer goggles, take them off! Those are plus-two magical beer goggles. Take them off!
Matt: He stands up and at this point Devana enters beside him, puts her hand on his shoulder. He looks to you with his hands crossed before him and goes, "I wish you luck and safe journeys. I appreciate you coming by. It was good to see you both."
Liam: Where did our sister go?
Matt: Turns and Devana goes, "She's in her room for using bad language."
Laura: Poo is a really terrible word to say, I think. Good thing she didn't say any of the other words that she heard in here.
Matt: "Hold on." And she leaves and comes back, this time pushing Velora from the back, and Velora walks up pouting with her arms crossed, holding her little owlbear under her arm.
Liam: Come here.
Matt: She runs up and gives you a big hug. "Are you leaving?"
Liam: Yeah, just for a little bit, though.
Matt: "You just got here!"
Liam: I know. Listen, do me a favor? Keep scraping up those knees, will you? You crawl anywhere you want in this city, the higher the better. And listen to your parents some of the time. But not all of the time.
Matt: "I can already do that."
Laura: Oh, and!
Matt: She gives you a little kiss on the cheek and then runs up and puts her arms around you and almost pushes you back, she's bigger than you remember.
Laura: She is. I pull out one of my owlbear feathers that I picked up with Zahra and I tuck it behind her ear.
Matt: "What's this?"
Laura: It's an owlbear feather. I know! (laughter)
Matt: She steps back down and looks at her little plushie and--
Laura: You keep that behind your ear, and you wear your necklace, and you never forget that Vex and Vax love you very, very much, dear.
Liam: Listen to us. You are not our half-sister. You are our sister.
Matt: She runs up and hugs you both, one in each arm, and then steps back down. "Thank you. Come back soon, please!"
Laura: Of course, come visit me in my baroness... isity.
Matt: She runs back to her mom's side and looks at her mom and goes, "Poo." (laughter)
Matt: Devana rolls her eyes and goes, "Ugh. Thank you. So much."
Liam: Shit's a good word, too.
Matt: Covers her ears.
Travis: Are we doing that now? Penis wiggle! (laughter)
Matt: You see Devana's looking cornered, it's like, (shushing noises). Syldor actually starts laughing. "I hope that's good day, then!"
Sam: Good day.
Laura: Good day.
Travis: Bidet.
Marisha: Good day.
Taliesin: Good day.
Matt: "Good day." And Syldor bows, you all slowly leave the door, and right before the door closes behind you hear a little voice go, "Shit." (laughter)
Matt: "No!" The door closes.
Marisha: We're those terrible-influence side of the family, aren't we?
Laura: I run up and I give Percy the biggest hug. Percival!
Taliesin: It's the gift of smugness, it never goes away.
Laura: Wait, is it real-- no. Was it all just to--
Taliesin: No, I actually, it occurs to me that we did kill two of the three barons of Whitestone the last time that we were there. (laughter)
Taliesin: There's no house and there's no money--
Marisha: It's the one Scanlan burned.
Taliesin: It's the one that Scanlan burned.
Sam: Oh, you're the lady of the house that I burned down.
Taliesin: And there's just a crypt and that's being used for other things, but--
Marisha: But you have a title!
Taliesin: But you do have a title, at the very least. And once a year, you have to do something ridiculous.
Laura: Even so, Percy.
Taliesin: You're welcome.
Laura: I thank you so much.
Taliesin: Use it in good health.
Travis: I lean over to Scanlan and I say, did you notice that their dad was saying "bidet" wrong?
Sam: I did. I did.
Travis: I thought he was like a highfalutin type.
Sam: You should just say it even louder to make sure people know the correct pronunciation.
Travis: I know. We could be a force for good in and outside of the city. Bidet!
Sam: Bidet!
Matt: The guards that are waiting for you outside of the house just sigh very loudly. (sighs)
Travis: Change is hard.
Matt: All right, so you have your parchment. Within the next half-hour or so it's not difficult for you guys to go ahead and find sleeping arrangements for the evening within Syngorn. You're met for the most part with standoffishness and curiosity with your approach, but upon showing the paper there is a sudden realization and a formality that is brought to the conversation, and it's, you can't help but enjoy it, the two of you. You haven't walked through Syngorn and been forcing people to show you the respect you've always wanted, and there is something slightly cathartic about that. But you manage to find accommodations for the evening's rest. The guards proceed up into the secondary floor where your room is kept. Will not enter the room, but notify you that they will be staying outside of the doorway to ensure that both you are protected and that you don't do anything crazy in the night.
Travis: What?
Laura: That's stupid.
Marisha: We're respectable.
Taliesin: It's adorable that they think they could stop us if we tried.
Marisha: I know! Are we all in rooms next to each other, are we in one room?
Matt: It's a series of rooms within what looks like it was at one time a military barracks that has since been renovated. It's not really an inn or tavern; there aren't a lot of travelers that come through Syngorn that don't actually live there or have a home, so it's more being used for storage, but they cleared out an area and they put up beds and it looks-- Syngorn storage room is pretty nice by the standards of like Kymal or Westruun, so it's not too bad.
Taliesin: There's some art nouveau happening. That's all I can really ask.
Marisha: Have they already locked us in our rooms?
Matt: No, you've just gotten to your rooms now, so.
Travis: We're a very religious group and we like to have a family prayer.
Laura: Speaking of, wait. Where the fuck is Pike?
Sam: Oh shit.
Marisha: She was right behind us!
Matt: You all, you all realize in the chaos and the tension of meeting your father--
Liam: Must've gotten lost!
Travis: No, she's here.
Matt: You catch a sudden flicker of divine energy in the space of the hallway near you. The guards step back, looking a bit freaked out and grabbing their weaponry, and you see a burst of Pike's face coming through, her divine form, and she says, "I'm sorry--" (static) Disappears, comes back. "The walls--can't maintain--" And her form vanishes once again.
Travis: Fucking Verizon. (laughter)
Laura: Great, now we'll never have them as a sponsor. Thank you, Travis.
Liam: Go T-Mobile.
Matt: Go AT-- No.
Marisha: So can we have like a little family pow-wow in maybe one of the rooms before we all tuck in for the night and you put the masking tape over each of our doors so we don't sneak into each other's rooms. High school field trip, yeah?
Sam: I don't know any of those words.
Matt: "Do as you wish, we'll be here if you need us."
Travis: Do you need anything, drinks?
Sam: We need to talk to the little fucker.
Travis: Then-- oh, what? Oh, yeah! Well, let's all head inside for prayer.
Laura: Actually--
Taliesin: We'll need food and drink.
Laura: Guard! One of you, could you go get us some food? We're very hungry.
Marisha: And wine? Maybe some wine?
Laura: As a baroness, I'm very used to getting food when I want it.
Matt: One of the guards steps forward and says, "Let me see that parchment once more, please?"
Travis: That's not it.
Matt: That's a belt buckle. (laughter)
Liam: My belt buckle!
Matt: Rolls it back up, hands it back. "I will retrieve your necessary meal, drink, and other requests you may have."
Liam: Chicken, please.
Laura: Thank you. I want anything but chicken.
Matt: "Noted and noted." And he turns around and leaves the three other guards standing outside of your rooms to do about as you please.
Sam: Right, so we pick the biggest room and we all enter it.
Matt: It's a two-bedroom, opposite sides, and there is a window that has a beautiful view of the central lake that sits at the center of Syngorn, the entire city's built around, before it meets the base of the mountain range that it's buttressed against.
Sam: Titicaca.
Matt: That sounds Elvish, but it's not.
Sam: No, I just like saying that.
Matt: Door closes behind you guys.
Travis: Gormidi?
Matt: There's a little flash, a sparkle of arcane light as the satyr form goes, (breathes heavily) "That was a little harrowing. You didn't tell me you were going to bring me into the belly of the beast so soon, we didn't even talk about-- that was really good tea, by the way; that was quite delicious."
Taliesin: You were drinking our tea?
Matt: "Very quietly."
Marisha: I was wondering where my tea went.
Travis: Now, hold on. Did you steal anything while you were in there?
Matt: "No!"
Marisha: Garmelie...
Matt: "No!"
Sam: Insight-check him.
Travis: Insight-check that bitch!
Sam: Natural one. (laughter)
Matt: He is about as hard to read as anyone you've come across in the Feywild.
Marisha: Can I try?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: I feel like we don't need an insight check to know he was lying.
Marisha: Oh, I got a 17. I'm way more better than Scanlan. Natural insight. 28.
Matt: 28. Through his teeth.
Marisha: I do a little entangling underneath of him and start checking his pockets, TSA style. Start giving him the frisk.
Matt: These vines wrap up around his legs and he's like, "Oh, I was just!"
Marisha: Into the pockets.
Travis: Just let it happen.
Laura: Where are the pockets?
Matt: In his vest.
Marisha: In his vest pockets.
Taliesin: There better not be an owlbear in there or I'm going to be very upset.
Matt: No, you reach into one pocket, it's empty. You reach into the other, and your arm goes quite far into the pocket, farther than it should--
Marisha: You little devil.
Matt: "What? This is extremely degrading! We had a deal." It's empty.
Marisha: Is this a pocket of holding? I think about the fancy silverware that I might've seen in Syldor's house.
Matt: Nothing. Just an empty space.
Travis: Come on, keep going.
Marisha: I think of fancy teacups, because he mentioned drinking tea.
Matt: (melodically) Nothing!
Marisha: Goddamn it.
Travis: You've never stolen anything, shit!
Laura: Think of gold. Think of gold, Keyleth.
Taliesin: I cast Friends.
Marisha: I think of gold? Oh, I think of gold. Sorry, I'm not materialistic.
Taliesin: We're going to have to have a working relationship.
Laura: Why do you say that like it was a bad thing?
Marisha: I mean, I'm not. I'm a Barbie girl in a Barbie world. (laughter)
Matt: He smacks the side of your arm and is like, "Get your hand out of my pocket!"
Marisha: Ow!
Liam: Keyleth. Check the fur.
Laura: No, don't check the fur.
Matt: "Excuse me?!"
Taliesin: Let's give him a chance to 'fess up.
Matt: "This is not why we're here to talk. We are here to discuss the elements of our agreement. Two things I require your aid in taking, and then I show you to the outskirts of the Shademirk."
Laura: I feel like now we already know where the outskirts of the Shademirk are.
Matt: "But do you know of the dangers that are on your way?"
Sam: Yeah, you told us about all three dangers that we have to face.
Marisha: That's true. I have them written down. (laughter)
Marisha: The Hut of Wodenna, the Last Camp of Sorudun the Happy, and the theatre.
Matt: "And you think those are all the dangers?! There are so many! It's a dangerous place! Stop touching me!"
Travis: All right, hands off him.
Sam: Just tell us what the two things are we that we need to steal.
Matt: "All right. I require a piece of a threshold crest."
Laura: What the fuck is that?
Marisha: Of a threshold crest?
Liam: Giant stones on the outside of the city.
Matt: "Threshold crest." Which you recall are the blue stones that are in the wall around the city.
Laura: That's the stupidest thing.
Marisha: Oh no!
Matt: "Why is that stupid?"
Laura: Because then they can't go back!
Matt: "You don't have to get it from the wall. I'm sure they build it from something and there might be a reserve somewhere."
Marisha: Right, in the other dimension that they came from. You realize Syngorn didn't originate here in the Feywild, right?
Matt: "I understand, but just..."
Marisha: Oh, lord have-- oh, sweet Sarenrae.
Taliesin: Wait, okay, a threshold-- a piece?
Matt: "A piece of a threshold crest. Just but a sliver."
Liam: The same material?
Matt: "The same material enchanted that is functionally able to be utilized in the same fashion."
Travis: No problem. What else?
Matt: "Great. I also want the High Warden Tyrelda's hat."
Travis: Her hat?
Laura: Do we know what her hat looks like?
Matt: You do, actually.
Laura: What does it look like?
Matt: It's a pointed, small tricorn made of green velvet that she wears when she goes on like excursions outside of the city.
Marisha: Oh my god, she's got a pirate tri-corner hat?
Matt: It's small and very long. Imagine a pirate hat with a little more of an elven sleekness to it.
Laura: Wait, like a Robin Hood hat? Like Peter Pan!
Marisha: Oh my god, like Peter Pan!
Matt: Sure, yeah!
Liam: I wasn't looking forward to this moment, but that actually sounds like fun.
Laura: That's it, that's all you need?
Matt: "That's all! And I will fulfill my side of the deal."
Marisha: I have a vague idea of why you might want a piece of the threshold crest, but why would you want the High Warden's hat?
Matt: "Because I have my reasons."
Taliesin: So. Are you going to give us what you stole now? We have an arrangement.
Matt: "We do have an arrangement."
Taliesin: It's only fair. Come on.
Matt: Reaches into his pocket and pulls out what looks to be a very finely sculpted bronze statue of Syldor that was gifted for essentially his work with Emon and establishing better trade routes between that city and this city. It's basically a good job, salesman of the year award of Syldor's.
Marisha: They stole his Emmy?
Matt: Kind of, yeah.
Laura: No, it's like they stole his gold watch.
Liam: I yoink it out of his hand. I'll take that. I got it right here.
Sam: It's a belt buckle.
Liam: Right on my belt.
Travis: So weird, you pickpocketed the thing that wasn't even expensive.
Laura: Why did you take that?
Sam: He can't help it, he's a klepto.
Matt: "No! It was there and nobody was looking."
Marisha: Because it ultimately doesn't matter. You know how awards work. Come on.
Matt: "Regardless, we have business to tend to. Come, we have a hat to catch!"
Liam: Oh, you want to come along?
Marisha: Oh, hang on, before we all leave. Vex and Vax, what did your dad do back in the day? Because he knows Allura and he talked about knowing Thordak.
Laura: He's an ambassador to the city.
Marisha: Does he have any type of fighting capabilities?
Laura: Ugh. If he does, we never saw it.
Liam: Yeah, he'll bore you to death.
Laura: Yeah, he can talk a lot.
Marisha: Because it sounds like he was a part of the mission to lock in Thordak 11 or so years ago.
Laura: What? No way.
Marisha: He mentioned that he's been down this road before.
Laura: He knows Allura because he knew the Council members. He was the one that sent us off to find...
Liam: He's a traveling salesman that sells politics. He's not anything all that fancy.
Marisha: Well, if he sells politics, there could be a lot in selling war against a dragon. I'm not trying to be a dick, but your father was kind of a dick so I'm just questioning it.
Laura: No, he's an asshole. That's totally fine.
Marisha: I'm not trying to talk shit about your family.
Laura: No, feel free.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Y'all should totally fight right now. Just fight in the room while we're all here and take off your clothes.
Marisha: I'm just saying.
Travis: Only way to solve it.
Laura: Totally, totally.
Travis: Yep.
Taliesin: No, that's a very dark and disturbing thought. I'm very impressed.
Marisha: Thank you! I've been learning from you.
Taliesin: Thank you. Now I feel guilty.
Marisha: I don't mean to question to him, he just said a few things that raised a few hairs on the back of my spine.
Laura: Well, maybe we can ask him about it?
Travis: You have hair on your spine?
Marisha: About this time I use Alter Self to go a little half-Minxie and get those-- like when a dog is pissed off and it puffs up the hair, towards Grog.
Matt: She shows you this emerging patch of fur that is like, shh, pushing out the back of her shoulders.
Laura: That's real sexy.
Travis: Pretty sweet.
Laura: Pretty hot.
Taliesin: It is a very fair point, although I would say I think it would be best to talk to Allura about your father rather than talk to him again, I think he's possibly had enough of us for a while.
Travis: So we have the meeting, we go get the tricorn hat from her, like, boudoir and then we go get the crest on the way out, right?
Sam: Maybe we can even find a clue about where this crest thing is from the meeting.
Matt: "Grand! That's a great idea! That's a great idea."
Laura: Should we sleep before the meeting?
Taliesin: I think the meeting is actually tomorrow.
Laura: Yes.
Sam: It just says we get one meeting, I don't think it's been "sheduled" yet. Should we go "shedule" it?
Laura: Let's "shedule" the meeting.
Travis: Or maybe we could send one of the shitty guards to go "shedule" it for us.
Laura: Is he back from getting us food? Oh no, I hope he's not, because I want to send a second one out there.
Sam: Ooh! Because you're a lady.
Laura: Because I'm a baroness.
Travis: I don't think they're going to leave us all alone.
Taliesin: I have made such a terrible mistake. (laughter)
Matt: You go and check, you check the hallway, and the guard hasn't returned and the three suddenly spin around as the door opens.
Laura: Hello! We require a meeting with the High Warden.
Marisha: I do a little gust cantrip from behind the door to make her hair blow in the wind. (laughter)
Matt: "I need to take this with me. To make the meeting schedulable."
Taliesin: Yes, of course.
Laura: "Shedulable."
Matt: "Shedulable."
Travis: Bidet!
Sam: When would we like the meeting? Tonight or tomorrow?
Laura: Tomorrow.
Liam: Tomorrow.
Matt: You guys did wake up about four hours ago?
Liam: Did we?
Sam: Today! Later today.
Taliesin: We'll take the meeting today.
Sam: Right after siesta.
Liam: It's like northern Alaska.
Matt: "Very well. I'll return." He turns around and leaves and the two guards look at each other like, thank god it wasn't us. They both stand at the ready as he goes.
Taliesin: Let that be a lesson to the two of you about making fun of a foreigner's accent. I'm watching you.
Matt: As the door slowly closes.
Taliesin: Schedulable!
Matt: The faun, of which is currently-- Garmelie is up on one of the beds right now, stretched out. "So! What are you waiting for?"
Laura: That's your bed, Keyleth.
Marisha: Aw, man.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Brings up one leg.
Laura: Trinket jumps up on the bed and snuggles in with him.
Matt: "No, don't, ugh!" (bear noises)
Marisha: Aw, they're shedding on it!
Matt: (creak, crash) The bottom cracks and the bed actually falls flat on the ground. The springs destroyed.
Taliesin: It's all right, it's a futon now. It's like college.
Travis: Have we seen any of these threshold crests on our way in?
Liam: Yeah, we walked past some.
Marisha: They're those little blue stones that are keeping the city here.
Travis: Don't say it like it's obvious. I don't pay attention to shit.
Laura: But we just need a sliver of one.
Travis: Right, so like, I could take Vax's head and smash it against one and then pick up the pieces. No, that's a bad thing from your frown.
Marisha: Although Grog doesn't have the worst idea. And I don't mean smashing Vax's head. That's not what I mean. But don't we have some hidden gems, because I'm really terrified if we start hacking away at these stones what might happen.
Laura: They might not be able to return.
Marisha: So maybe we can do something kind of fakey.
Sam: He's in the room. (laughter)
Marisha: Is he asleep? He's asleep, right?
Matt: No, he's currently partially crushed by Trinket on the bed and goes like, "I can hear you!"
Travis: I mean, we have jewels and shit, just stuff hanging around, but what does that do?
Sam: No, how do we know if we can chip a piece off without ruining it?
Laura: I wouldn't risk it.
Liam: I think we should talk to some people and ask a couple of questions around town first.
Laura: Yeah. Maybe somebody, maybe the High Warden knows. Maybe we can sneak it out of there or something.
Liam: Just drop it in passing.
Travis: Ooh! Like a souvenir. "Can we have a piece of your threshold crest?"
Laura: Exactly like that, Grog, exactly like that.
Travis: Shit, I have got all the good ideas today. (laughter)
Travis: I'm the leader. So what do we do until the guard comes back?
Matt: The door opens, the guard comes around with food and hands it out to the rest of--
Laura: Does anybody have money for a tip? Because I think you're supposed to tip them.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: "You're not supposed to tip your guards." (boof) Slams the door behind.
Marisha: That's an Emon tradition. We're overseas, remember.
Taliesin: I like it here.
Matt: All right. You finish your meal.
Laura: It's delicious!
Matt: And prepare yourselves for an excursion into the city of Syngorn to seemingly steal a piece of the threshold crest and the High Warden Tyrelda's travel hat.
Marisha: I turn into Minxie and resign to the idea that I'm going to be sleeping with Garmelie and Trinket and just cuddle next to them in Minxie mode.
Laura: Are you coming with us, though, Keyleth?
Marisha: Oh, we're not sleeping?
Sam: No. It's like one in the afternoon, so we'll probably just go.
Liam: But you know, blow a couple more spells.
Matt: So that's one use of your beast form.
Laura: Just come on, then.
Marisha: I'll come on.
Liam: Just save it. You can stay like that, just walk close to me.
Marisha: Am I going to freak people out if I walk around like this?
Taliesin: God, I hope so.
Laura: Fuck them, that's what I say.
Matt: All right. You guys make your way outside into the city streets of Syngorn to hopefully wait for the other guard, who returns about ten minutes later to tell you, "It has been 'sheduled.'"
Travis: Ah, very good.
Matt: "As soon as you wish, attend to the central palace and there you will be greeted."
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: "Are you leaving now?"
Sam: Yes.
Travis: Well, we waste no time.
Matt: Makes a big whistle and the other guards come down, and collectively you now have four guards watching you guys.
Travis: Four?
Laura: Yeah. There were four of them.
Marisha: I drop Minxie form, because that seems very aggressive.
Sam: As we walk I say to Vax  Oi, Vax. What is the reason for this meeting? When we get in there, what do we say to her?
Marisha: Can we have your hat?
Liam: I don't think we should lead with that. Maybe work our way around to it. Well, I would like advice other than this little hairy man for how to get to the bog.
Laura: And also what we might face.
Liam: Yes.
Laura: And how we can fight what we might face.
Marisha: She might know about Fenthras and the bow.
Laura: Yes, exactly.
Travis: Wait, Scanlan, can't you go invisible too? What if you two little buggers just went off and like found it on your own while we were distracting Captain Fancy Hat.
Sam: Find Fenthras on our own, what?
Travis: Yeah, you go invisible along with Fauny Tim over here and you just go find the fucking hat.
Sam: Oh, the hat.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: What if she's wearing the hat? What if the hat is on her head?
Travis: We kill everybody. (laughter)
Taliesin: To be fair, that usually is the plan.
Matt: And thus ended the story of Vox Machina, murdered terribly in the streets of Syngorn by their own people.
Taliesin: Clutching a hat.
Travis: Tarantino film.
Matt: As you guys make your way towards the palace, formulating your plan, we're going to go ahead and take a quick bathroom break here. Guys, about ten, 15 minutes or so, we'll be back here in just a little bit. So use your restrooms, stretch your legs and come back. We'll see you all here in a few minutes. [no audio] (cheering)
Matt: That's a lot of people. Welcome back. First off, I want to say a big thanks to Amanda Mclean for making our awesome graphic for our intermission, thank you Amanda, appreciate that. (cheering)
Matt: We are back. Brought to you by Loot Crate. Let's dive back in, as you guys make your way through the city of Syngorn towards the palace to what would be the northern side of the city. Eventually you come upon the large, slightly swirling stairs that lead to the front of the large brass and ivory surrounded doorway that leads to the interior. You guys have not actually been inside this palace before; you've only seen it from a distance, as your father would not let you in too close to the center of the city. As you make your way up the stairs, you can see guards, the Verdant Guards step out in an aggressive and defensive way, but the guards to your sides immediately put their hands up and signal them to put their arms down and to stand at ease. You guys are brought to the front, the doors open, and a small elderly elvish gentleman comes out, his long white hair almost touching the ground as he shuffles up. He brings a small monocle up to the side of his face. "Yes? Do you have business in the palace?"
Liam: G'day mate.
Marisha: Good day.
Laura: We do. We have a meeting with the High Warden Tyrelda.
Matt: "Let me see your papers. Oh, I see they're right here. Very well. Follow me, please." He turns around and walks his way into the building. You all follow suit and are led through the main entryway to the palace itself. On the inside you can see these giant archways that the pillars that hold them up look like trees that spread to the top like the stone boughs actually hold a canopy made of marble with beautiful portraits and long artistic renditions of the creation of Syngorn, the people, each bloodline that has progressed and taken on the central political structure of the city. As it goes, you can see busts of people who have been of historical importance to Syngorn, and eventually you're brought to the very end of this hallway. Amongst a series of other offshoot hallways and doors, there is the next portion of this journey, this large central chamber. The door is already partially ajar. You are led into what seems to be the equivalent of a throne room, but it appears that there is a half-circle table in the center of the room and a series of chairs that now sit empty across from one side. Your side. The other side of the table, you see sitting quietly and patiently, an older elven woman, you can see the grey in her hair and the crow's-nests at the corner of her eyes, which in elven years means she's quite old, she's probably close to 150 or 200 years old, by your gathering. They can live quite a long time. She would be in the equivalent of her late 50s.
Sam: Not old enough for our party to kill mercilessly.
Matt: No, that's a whole different gauge.
Liam: Throwback Thursday.
Laura: Is she wearing a hat?
Matt: She is not wearing a hat.
Travis: Shit. All right, she lives.
Matt: The guard behind ushers you guys forward toward the chairs. You all get the idea that you should sit.
Sam: We sit.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Are there chairs for all of us?
Matt: There are chairs for all of you but Trinket, who currently, one of the guards is helping to put his hands out in front to keep back, like.
Laura: No.
Liam: That's a good way to lose a finger.
Laura: I wouldn't mess with him if I were you, just to be safe. And I walk up and I give Trinket a kiss on the nose and I put him in his Pokeball.
Matt: The guard leaps back for a second. "That's much easier."
Laura: Just watch closely, buddy.
Matt: You step back, you all find your seats.
Laura: Just talking to my boobs. No big deal.
Liam: Buddy, buddy. (laughter)
Matt: This meeting room pavilion, and as you all have your seat, you see the High Warden waiting there patiently, smile on her face but definitely an expression that shows both intelligence and guard. As you all sit, she looks about the group, asks, "So you've all come and made arrangements to meet with me. You've come quite a ways and with very short notice. I'm curious as to what your reasonings are. Please, state your business."
Liam: You probably recognize the two of us even if you don't know us. We're Syldor's children. This is my sister Vex'ahlia. I'm Vax'ildan.
Matt: "Strange. It has been some time since you've been within the city. Welcome."
Liam: Thank you.
Laura: We're back because we're searching for a certain bow, Fenthras? Said to be within the Murk something?
Liam: Bog of Eternal Stench, I believe.
Marisha: Shadowmurk Bog. That's the one.
Matt: "The Shademirk?"
Marisha: Shademirk. That's it.
Liam: It's not on a lark. We're not a bunch of fly-by-nights. We've already stopped to see Vex's and my father. Over the last several months, we have been dealing, a little more closely than most would want, with the Conclave, these dragons. We know that you are struggling to do the same. We have felled two of them, and I don't say that to brag, just to impress upon you how serious we are. We've come a long way, and we are in need of help. Thank you, darling. I think that the city's intentions are in the best possible place. Brings me a great deal of personal satisfaction, actually. I would like to offer our aid in service of the very same purpose, and that bow, in my sister's hands, will go a long way to felling more of these beasts.
Matt: "Well. You stroll in here with a great deal of arrogance and an air of self-importance. Not in a way that is negative, more in a way that means you aspire, and I hope, not reaching beyond your means. If you have indeed felled these two members of the Conclave as you say, then perhaps this errand to the Shademirk is not as dangerous as one would expect. I would not deny you this, and if you indeed have these capabilities, you should have no issue surviving the Mirk, you and your companions."
Laura: Syldor sent us here because he said you would know what we might face in the Shademirk.
Matt: "Well. The Shademirk, as far as I understand, was once a very beautiful landscape. That once was the fountain heart of the Gilded Run that provided the flowing rivers that spun throughout this entire region. There was an archfey many years before who was turned on by his beloved, who had been growing so spiteful, so full of angst and anger and vengeful thoughts that it turned his heart dark and black and he began to spill into the fen around him. It was there that these lands became the Shademirk. It was there that he became one with the land and corrupted it and turned it. Dryads turned foul and shadowed. Other creatures began to crawl up from the bog itself, and to this day feed off the life of those they can reach. The only thing that holds its spread at bay is the Gilded Run, the rapids. Now, it's found balance, and we watched it spread, as those who've lived here for a long time do. It does not force any sort of immediate threat to any of us, and it serves its own purpose. It has its new-- I shouldn't say new, it's been hundreds of years now-- but its own life, its own biome. And we could not be ones to mess with that, if you will. But it is dangerous, and it is, for those who have scouted far enough to see it, say it is akin to wading through an oil slick. It is to walk into a hungry swamp that never gives up its need to feed."
Laura: Sounds lovely.
Matt: "Yes, quite."
Laura: You say you've lived here. I know the city goes back and forth between the Feywild. Do you travel more freely?
Matt: "I haven't in my older years. When I was younger, perhaps. It is important to maintain an idea of the current state of the Feywild. Every few decades, perhaps every generation, just to be certain when we have to undergo this transition that we don't come into the middle of a war zone in its own right. But I grow tired in my older years, and find myself chained to politics more often than not."
Laura: How did you make that transition so easily? I know that the threshold crests are how the city gets around. (laughter)
Matt: "Well, there are thin areas between the planes, there are doorways, and we have magical means to send small scouting parties between this veil."
Sam: Go on.
Laura: Well, I don't want to be a bother, yes, but. Do they entail any part of those threshold crests? I'm wondering because perhaps we might find ourselves in need of traveling, as well.
Liam: We know we're strangers. But we read much wisdom and experience in your eyes, and it would seem that you have encountered this place yourself, or have experience in the past with those who have, and we're just looking for an edge, really.
Matt: You make a persuasion check.
Laura: Oh, do I want to roll this one or do I want to roll--
Travis: Oh, just pick one.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: The ever-plight of Laura Bailey.
Laura: Ooh! That's a good, that's a good, I'm glad I switched!
Travis: There are 300 fucking dice on this table.
Laura: 27.
Liam: Ooh.
Matt: "We have refined the art of creating the threshold crests. We have personalized enchantments that can be utilized for our trained spies, our trained guides, our trained scouts. We keep them under lock and key, but when an endeavor requires the transference between planes, we do on occasion allow these to go into the hands of our greatest guides."
Laura: If a party would be in search of an item that would be of great use to your survival, would that be worthy?
Liam: Listen, we know we're bastards.
Laura: Stop bringing up the bastard part!
Liam: Clearly. Look into my eyes, we share the same goal. Half of my blood is yours. I want to kill the threat to your city and to all cities. I ask with complete humility. I know what I'm asking. Please.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Laura: Which one? Him or me?
Matt: Him.
Laura: Fuck, can I give him advantage, can I help him?
Liam: Using Luck.
Matt: No, he's got Luck. He has his own.
Laura: Come on, you motherfucker.
Liam: Ouch. I rolled the same thing. Low number twice. No, that's a big five.
Laura: Wait, no, everything's ten. I thought everything was a ten!
Liam: No, that's right, you're right. So that is a--
Laura: 12.
Liam: No, 13.
Sam: Oh, that's better.
Matt: It's better.
Laura: Why did you talk? I think she would've listened to me. (laughter)
Matt: "I appreciate your intent, and I understand that our current paths will hopefully align in the near future. However, such artifacts are very important to us and the business within Syngorn, and I mean no offense in saying that you are no longer residents of our city. As such, no, I cannot provide you with these crystals. However, when the time comes, and you retrieve this bow which you say you seek, I hope that we can count each other brethren on the battlefield."
Travis: Can I look around the room? Are there any doors open, ajar, leading into a bedroom with a hat on a rack?
Matt: Make a perception check, Grog.
Sam: Are there any guards in here with us?
Matt: Yeah, the guards have led you in, they're just back by the front door you entered.
Taliesin: There's a hat rack and a Starbucks, that's what's in the room right there. It's a hat rack and a Starbucks.
Travis: 19. Natural.
Liam: I'm rusty on my rules. That should've been a 17.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Liam: I rolled a three, but because of reliable talent, anything lower counts as a ten. Ten plus my persuasion of seven is 17. I'm just rusty.
Matt: I understand. Same answer. (laughter)
Liam: That is racist!
Matt: No, that is a very closely guarded item that would've required a roll of 20 or higher to succeed.
Liam: The whole time I was like, that seems wrong to me; that it's so low.
Matt: Yeah man, reliable talent's good for that reason.
Laura: Why did your luck suck that time?
Matt: It's all right. Grog, glancing about the room, your suddenly strangely keen giant eyes in an elvish realm, you who can read patterns in rock and mountain faces, but when looking at finely crafted marble it's just a big mess. You see at the very back of the chamber what appears to be an imprint into one of the sculptures, one of the almost silver and brass latticework that tends to look like climbing roots and vines across the back of the room. There is a door that is recessed within that, though it's hidden in the sculpture itself. "Now. Unless you have other business?"
Sam: I have a little bit of business.
Matt: "Yes."
Taliesin: Good, carry on. Sorry.
Sam: Everyone who meets me knows I am a collector of hats. (laughter)
Sam: I take out my beret and I put it on and I say, why, this one was a very special beret I got by defending Whitestone against an invasion of vampires, singlehandedly freeing the city from the scourge.
Matt: "That sounds entirely believable."
Sam: Yes. It's a fine garment woven by a master craftsman. I hear you have a fine hat, as well, that you've been seen wearing about town. Is that true?
Taliesin: I wish I could say this isn't true, but it's actually true. He is genuine.
Matt: "I have been known to have a few garments based on where I'm going, yes."
Sam: As a fine appreciator of the haberdasher arts-- (laughter)
Sam: A connoisseur, really. Could you humor an old gnome like me and show me... I hear tell of a green hat. A tri-tip hat, right?
Marisha: I thought it was blue.
Sam: Blue hat?
Marisha: Might be green.
Taliesin: He's also colorblind, I should mention.
Sam: Tri-tip, triangular-- I just hear it's fantastic, I've never seen one quite like it up close. I was wondering if I could take a look-see.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Sam: With disadvantage.
Matt: Yeah, because you didn't sleep.
Marisha: Yeah, you didn't sleep, Scanlan!
Sam: Well, that was a natural 20. But the first one was a six. Luckily, it's plus 14, so 20. (laughing and cheering) [no audio]
Matt: Bards! "From political requests to a hat collector, this is indeed a very strange afternoon in the palace. Yes, I can have one of my servants show you."
Sam: Thank you so much, it would mean so much to me. I've never met a hat I didn't like.
Matt: "Then I am certain you will be fulfilled."
Sam: Should we just wait here, or is it going to be a while?
Matt: "No, I'll have a servant bring you up." And she puts her hand up and the guards open the door and you see a servant walk out who looks to be a younger elven man. Actually probably about the age of Vax there. Short tattered hair comes across in front of his eyes. He enters. "Yes, mother?" "Could you please show this strange little gnome man to the hat room?" "Yes, of course. Yes. Follow me."
Sam: There's a hat room? I have a hat room in my place, too!
Matt: "That's splendid. Now, is there any other business?"
Taliesin: Just to be clear, you would say that the river is probably our safest mode of entry into the bog?
Matt: "It surrounds the bog and runs past the southern portion of it, so you'll most likely come upon the river one way or another. Lest you wish to traverse the Green Sea, but that I would not recommend, either."
Marisha: So there's no real easy way into the bog, is what you're saying?
Matt: "There's no easy way to anything in the Feywild, my child."
Marisha: Got it.
Laura: Have you seen the tree yourself?
Matt: "I have not."
Taliesin: Are there river men who run boats on the river?
Matt: "No, the river tends to run itself." (laughter)
Taliesin: I had that coming. That's fair.
Travis: That's good.
Matt: "Do you wish to inquire about my shoes? My coat perhaps..."
Marisha: Oh my god, they're so cute, though. They're amazing shoes. I didn't notice them until you pointed them out, sorry. No, continue on.
Matt: "Is that all?"
Taliesin: I think that's all, yes.
Matt: "All right. Good luck. I wish you safe--"
Marisha: Oh, wait, wait, lady!
Sam: High Warden, High Warden.
Marisha: High Warden. I'm sorry. I was just curious. It's my first time to Syngorn, and it's in the Feywild. It's special, right? Is there a gift shop? A visiting the temple and sights of Syngorn type of shop?
Sam: I went to Syngorn and all I got was this lousy shirt?
Marisha: Right!
Laura: We have to make that shirt!
Liam: Shirt after this one.
Matt: "I'll see what Braum can do. Braum, please escort them to some semblance of a gift shop."
Marisha: Oh, thank you!
Taliesin: Good luck.
Matt: "Now, I have important business to tend to. Good luck. Safe travels. Don't die. Let us see each other on the battlefield soon to slay a dragon. Now, please, be on your way."
Laura: We appreciate your time.
Matt: You guys get up and leave, Trinket goes--
Laura: Trinket's in my necklace.
Matt: That's right, Trinket is in your necklace, so Trinket does nothing.
Laura: Trinket does nothing but stare outside of the necklace.
Matt: You make your way out of the room, the guards following suit. You can see the lightish brownish reddish tousled hair of the elven boy who's waiting, he's wearing very fine clothing, though very baggy on his scrawny frame. As you all step out, he says, "All right, so, I'm to take you to the hat room, I believe. Oh, you're going to be very happy. It's quite the room."
Sam: The room I could care less about, it's those hats!
Matt: "Well, I think you'll still be pleased. Are you all coming?" (noises of agreement)
Liam: Traveling with Scanlan, we've all become amateur hat enthusiasts.
Laura: I pull out my hat and I put it on.
Travis: Yep, I pull out the rhinoceros horn.
Liam: (gong) (laughter)
Matt: And he pulls out a little masquerade mask and goes like, "Oh my goodness!"
Sam: You're a hatter, too!
Marisha: Do you get the monthly newsletter?
Matt: "Well, I used to, until we came to the Feywild. It's very boring these days. Well, come, please!" And he darts off excitedly down the hallway. The guards groan loudly behind you. You make your way through the second hallway on the left of the palace, down a flight of stairs into a storage room. To the left you can see what looks to be the entrance to some sort of a heavily barred metallic doorway, about ten feet wide, about 12 feet tall. Further down you come to two doorways. He pulls out a keyring, goes, "No, not that one. Ah, here we are." It opens up into a small room, you can see in here, it's a display room. In here you can see ornamental armor and helmets and all sorts of classic Syngorean designs, which change often because, well, elves when they don't have a lot of things to fill their time with, it's all about designing new outfits and new armor. There's a whole display of very classic designs for the guards, for the watchers, for the people who first founded Syngorn. It's like a history walk through. But there is a section that is primarily helmet designs for different stations and, "This is as close to a hat room as we have. This here is part of the original Temple of Ioun design. It is a delightful piece." He keeps going on and on.
Laura: Do we see the hat that we're looking for in here?
Matt: You do see there is a small rack to the side which is for more just things that are used and you can see there are like wide-brim, rainy-day, carriage-driving hats, you can see there are far-brimmed cloak hoods that are used for horse-riding beneath the rain, you can see there are a few more curved up to one side archer-based hats, and you can see there a nice green velvet hat that is resting across.
Liam: Is that the one area with hats?
Laura: Are they all just jumbled in together?
Matt: They're all jumbled in together in that corner and then the actual helmets are against the wall in different setups.
Liam: Go ahead.
Laura: I nudge Vax and I point it out.
Liam: Scanlan, look at all those codpieces across the room!
Laura: Are the guards in here with us?
Matt: They are, yes.
Laura: I prat-fucking-fall. I pratfall right in front of the guards, on the opposite side of the room.
Matt: Which one?
Laura: I walk to the other side of the room and I just fall over.
Liam: Eat shit, knock shit over.
Matt: Make a perform check.
Laura: Oh, shit. Can it be acrobatics, though?
Matt: No, acrobatics is avoiding the fall.
Laura: Shit. Okay. 19?
Matt: 19!
Laura: I want to take some shit down with me.
Matt: And you do, delightfully so. You fall over, trip, go into a tumble, grab arm over pieces of metallic armor, (crashing sound).
Laura: Ah, oh god, did you see that--
Marisha: Oh my god, Vex, are you okay?
Laura: I think there was a marble on the ground.
Marisha: Oh no, what? Keyleth turns to the guard. (laughter)
Marisha: That was Lady Vex'ahlia, the Baroness of Whitestone. I could sue you! I could sue you for negligence.
Matt: Make a sleight-of-hand check.
Sam: Hold on, he's making a check.
Liam: 24.
Matt: All right. You take the hat. You place it away. Everyone seems to be focused on the currently yelling Vex'ahlia--
Laura: Ow, I think I hurt my wrist!
Marisha: You will get a letter from me, good sir. You will get a letter, okay?
Matt: "This was, look, I apologize if your friend is clumsy, but this wasn't part of our job description, okay, it's been a very--"
Marisha: Your five-star review just went to a four, okay? I just want to say.
Matt: Braum pushes his way in and goes like, "I am so terribly sorry. I didn't mean-- I hope this hasn't ruined your opinion of the hat room."
Laura: If we could just see a gift shop, I would be thrilled.
Travis: And I say to the side, I go, (coughs) pinch my knee, is that the one?
Marisha: What?
Matt: "Are you feeling all right, sir?"
Travis: Yeah, no, (coughs) pinch my knee if that's the one. No, to the little, to the little satyr.
Taliesin: Let's just find a gift shop, Lady Tyrell doesn't need to hear anything about this. Let's just move on.
Matt: "Lady who?"
Marisha: High Warden Tyrelda.
Sam: High Warden Tyrelda.
Taliesin: Tyrelda.
Sam: Yes, well, there's another lady named Lady Tyrell, who's...
Taliesin: No, this is amazing what my handwriting does.
Liam: What did you put in that tea, Percival?
Matt: "Well, I'm glad to see this hasn't ruined your opinion of the collections here."
Liam: Just the safety codes, really.
Marisha: If you took us to the gift shop, it might fix things. Okay?
Matt: "Then come, come! You two clean this up!" And the two guards go, "What?" "Yes, my lord." And the two guards eye you very intensely as they walk over and start picking up all the pieces of armor--
Laura: Ow!
Marisha: I start pretending like I'm doing a Cure Wounds spell to her wrist, you know?
Matt: All right. As you guys make your way out, with two of the guards now; two of them are now left behind.
Taliesin: As we walk out, I just make sure the two guards are, I hope this didn't interrupt your schedules for today.
Sam: "Shedule."
Taliesin: Yes, schedule.
Matt: Somehow their chin goes higher. It's impressive, really. You make your way through, down another set of hallways, back towards the beginning of the palace, he goes, "It's not really a gift shop, the closest thing that we could ascertain based on your request is, we do have a small collection of gifts and knick-knacks we've received from allies over time that really aren't much use to us."
Marisha: Wait, you're taking us to the lost and found? Please! This is the high baroness Lady Vex'ahlia!
Matt: "Perhaps you'll find something you like."
Laura: No, lost and found is a wonderful place to go.
Matt: "It's a combination lost and found and just... gifts from political allies that didn't understand the High Warden's aesthetic. Yes, no, please, this way please." And he leads you back to the main hallway you guys walked through, a little ways towards the entrance, and then another hallway to the left, he unlocks and this is straight-up like a dark storage room, it is just boxes and boxes that are sealed and he lights a small lantern on the side. It flickers to life, and the flame itself, as opposed to a low oil lantern flicker is like a bright glowing light, you can see this is a magically set lantern, as most of the lights in the city are just everlit torches or things that flicker on and off as a light spell. It illuminates the room around you and you can see no one's walked in here in a while.
Liam: These are for sale?
Matt: "No, these are for the taking should you wish."
Laura: Awesome.
Sam: Well, what do we see?
Matt: Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Marisha: Can I ask a logistical question?
Matt: Sure.
Marisha: Is Garmelie with us or did we leave him behind?
Matt: You don't know.
Marisha: What?
Taliesin: You don't know.
Sam: Grog might know.
Liam: 18.
Marisha: Grog.
Laura: 19.
Matt: 18, 19, are you searching, Grog?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: What'd you get?
Travis: Nine. (laughter)
Marisha: Wait, is this an investigation?
Laura: Come on, natural 20!
Marisha: Natural one.
Liam: Oh, propeller beanie!
Matt: Keyleth is distracted by the pretty light in the fixture.
Sam: Natural one. (laughter)
Matt: Scanlan comes up next to her and is equally distracted by this wonderful magical light. Like two moths to a flame. Percival?
Taliesin: Nine.
Matt: Nine. All right. The two twins, you guys spend some time looking through the nearby riffraff and Braum is in the back, hoping you find something to satiate your need for gifts. The twins find their way through a few boxes, and you open up and there's small porcelain dolls, dressed up in ancient Emon's outfits and designs. You can see what looks to be very dusty Kraghammer designed weaponry, you can see what looks to be a bunch of small game pieces that half of them have been lost, like a chessboard of some kind, but only part of it's there. This is really the junk room. This is where all the really bad Christmas presents get put every year. "No, thanks, it's great!"
Sam: Is it like Storage Wars, where there might be something?
Matt: It could, it could be depending on how well you search.
Sam: Well, I searched terribly.
Matt: You did.
Marisha: Keyleth starts talking up Braum. Braum?
Matt: Okay. Braum.
Marisha: Braum. So, Braum. Where're you from?
Matt: "Syngorn?" (laughter)
Travis: Good start.
Sam: We don't have to distract him, he said it's all for the taking.
Marisha: Oh, it's all for-- really, oh.
Sam: No, that's fine, we don't have to.
Marisha: You didn't see any distraction. You didn't see anything.
Matt: "I am so confused by all of you."
Laura: Can I try to do an arcana check to see if there's anything magic in the room?
Matt: Sure. Make an arcana check.
Travis: I'll join you. Two.
Laura: Oh shit, I just rolled off the table. How did I do that? 16.
Matt: Your untrained, though natural arcane instincts reveal to you that--
Laura: I can speak with animals.
Matt: Yes, you can. And there are no animals here. Nothing even remotely magical seems to cross your attention span, unfortunately, and you guys spend a good hour in here sifting through--
Liam: As, as we're digging in the corner, I say, I thought maybe coming back here I might like this city a little bit better, and I was fucking wrong.
Laura: This place fucking sucks.
Sam: Let's get out of here.
Travis: Yeah, there's nothing in here.
Sam: No, let's leave.
Marisha: Okay, yeah, sure. Yeah.
Travis: Let's go.
Taliesin: Pick something pretty.
Marisha: Your four-star rating just went down to a three.
Taliesin: I am picking something random from the room.
Marisha: And I'll also pick something random out of spite. I'll take this.
Matt: You have a fine tobacco box at your disposal now, Keyleth. You can write that down.
Marisha: I like it. I chose it on purpose.
Matt: Percy, you find half of a jeweler's kit.
Taliesin: That's perfect.
Marisha: That's awesome.
Taliesin: I am excited. Was it literally cut in half, like literally?
Matt: Half the supplies are there.
Marisha: And did you say I had a half a tobacco box? Or no, just a tobacco box?
Matt: You had an older tobacco box.
Marisha: An old tobacco box. All right. Yeah, sure.
Matt: Braum at this point goes, "I hope you've all found something you liked."
Laura: All right, I grab something random, too. I mean, if we're all doing it.
Matt: All right. You reach into the Syngorean Wal-mart gift bag on the way out.
Liam: Come on, secret Santa.
Laura: Come on. Roll for value.
Matt: No. I'll do that.
Laura: No whammies.
Matt: You bring out what looks to be a really intricately carved music box made of dark wood.
Laura: Ooh, that's neat.
Matt: As you shake it, you hear (ting-ting) little remnants of the last winding come through, and it seems to still play.
Laura: Mine. I'm writing it down.
Travis: All right, I want to reach in and grab something out of there too. All right, fine!
Matt: You reach in and you pull out a potato. (laughter)
Matt: But it's been there for a while, so like the roots are growing out and everything.
Liam: Oh, with leaves coming out of it.
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: I take a bite out of it.
Matt: That is a stale potato.
Liam: Make a constitution check.
Marisha: Keyleth takes the potato. Okay, give it to me, give it to me.
Travis: Oh here you go. And I squash it in my hand.
Matt: (squelch) up the sides of it. Braum goes, "If you could clean that up?" And the guard goes aww and starts picking up the potato chunks off the ground.
Laura: We're down to one!
Liam: Hey gang, I feel like we've lost focus here. (laughter)
Liam: Maybe we should--
Sam: --get out of here.
Laura: Oh, do we find any broken threshold crests?
Matt: You do not.
Laura: Damn it.
Marisha: Okay, wait, do we find any pictures of threshold crests? Or a postcard?
Matt: Nope.
Taliesin: We're fine.
Laura: All right.
Travis: We leave.
Marisha: We'll just go.
Sam: We got the hat.
Taliesin: We have a plan.
Matt: Braum leads you out of the room, closes and locks it behind, you guys walk back to the hallway that split off, you go past the large metal door again, find your way up into the foyer area at the front of the palace, he goes, "Well, I hope I've been of help to you. I hope I've delivered your interest in seeing our fine selection of helmets and hats here in Syngorn?"
Sam: I am more than satisfied. I will write a five-star review.
Matt: "I don't know what any of that means, but I assume that's good, and I thank you for that. Goodbye."
Laura: Thank you.
Taliesin: Charming.
Marisha: Good day.
Laura: Good day.
Matt: The guard that was cleaning the potato follows suit, you guys now have two guards, the other two have not returned. So you have two guards following you.
Travis: I don't know if you guys noticed, but there was this recessed door up in the queenie's room, but I don't know if maybe she would have some fancy stuff back there. Can't shake these guards.
Sam: Well, some of us could slip in anyway, but what do you think we will find there?
Travis: Well, I don't know. I just noticed, because I wasn't paying attention to all the talking.
Marisha: I think Percy and I can fake them out.
Sam: Fake them out? What do you mean, fake them out?
Marisha: Wait, is he around? Don't say it out loud.
Taliesin: There's no fake. It's not faking. I've got a plan. It's not fake, I've got a plan. It's a good plan. But we should sit, recuperate, go somewhere quiet and figure out how we're getting to the bog.
Marisha: How long have we been awake at this point?
Matt: You mean since you guys woke up this morning, I'd say six hours?
Laura: That's it?
Travis: We don't want to go try and bust one of the crests we already saw?
Laura: We could seriously like fuck it up, what if they can't get back?
Travis: Who gives a fuck?
Laura: They have an entire army to help fight Thordak.
Travis: I didn't think that far ahead, I'm sorry.
Sam: Well, Vex, they could repair it; they have magicians here and stuff.
Travis: Thank you, Scanlan.
Taliesin: How do you repair a--
Sam: With arcane juju.
Laura: You make a very good point. A very good point.
Marisha: But they said they got these stones from the other side, from our realm.
Laura: Maybe we should just go fucking check them out.
Liam: The two guards are here to whole time, right?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Yeah. We should really go take a nap, I think we should go take a nap.
Laura: This dusk is really making me--
Matt: Vex. You hear muttered under the breath of one of the guards, "Thank god." (laughter)
Matt: Very low; nobody else hears it.
Marisha: I've got plenty of energy.
Laura: I mean, is, is anyone else super duper tired? Are you guys tired?
Marisha: I'm--
Marisha: Tired.
Taliesin: Tired.
Marisha: So tired.
Laura: I look at the guards. I mean, are you guys tired? I mean, how do you even know what fucking time it is, right?
Marisha: Right?
Matt: "Do you wish to be escorted to your quarters, then?"
Laura: I would love to get some sleep.
Matt: "Please follow us." And they both lead on, leading you back to the rooms you guys had set for the evening's rest. Eventually you get to your rooms, the guards stay stationed outside, and you are led into your individual spaces.
Laura: There's windows though, yeah?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: And the guards leave us in our rooms, obviously.
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: So wait, are we all in our own individual rooms?
Taliesin: We have earrings, we could just talk on the earrings.
Matt: You all go into a room together, then.
Laura: Super duper happy, all together.
Matt: You have four rooms at your disposal and you all say, we're going to go sleep, and all go into one room with a broken bed.
Sam: We're a close-knit family.
Liam: You can make your own assumptions.
Marisha: We can go into our own rooms and I can fix it if we don't want to tip people off.
Sam: No, we do what we want.
Travis: Yeah, we're fucking close, man.
Matt: All right, you guys all enter the largest room where you met before, and as you all find your way in there, one of the guards goes, "You're going to sleep--"
Marisha: It's for prayer. We have to pray. Remember, right, Grog?
Travis: Oh yes, we're very holy.
Laura: Yes, it's been quite a while. I'm rather hungry.
Sam: We all sleep together; it's a polyamorous thing. (laughter)
Travis: I told you we were holy.
Matt: Scanlan and Vex, make deception checks, please.
Laura: Perception?
Matt: Deception.
Liam: Deception.
Laura: Deception. Oh. Ten?
Sam: 21.
Liam: (cackles) That's the lie that goes through.
Matt: When you say you're tired and ready to rest, the guard goes, "Mm-hm." And then when you say polyamorous, the guard goes, "Oh." (laughter)
Sam: Yeah, man. We are freak-ay.
Liam: I grab Grog by the circlet thing and say, come on, I'm tense. Let's go. (laughter)
Matt: The two guards, the two guards look at each other and take two steps away from the room. "We'll keep a close watch."
Marisha: Keyleth says, we're totally polyamorous--
Taliesin: You! No!
Marisha: And I turn Percy and Vax into squirrels with Polymorph. See? Polyamorous.
Matt: The two guards look at each other, very disturbed and say, "You've already shared too much, we don't judge, just please go 'sleep'." They both hold their blades at the ready, both just like, "What is my life right now?" All right.
Sam: We may need you to clean up for us later.
Matt: "Please! Go! Sleep!" You guys are now closed off inside your room.
Laura: And the squirrels.
Matt: As squirrels. What are you going to do?
Marisha: Okay, I drop Polymorph. That's what polyamorous means, right, guys?
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: Garmelie, show thyself.
Matt: He appears and goes like, "Was that true?" (laughter)
Matt: He has his sketchbook at the ready and is like, "Because I mean..."
Taliesin: No. No.
Sam: You don't know.
Matt: "Well." He closes the book. "So. I believe someone here took a hat?"
Liam: I might have a hat for you. The other adventure didn't turn out so well, and I really want to give you this hat. I'm wondering-- fuck it, I don't have anything to say, take the fucking hat.
Matt: And he puts it on. It's a little small. But he goes, "Ah, it's fine." Smiles back.
Liam: So worth it.
Laura: Yeah. That was definitely worth it.
Matt: He seems extremely proud and happy that this hat is now in his possession. "One of two. Now, the second part."
Sam: Any ideas there, Garmelie?
Matt: "No."
Laura: You passed by those threshold crests several times, I'm assuming.
Taliesin: Let me get this straight, Garmelie. You require of us a piece of a threshold crest.
Matt: "Yes."
Taliesin: Any threshold crest.
Matt: "Yes!"
Taliesin: Just as long as it's a threshold crest.
Matt: "Yes!"
Marisha: And looks like a crest.
Taliesin: It's a threshold crest.
Matt: "A threshold crest."
Taliesin: Okay, Keyleth. The thing we talked about.
Marisha: And I start casting Stone Shape right under the threshold of the door to the room that we're in, and I cut out a crest from the threshold.
Matt: What crest do you create? What does it look like?
Marisha: A Whitestone crest. From the threshold of the door.
Taliesin: We break it.
Marisha: There's a piece of your threshold crest. (laughing and cheering)
Taliesin: Don't cast Friends on people. It's not nice.
Matt: You watch as his ears, his pointed ears slowly slink back and his hair stands up all across the back of his head, his beard almost bristles out into spines as the hat goes (poink) and pops off and hits the ground. He snatches it up. Grabs the piece.
Taliesin: That's your threshold crest. Piece of a threshold crest.
Matt: "Thank you."
Laura: Yay!
Matt: "Well, it appears that our deal has been kept." (laughing and cheering)
Matt: He snaps his fingers and you feel like this sudden, this almost unnoticeable pressure at the base of your neck that you had felt since you made the deal release and absolve, on both of you. "All right, so. Well, at least I got the hat out of it. So. The Shademirk, then? Come, follow me, grab your things." (laughs)
Marisha: Let's go.
Taliesin: I cannot wait.
Matt: "Now." He vanishes. And Grog, you feel a little tug on your finger to pull you forward.
Travis: I fart. (laughter)
Matt: "I had that coming. We now have even more of a reason to make haste. This is a very small room, and I've been following behind him for quite some time. Let's go. Now, quickly." And you see Grog being pulled forward by the finger, and you guys get the feeling that he's leading you out of the city, invisible, by Grog's finger.
Travis: We're going this way. Follow me, chaps!
Marisha: Follow the finger.
Sam: Are the guards following?
Matt: The two guards are following, yes.
Laura: Woo, that was really fun.
Marisha: My hair is messed up.
Sam: Good sesh.
Laura: Good. That was really...
Liam: Thanks, Grog. (laughter)
Liam: I feel loose as a goose. Let's go see this bog.
Marisha: And I transform into a goose and come out as a goose.
Matt: "You-- (frustrated noise) Never mind." The guards follow at a very healthy distance now, both whispering to each other as they watch you walk.
Laura: I think we made a really good impression on this city coming back.
Travis: I'm going to kill you later.
Matt: You guys are led back through the main portion of Syngorn, towards the front gates where the watchers reside. The doors are opened for you, and you are escorted out the front gate, where the guards very happily leave you to be. And both turn around at each other and go, (heavy sigh) and they walk back inside the confines of the outer Syngorean wall. You guys are now back out in the wilds of Syngorn, the finger tugs lead you out past the front of the city, through the marshlike mandrake fields that you initially traversed when you made your way to Syngorn, and then find your way back into the Ever-Shifting Grasses, heading duskward, towards where it seems the dusk sun will set.
Laura: Duskward.
Taliesin: Duskward.
Marisha: Always duskward.
Sam: I hate that direction.
Matt: There's also nightward, seaward, or tangleward. Which would you prefer?
Sam: Are those different directions?
Matt: Yes, those are different directions.
Laura: Tangleward? Did you say tangleward?
Matt: Tangleward. It was mentioned before, yeah.
Laura: Oh. I just thought of the Disney movie and I think I spaced out there.
Matt: I'm pretty sure that the people in the Feywild haven't seen that. Not yet. They're waiting for it to come out on Blu-Ray. All right. So you make your way towards where the grasses get heavy again, and you see Garmelie (foosh) once again take visible form again and be like, "Ah, sorry, that concentration for a while really gets to you, I'm so glad to be out of that stuffy place. So! Shall we?" Rights his hat. And even in righting it, it's a little crooked to one side and he begins marching duskward.
Laura: Onward to the theater!
Matt: "No! No theater! We are avoiding the theater! No."
Travis: Garmelie, how far of a journey is it to this bog?
Matt: "Say about four times since we met?"
Laura: Okay.
Travis: That doesn't mean anything to me.
Laura: Four times since we met.
Liam: I'm just curious, why are you so worried about the theater? I love the theater.
Matt: "I have my reasons." And he continues walking forward.
Liam: Thanks, great. Good talk.
Laura: It's been 14 hours since we've met.
Sam: Can we travel any faster than that? Can we mist, can we tree, can we...?
Laura: Wait a minute, you could-- if you know a tree is-- that would be pretty stupid, to just pop out of the cancerous tree, but if we know a tree is there, couldn't you potentially just fucking do it?
Liam: You've had a lot of good ideas. That's not one of them. That's a bad idea.
Marisha: She's not wrong.
Laura: Wait! Keyleth, what if you just open up the cancerous tree, we reach through, we grab the fucking bow, and then we're out.
Marisha: Well, you're not entirely wrong, I don't know if I can Teleport via Plants because generally that takes knowing the plant. However, I do have Tree Stride, which means we can-- nope, never mind, I can only do that on myself.
Matt: Wah-wah.
Taliesin: We are not sending Keyleth the goose into a bog to retrieve a bow from an angry cancerous tree.
Marisha: But I'm loosey! I'm a loosey goose.
Matt: That would look amazing on an epitaph, I'm just saying.
Marisha: We can mist there.
Sam: Would that save time, I don't remember how fast we go.
Marisha: I might have to take a hot nap.
Travis: A hot nap?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Didn't you guys just take a hot nap? (laughter)
Marisha: Yeah. The answer is yes. I can do all those things.
Taliesin: Well, let's travel for a bit and then we'll take a proper break.
Marisha: If we can get to the edge of the bog, then we'll take a sleep.
Laura: Wait, I think the edge of the bog is kind of far, though.
Taliesin: We'll start our journey, and the next leg of our journey.
Travis: Yeah, let's get going.
Marisha: We'll go until we're tired.
Matt: "I like the sound of that."
Laura: Oh. (belches) (laughing and cheering)
Matt: "Most impressive for a lady."
Laura: Thank you. That's a baroness burp.
Marisha: Robert Durst shit.
Matt: As you guys push on further northward at the behest of Garmelie, you push for another two hours or so through the Ever-Shifting Grasses, and as you get further and further north, the color of the grass seems to go from that deep verdant green to almost a maroon purplish color.
Laura: I pop Trinket out of the necklace.
Matt: He attacks some of the grass and chews it up.
Laura: Yeah, get it!
Marisha: Don't touch the grass, it'll get angry at you! It'll yell at you for a week!
Travis: I don't think that applies here.
Laura: It's okay, darling. It's okay. Keyleth.
Marisha: What?
Laura: Do not yell at my bear.
Marisha: I was just trying to protect him.
Liam: I give him some grass.
Marisha: Don't!
Sam: It's fine.
Taliesin: It's fine.
Matt: And just keeps going forward through the grass fields.
Marisha: Does the grass seem angry?
Matt: No, it just seems to be changing color.
Marisha: Suck it, grass!
Matt: As you say that, the grass goes from a purplish color to a deep, deep red around you.
Sam: Oh god.
Marisha: Because you... suck out the joy of all of us living around you, and you're so amazing.
Travis: That makes it even worse.
Sam: Not a compliment.
Travis: You're still going in the same direction.
Marisha: I mean, you suck out bad--
Liam: I grab Keyleth's hand. Let's take a walk.
Matt: All of you, as you're walking, the actual grasses around you are getting more and more dense and are catching on your feet and you're finding that your progression is getting slower and slower.
Laura: Wait, no. I have Landstride, which means I don't slow against any land.
Matt: Yeah, so you're fine, you just coast ahead. The rest of the party, it's like they're going through waist-high thickets. The grass looks gentle, but as soon as it hits your body, it rakes across it almost like very fine serrated plants, and it's catching on your clothing and pulling you back. It's almost like since those statements were made... (laughter)
Travis: I have a hooded lantern. I could set this whole fucking thing ablaze.
All: No!
Matt: The red goes to a deep cinder-like red.
Sam: Are we going to have roll initiative on grass?
Laura: No, wait.
Taliesin: Does no one-- I'm going to take a moment.
Marisha: I feel like the grass feels our emotions.
Sam: Your emotions. Because you yelled at it.
Taliesin: Lovely field, I apologize for the rudeness of my compatriots. We will be gentle trouncing through you. We will make as little mark as we can and enjoy the splendor of your ever-changing colors. You are majestic, you are windswept-- I'm flirting with grass-- you are everything I could hope for in a beautiful view.
Sam: I sing a song.
Matt: What do you sing? (cheering)
Sam: (singing) Keep growing. Keep flowing, knowing you can always count on me.
Travis: (singing) For sure.
Laura: (singing) For sure.
Sam: (singing) For sure.
Sam: (singing) That's what Scanlan's for. (cheering)
Matt: Percy, I want you to make a persuasion check against the grass? Adding the d10 inspiration die.
Taliesin: Oh, d10 inspiration. Come on.
Marisha: I do an interpretive dance.
Sam: Come on, persuade that plant.
Taliesin: That was leaning.
Sam: That was a leaner.
Taliesin: That jumped, but that's still fine, okay, it's. Persuasion check? Oh yeah, that's not bad. 24.
Matt: What was it?
Taliesin: Eight plus six plus seven. (counting) 21.
Sam: It's more than that.
Matt: Between the interpretive dance of Keyleth amongst the tattered angry grasses, the beautiful vocal stylings of Scanlan Shorthalt, and Percy speaking out a wondrous poem towards the Ever-Shifting Grasses, you watch as the deep bright red subsides into the relaxed purple, and eventually goes back to a dull green, and you find your traveling no longer impeded as it once was.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Good job!
Laura: Good job!
Matt: You successfully parlayed with a field.
Travis: First doors, then grass.
Liam: Don't talk shit to grass!
Sam: How do you want to mow this? (laughter)
Matt: So. About another half an hour of travel before in the distance ahead of you can see the dark edge of what looks to be another forest ahead of you, wide and almost end-to-end, you see it. A lot of these wooded areas almost meet the horizon, it's like you're stepping into just an endless wall of trees. As you begin to approach closer to the edge, Garmelie looks up and says, "All right. So we have choices now. We have the Moonbrush before us, or we have the Green Sea, which is far seaward of here. I would recommend the Moonbrush."
Sam: Then we should go the other way. Because we don't trust a fucking thing you say.
Matt: "Very well."
Laura: Wait.
Taliesin: No, the High Warden did say--
Marisha: -- to avoid the Green Sea.
Laura: Why do you recommend the Moonbrush?
Matt: "Because it's the only real route to get to the Gilded Run."
Laura: What is the Gilded Run?
Matt: "The Gilded Run are the rivers that surround it."
Laura: Right, those.
Matt: "Yes. You're looking for the Shademirk. You have to get through the Gilded Run to get the Shademirk. You have to go through the Moonbrush to get to the Gilded Run."
Liam: Where's the theater?
Matt: "No theater!"
Travis: Right, so we're going through the brushy moon?
Matt: "Yes! Come, come."
Laura: Yeah? Are you okay with that, Scanlan?
Sam: I'll allow it.
Marisha: How long have we been awake?
Matt: You are... you've been awake for about 12 hours now, I'd say.
Marisha: If we want to mist there, then we have to sleep. But we'll press on for a few more hours.
Matt: Certainly. About another 40 minutes of foot travel before you begin to hit the edge of the Moonbrush Forest. As you approach, Garmelie says, "All right, so things you should know about the Moonbrush. One: it is home to a number of denizens." And as you look overhead, you can see it's a thick fog that permeates the entirety of this forest. You can see the outline of every tree trunk towards the outer rim of this entire brush. The canopy of the trees themselves are like long weeping willows that sag and give this very ominous feeling to the entire forest. You can see small mountain spires breaking through portions of the tree line in the distance occasionally, miles between each other, sometimes a cluster far closer together. He says, "There is a clan of sorts that lives amongst the forest, we'll try our best to avoid. They are natural hunters and they are of the lycan persuasion."
Sam: Oh.
Taliesin: Oh.
Matt: "So, best that we avoid interaction. They are well-read, they have a society; we should touch none of it."
Marisha: Question. You mentioned we are going into the Moonbrush with lycan hunters?
Matt: "Yes. It's a necessity."
Marisha: Yeah, no, it sounds like it. Yeah.
Matt: "Yes. But they do have natural enemies. There is a faction of pixies that live within, known as the Wishers, and they are forever locked in a struggle. So avoid both, do not get involved at all, and we'll be fine."
Laura: Do the lycan tend to populate trees, or if we stay up high can we maybe avoid them?
Matt: "Actually, they travel mostly in the trees. That's the easiest way for them to hunt, is unseen."
Laura: Well, there you go.
Matt: "They are ruled by a singular lycan lord, who goes by the name of Ukurat."
Marisha: What?
Sam: Ulurat?
Matt: "Ukurat."
Marisha: Ukurat.
Laura: Ukurat or Udurat?
Matt: "Ukurat."
Laura: Ukurat.
Liam: Ukurat.
Matt: "U-K-U-R-A-T."
Travis: Bob.
Matt: "He is to also be avoided."
Taliesin: Is that an elven name? Is that an elven word?
Matt: "It was, once."
Laura: Wait, he used to be elven? He used to be elven.
Matt: "They all used to be many things. He happened to be elven at one time, yes? So. Anyway. We'll avoid them, and avoid the Wishers, and also those things, the little plants that you saw before?"
Laura: Mandrakes?
Matt: "Mandrakes? Also everywhere. Avoid them."
Laura: Okay.
Matt: "And we'll just avoid the other things I mentioned, so. Shall we?" And he begins to step and march up to the edge of the Moonbrush.
Taliesin: Okay.
Sam: It's fine. We've killed dragons, we'll be fine.
Travis: I'm so stoked right now.
Marisha: Did we-- okay, yeah. Sure. Yeah.
Matt: All right. You guys make your way into the dark Moonbrush itself and as you walk into the forest, immediately you can hear the swell of distant crickets, thousands upon thousands, sourceless, fill the air around you.
Sam: Audience, please. (cricket noises, laughter)
Matt: That works, I was going to look for cricket sounds here. That's also totally doable.
Marisha: Someone's got a really good one.
Matt: As you walk in, the actual dusk light that has permeated the Feywild begins to give way to the first signs of night. You can look up through the different breaks in the tree line, you can see stars for the first time. And you can see what looks to be a very dull white glow of moonlight hitting some of the trees and breaking through some of the treetops themselves. The underbrush itself is very soft and spongy, with a lot of leaves that have fallen and given this soft setup. As you guys push forward for another half-hour or so, you in particular, Vex'ahlia, come upon what looks to be a series of stones, what looks to be a series of small structures, almost. Not like buildings per se, but intently placed obelisks of raw, rough stone. And as you come across and look on that side, you can see what looks to be the base of one of the mountain spires that sticks out, a large cave.
Laura: Do I see any kind of markings on the obelisks?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: Oh. Get out of here!
Matt: What'd you get?
Laura: Natural one.
Matt: Natural one.
Laura: I know!
Matt: They just look rough and old. They've been placed there. It's old magic.
Liam: God, you're so bad at D&D!
Laura: I suck!
Matt: But you do see around the ground right out in front of this cave what appears to be hundreds and hundreds of small objects, piles, what looks like fruits and flowers and bones and stone carvings, all sorts of things placed in front of this cave.
Marisha: Can I do a nature check on one of the bones to see if I can identify where it came from?
Matt: Okay. So you head out and take one of the bones and look at it. Go ahead and make a nature check.
Marisha: Yeah, the closest bone, I don't want to, ooh. Yeah.
Taliesin: That ain't nothing to sneeze at.
Marisha: No, it's not. 28.
Matt: 28. This bone belongs to a larger bird, like a great eagle, you can't quite specifically make out what it is, but it's been carved with small letters into it of a language you can't understand. It looks like it's some sort of a ritual item that's been placed there in the ground. But as you pick up and make this moment noticed--
Liam: I'm going stealth just because.
Matt: You all hear a giant, echoing roar coming from the cave.
Liam: Was I fast enough?
Matt: (roars) What'd you roll?
Liam: 30.
Matt: 30. Okay, yeah. You just (bip) out; you are gone. The rest of you are right at the outside of this small clearing where all of these small objects have been placed, you hear this rumbling loud roar come tearing through.
Marisha: I step back with the bone.
Matt: Okay. What are the rest of you guys doing?
Laura: I pull the broom out from behind my back.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Can I lean the bone over to Vex'ahlia and be like, is this Draconic?
Laura: Is it Draconic?
Matt: It is not Draconic.
Marisha: God fucking damn it.
Laura: Is it anything that I recognize, though?
Matt: What languages do you know?
Laura: Elvish, Abyssal, Undercommon.
Matt: No, none of those.
Laura: Shit.
Matt: However, at this time the trees behind you two, because the rest of you guys were staying back--
Laura: Who's you two?
Matt: Vex and Keyleth. The trees (fwoosh) shift and close off the exterior. As you turn towards the entrance of the cavern, you can see emerging from the front a giant-- it's hard to really tell the first moment that it appears, but you see what looks to be a gargantuan dire bear-like entity made of crackling blue ghostly energy, shimmering, translucent, not actually a physical form, but massive in size. (stomping noises, roar)
Marisha: Wait, did we get cut off? Did Vex and I get cut off from everybody else?
Matt: Yep. From everybody else.
Laura: Shit! I grab Keyleth's wrist and I fly into the air.
Marisha: I hold on for dear fucking life.
Matt: As you grab her wrist as you fly up, the trees, swoosh, close off and you go slamming into the tree boughs (crashing sound). You lose the broom for a second. Go ahead and hold your grip. Go ahead and make a strength check.
Laura: A strength check!
Sam: We can't even see them, Matt?
Matt: You guys can't see them and they just closed off in the trees.
Laura: Come on! Is that a saving throw or just a check?
Matt: Just a check.
Laura: Five.
Matt: Five? You lose your grip on the broom, and both Vex and Keyleth tumble down about 20 feet, you both suffer seven points of damage as you slam into the center of another pile of what looks like knick-knacks and things that are gathered on the floor. It's at this point that your mind hits that these are probably offerings, these are things that are left as some sort of offering to this bear-like spirit entity that exists in this cave. The bear, which is now, (stomping sounds), coming up towards you on the ground. Looks to Keyleth, (roars).
Marisha: Hi!
Laura: I cast Speak With Animals!
Matt: Okay, you cast Speak With Animals.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Like I taught you!
Laura: (weak growling sounds) (laughter)
Laura: And I say, we mean you no harm, great ghost bear! In fact, we brought you an offering and we just accidentally touched the other offering of yours.
Liam: Où est la bibliothèque? (laughter)
Laura: The cheese is old and moldy.
Matt: None of the bear's face moves at all, but an echoing voice, in Common, not animal speak, comes blasting into both of your minds, and those of you guys outside of the trees, trying to find a way through, also hear this echo, "You have entered the domain of Orlan. You destroy and disgrace that which was gifted. What do you offer in response to your travesty?"
Laura: Yeah, well, I--
Sam: We have a hat. A really good hat.
Marisha: I've got an old tobacco box I got from lost and found.
Laura: Ooh, yeah, that's pretty good. I offer him a tea set.
Matt: As you pull the tea set out, the bear claw reaches out and smashes it out of your hand and goes scattered and breaking across one of the stones and goes, "You walk into the realm of the wild, unwatched, unrespecting. The beasts of this land hold no kinship with you. You will prove offering yourself." And the tongue licks the lips.
Marisha: What? I turn into a giant scorpion.
Matt: The scorpion takes its form, as it does the bear, (growls).
Marisha: You want an offering, you can have mine.
Matt: Make a persuasion check on that.
Marisha: Oh god.
Liam: By the way, am I hidden in or outside?
Matt: You're outside.
Marisha: 21.
Laura: Good job, Keyleth!
Marisha: Thank you!
Matt: "I sense you have kinship with beasts. You may pass, though I will not forgive this infraction. You."
Laura: Yeah?
Matt: "You shall be the prize."
Laura: Oh, fuck.
Matt: The giant bear is looming over you now, and its size is so immense, probably 15 or 20 feet to the top of its shoulders.
Laura: Trinket! I call Trinket.
Matt: You call Trinket?
Laura: I call Trinket.
Matt: Leaps out of your necklace and lands right beside you and just roars, (roars) up to the spirit. The spirit pulls back, (roars), roars back. And Trinket is so tiny by comparison and is up to the elbow, but Trinket lashes out at the giant bear, just leaps up towards it, pushes into it and starts tearing at its throat. The giant bear takes Trinket with one claw and slams him into the ground. Trinket rolls and gets back up, (growls), you can see a little bit of blood at the corner of its mouth, and just lunges again, this time jumping up onto the bear's back and clawing up onto its, onto the top of its torso. The bear (growls).
Laura: He's pretty cool.
Matt: The bear head looks up at Trinket now gnawing onto its hide, (gnawing sounds), seemingly to no real effect, and the bear reaches up and grabs Trinket and plucks him off the side and sets him down next to you. The bear now begins to speak in the language of bears, which only you can understand at this moment, says, "You walk with this one. Is she your charge?" And Trinket voices back, you hear the (bear noises) up to the bear, as you hear coming out, "She is everything. Her life is mine. You take her, you take me, or we walk on and remember you as a kind soul." The giant bear looks down, "Very well. If you are at her side, I take your charge, as well." And the spirit bear steps forward, passing through you, and passing through Trinket's form, and what feels like this rush of warm air. And then disperses into a series of sparkles. You watch the energy slowly drift down and fade into the ground around you, and everything gets quiet. The trees slowly creak back and open the perimeter of this forest around you, leaving you alone. And Trinket comes up and licks your face.
Laura: Oh! (cheering)
Matt: As he's looking at you, you look down and you can see the necklace that you hold is actually shimmering with a blue light that passed through you, and it slowly fades to its dark normal form.
Sam: You're part bear now!
Matt: So. That's your new item card for Raven's Slumber. (cheering)
Audience member: What's it do?
Laura: I don't know.
Matt: So. I've got to finish this quickly because we've got to get to the Q and A, but as of this point in time, and I'll give you an ability card, but Trinket now benefits from your Hunter's Mark. (cheering)
Matt: And has an ability called Primal Fury you can use once per short rest that I'll get to next episode. As you all gather around this moment of silence, this quiet tension that has now dispersed, you see Trinket lift up Vex from the base of her cloak and put her back on her feet, nuzzles the side of her, and you can see the trees overhead open up a little wider than they were before, leaving some moonlight to hit the two of them. And that's where we'll go ahead and leave this session this week. (cheering)
Matt: Thank you, guys! (cheering)
Audience member: Is it Thursday yet? (cheering)
Matt: Thank you. (laughs) Thank you guys so much for joining us here live, this has been an awesome and incredible first experience for all of us. Thank you so much for tuning in and watching with us this week. We're looking forward to the GenCon show in a few weeks, so some of you guys over on that side of the US can hopefully come and see us here as well, and join in this fantastic energy that tonight was just filled with. So hopefully we'll do more of these as time progresses.
Travis: Thank you, Loot Crate!
Laura: Thank you, Loot Crate!
Matt: Thank you Loot Crate for supporting us and being so awesome, being a fantastic sponsor, and yeah, I guess, is it Thursday yet? We'll see you guys in a couple weeks.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Announcer: Hi, guys! Let's give it up for Claudia for putting almost this whole thing together. So really quick, I just wanted to say very special thanks to you guys from me and Felicia. Doing these kind of events where we have this kind of community has been the number-one goal from Geek and Sundry. So again, thank you guys so much for coming. We're excited to have you; we're excited to keep doing this. So yeah, you're awesome. (cheering)
Announcer: All right, let's get down to it. First up, the man with the grog. Travis, come on out! (cheering and chanting "Grog")
Announcer: We got six more people, Travis. Come on. Fresh off the plane from New York City: Ashley Johnson! (cheering)
Ashley: Whoa! I'm a monstah! (cheering and chanting "Monster")
Announcer: Next up is Travis's better half Laura Bailey! (cheering and chanting "Vex")
Laura: This is amazing! What?!
Announcer: Your favorite druid Marisha Ray! (cheering and chanting "Keyleth")
Marisha: What?!
Announcer: And give it up for Taliesin! (cheering and chanting "Percy")
Announcer: And last but not least Sam Riegel! (cheering and chanting "Scanlan")
Announcer: All right, the man who brings it all to life with his amazing imagination: Matthew Mercer! (cheering and chanting "DM")
Laura: Should we sit?
Matt: Well, first and foremost, guys, I want to thank all of you for being here tonight, for what is already the craziest night of my life in a long time. And we haven't even started, really, which is nuts. I want to give a big thanks to the Dungeons and Dragons team and Wizards of the Coast for gifting us an awesome series of gift bundles that we'll be able to give out to some of you lucky winners here in the audience and some of you lucky folks at home, as well. There'll be information for that throughout the chat as those events arrive. And also, in that same vein, thank you to them for helping me and Chris come together and help make the event of Force Grey: Giant Hunters, a new series we've been working on, recently coming out. (cheering)
Matt: We have four episodes already out for that, if you haven't seen it yet. The fifth one comes out this week on Monday on Nerdist. And this will be introducing Brian Posehn's character; he'll finally be joining the campaign for that, and some crazy shit goes down, so don't miss it. Yeah, and I think we have one other cool announcement, if you guys want to take this one.
Announcer: Yeah, so we're really excited that this is Chris Pramas, from amazing Green Ronin, who did the Titansgrave book and series. And we're excited; that's been a labor of love for a long time, but we're able to announce that we will have a Critical Role campaign book coming out. (cheering)
Announcer: So Chris, you want to tell them about it?
Chris pramas: Hey! Try to get the energy up, people. This is exciting. Hey, I'm Chris Pramas. I'm the president of Green Ronin Publishing. You may know me from such things as season one of Tabletop and Titansgrave. And yeah, we're going to be publishing Critical Role RPG books. They'll be for 5th edition rules, and the awesomest part is that Matt is going to write them. (cheering)
Announcer: So you can look for that Q1 2017?
Chris pramas: Spring?
Announcer: Spring 2017. All right, well, I think that's it, so let's get started. Enjoy the show, everyone! (cheering)
Matt: So that's interesting. Yeah, as if I didn't have enough free time already, now I'm putting that together. But yeah, the first book is going to be a Tal'Dorei campaign setting, specifically within Exandria. And if that does well, hopefully we'll be able to extend that to other continents, like Issylra with Othanzia and Vasselheim, maybe Marquet and Wildemount; we shall see. But the first book I'm really excited about. It's a labor of love, and when that does come out next year, I hope you guys get a chance to enjoy that, so yay. (cheering)
Matt: So. As we've finished our announcements, I think it's time we go ahead and dive into our fantastical journey of Vox Machina in tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music] (cheering)
Matt: All right, enough of that. Bringing us into tonight's game of Critical Role. The last time we saw them, the group of adventurers Vox Machina had found themselves in the Feywild, intent on discovering another one of the Vestiges of Divergence, one of the many artifacts that they hope will aid them in their struggle against Thordak, the Cinder King, and the rest of the Chroma Conclave. Defeating two of the members, three still remain, Thordak being the seeming powerhouse head of that troop. So now, deep in the Feywild, a crazy alternate dimension in which fey creatures rule a landscape where up is down and everything is topsy-turvy and nothing is what it seems, they've made their way through the Moonbrush, parlayed with a group of lycanthropes-- werewolves, werebears, weretigers-- and a group of pixies and made a choice, the pixies now scattered and stapled to a number of trees in the forest. The leader of their troop, an extremely large, powerful werewolf lord named Ukurat, has pledged his aid to some degree in the near future, should you need it as you travel duskward past the Gilded Run, eventually to the source of where apparently this bow Fenthras exists in the Shademirk Bog. And now, we pick off where we last left off. The rest of you, after resting in the treetops on the outskirts of the duskward side of the Moonbrush, you've come to consciousness, gathered your things, escaped the forest, and headed northward, just beginning to see the cresting edge of the tangled river mass of the Gilded Run. And beyond that, the dark, ominous shadow: the Shademirk Bog. So before you guys press anywhere forward, is there any preparation you want to take on your adventure?
Laura: Straight-up prep? Oh jeez.
Matt: You're about to travel forward. What do you want to do?
Sam: Can you hear us? Yes? Are there any potion stores nearby? (laughter)
Matt: Roll an investigation check. No.
Sam: Ooh, 22.
Matt: Oh! You strongly recall information that inform you that the last bastion of true civilization is long past you, south of where you originally came from.
Sam: Well, then I will take a moment to limber up for the day. Stretch up. Yeah, just stretch up. Active squats.
Travis: Can I ask a question? Since I was obviously out of commission with the whole last fight that happened--
Laura: Your own fault, Grog!
Travis: It's not! I was being a politician. Is anybody hurt? Do we need to heal anybody before we go? Did these fireflies mess with any of you?
Taliesin: I think everyone's mostly fine.
Marisha: I think you were the only one who got the shitty end of that deal.
Travis: That's fucked up.
Sam: I will say that Vax looks a little weird.
Laura: Vax is just strange.
Matt: Vax turns to you and goes, "Yeah, I usually feel a bit that way. Quiet." As you guys are preparing for the morning, there's a strange sound like a simmering, high-pitched whine. Two or three times, you see these sudden bright flashes of light in your vicinity. And there's a burst of white light, as out stepping from it, you see the somewhat-corporeal, divine energy-based form of Pike Trickfoot. (cheering)
Laura: Oh my god!
Ashley: I'm back.
Sam: No! You are not supposed to trust anything in the Feywild. (laughter)
Ashley: I swear it's me!
Sam: There's only one way to find out. I run up and I kiss her. (laughter)
Ashley: That was a little fast, I think.
Sam: It's her.
Matt: Garmelie, at this point, watching this whole circumstance, walks up to you and goes, "It's good to see you again. I don't know where you went away last time, but I hope you enjoyed the last sketch I did. If you need any more, let me know. I got plenty of paper."
Ashley: Okay. What was that? Who were you?
Matt: You look down and see the small faun who you previously had commissioned to draw--
Ashley: Yes. I really love that piece that you did.
Matt: "Well, thank you kindly."
Ashley: You're so welcome.
Matt: "Let me know. Your form's closer to mine, so it's easy for me to get a full view." (laughter)
Travis: Whoa. (laughter)
Ashley: That's okay.
Travis: Snap. So are we going across the river, then?
Marisha: Wait, there's a river?
Matt: Make a perception check! (laughter)
Marisha: Really? Okay.
Matt: First roll of the night.
Travis: Ten.
Marisha: It's okay. 18.
Matt: 18, okay. Glancing ahead of you, you see the hint of the peak of an ominous mountain range slowly growing in the distance. At the base of that, you see a treacherous weave of powerful rivers rushing past, and around the exterior of the Shademirk Bog, these large heavy trenches of water jamming and folding into each other. You've heard of the Gilded Run, and you've seen a few stationary rivers in the past, but this is a cluster of perpetually rushing rapids that fill a rather sizeable period of the land surrounding the actual Shademirk Bog. And you can see just past it, the edge of the bog itself, these very dark, glistening, almost black oil-caked tree canopies that vanish into shadow beneath. But that's a couple of miles off.
Travis: But the rapids are right there?
Matt: You can see them maybe half a mile in front of you. And you can see the spray occasionally shooting off some of the rocks, and the shore of the river just barely shows the speed of the water passing by.
Laura: It's definitely not something we can wade across, I'm assuming.
Sam: We could fashion a crude canoe and go down it.
Marisha: Or I could part the sea. I'm going to take my staff, and I want to feel how deep it is.
Matt: Okay, so you decide to walk the half-mile to make it to the river?
Marisha: I thought we were there. It's a lot going on.
Sam: Let's walk the half-mile. It's a half-mile!
Marisha: And it looks like a long river?
Matt: It's a series of long rivers that completely wrap around the Shademirk. One side of it seems to be vanishing into the Green Sea, which you could barely see to the far seaward side of you, and it curves around the outside of the Shademirk and vanishes into the horizon.
Sam: It's a river.
Laura: It's a big river.
Taliesin: It looks like a river, at the very least. Don't trust anything in the Feywild!
Laura: Can I perception and see if there are any sort of creatures that are visible?
Matt: Do you want to get close to it first? You have a jaunty jog on your way towards the Gilded Run. A very short time passes before you begin to actually hear the waters in the distance. And as you begin to approach, about a hundred feet from the edge of the first stripe of river, and you can see some are tighter together, some are only a few feet between the rivers, some merge into even thicker roaring rapids. They're all traveling from the seaward side to the tangleward side. In layman's terms: west to east.
Taliesin: How far in does it take to cross all of these little rivers?
Matt: The rivers change in width. The smallest one you can see is maybe ten feet across. Some of them swell to upwards of 30, 40 feet, depending at which point you come across it.
Taliesin: What's the speed and roughness of the ten-foot?
Matt: They're all pretty matching in speed, and they're pretty hefty. You can see there are occasional rocks in the edges of water that are just spraying, causing the water to smash into the side and split off around it. There's nothing visible in the water drifting, through. Most of it is destroyed in the process of crashing against the rocks in the sides of the bank.
Taliesin: Let's find a nice mix of not-too-wide and not-too-rapidy. Not too fast.
Sam: And do what?
Taliesin: And start thinking of a way across it and making sure that it's not magical or strange.
Ashley: Could we fly?
Laura: I can.
Ashley: You can.
Laura: Brother, do you want to scout up ahead? Maybe fly up above the river and see down into the oily land? Both of us.
Matt: "Fine, I'll go ahead and give it a look, I suppose. Although you can fly any time you want, if you wish."
Laura: Yes, I can. And I do. I pick my broom up.
Matt: He seemingly ducks down into the grasses that you guys are standing in and vanishes, barely giving a small path as he disappears.
Laura: I float above him on the broom.
Matt: Occasionally, you see him glance up and loudly grumble.
Laura: You are so hidden right now. I can barely even see you. So hidden.
Matt: "I appreciate the backup, sister." And he keeps continuing forward. As you get to the edge of the water itself, he looks inside. It's pretty clear, the water, as you can see the bottom of it right there. You can see a deep-set blanket of greenish-brown algae-type plant life that cakes the bottom of the river floor, the occasional stone protruding from it and everything is growing and pushed around it. He releases his raven wings from his armor, which shoot out in a large 15-foot wingspan on each side. He jumps in the air, makes his way over the first short river, and lands on the other side.
Laura: Oh, okay. I fly up and I stay above him. I don't want to land on the ground.
Matt: Okay. Glance over. His wings fold behind him and he's like, "Was it so hard, sister? Really?"
Laura: You wasted your entire hour of flying for that? (laughter and applause)
Matt: (sighs)
Laura: Oh, I got a Vax sigh. I like it.
Matt: He scoots underneath your broom, as you're hovering on, and one of his wings catches the edge of it, flicks, and then tries to knock you off your broom. Make a quick strength check.
Laura: A what check?
Matt: Strength, my dear.
Laura: Oh, I got a natural one. (laughter)
Laura: If you just killed me--
Matt: As the edge of his wings smack the back side of the broom, it spins out from under you, and for a moment, you grasp the edge of the front of the broom, and it slips from your fingers. You flick off, tumble to ground about ten feet. Not too far. You take one point of damage from the impact; nothing huge. But as you roll to the side, your broom scatters across the stones and dips partially into the river, which begins carrying it slowly--
Laura: No! And I crawl over and grab it.
Matt: Okay. You grab it and pull it out. As you turn back over, your brother's sitting there with his arms crossed, his wings still folded, smiling.
Laura: I swing around and hit him with the broom.
Matt: Make an attack roll. This is not with your bow, by the way. This is just adding your proficiency bonus. You're not even proficient. This is an improvised weapon, so you have disadvantage. Go ahead and roll again.
Laura: Disadvantage? Aw, come on. That was so much better than the first one.
Matt: You're not proficient, really, in attacking with brooms.
Laura: 13.
Matt: 13? With but an instant of reaction time, it passes a good solid foot and a half in front of his face. His wings furl. A couple of feathers dangle down, and he turns around and decides to hop over the next bit of the river.
Laura: I hate you sometimes.
Matt: "I know, sister." As he takes off.
Laura: All right, I get on my broom and fly after him, like a loser.
Matt: Any of you guys also doing anything, or are you just watching them scouting ahead?
Travis: We're just watching them fly around.
Matt: As you scoot up to catch up to your brother, he's probably a good 15 feet ahead of you--
Laura: Yay, we're back.
Ashley: That was such a busy desktop.
Matt: As you hop up after him, you notice his wings go into a dive, and he ends up curving downward at an alarming rate, diving right into the river.
Laura: Can I float down and try to grab him?
Matt: I need you to make a wisdom saving throw.
Laura: A wisdom saving throw? Shit, balls, mother-- that's bad: nine.
Matt: As soon as you see your brother dive into the water, you begin to coast downward. As you do, there's an impulse in your head that begins pushing and steering the broom lower, lower. And even in the back of your head, you sense this is bad; we're going far too steep. It's like you're outside of your physical body. The control has alleviated itself, and your body forces you to splash into the river, as well, both of you guys submerging yourself in the raging rapids. You guys see this in the distance, with a splash of two impacts on the riverside.
Travis: Did we tell them to go fishing?
Marisha: I don't think we did.
Laura: Can we try to get out? Can we try to get out of the water?
Marisha: Okay, let's go save our friends.
Matt: There is a ten-foot river for you guys to traverse first, before you get to them. Each of you who are trying to leap across, make an athletics check.
Marisha: I didn't say I was trying to leap across.
Matt: I said anyone who wants to try.
Travis: You want to hop on the-- (laughter)
Sam: I don't follow. I'll jump on. All right, Grog's got two gnomes on his back.
Matt: Grog's got two gnomes on his back. Of course he does; that's perfect.
Laura: Help. Right here. Are we underwater, or are we on top of the water? We're just dying.
Matt: Two gnomes on Grog's back. You grab both of them, do a quick sprint and leap, as heavy as you can. Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Travis: I rolled a 25.
Laura: Oh, that's good. That's way better.
Matt: Much like how Hulk escapes a fray, you watch as Grog bounds into the air in a large arc, slamming into the other side, causing the stones on the outskirts of the riverbed to crack beneath him. You stand back up, proud of yourself. Pike and Scanlan, you're a little jostled from the impact.
Ashley: That was so fun.
Travis: I know, right?
Sam: I think I landed on my keys!
Taliesin: And I rolled a nine.
Matt: You smile as you hear a splash behind you. Percival getting right up to the edge and leaping, as his foot catches the stone and goes right into the smaller rapid, being carried, as well. Keyleth?
Marisha: The people who are in the water, are they being dragged under? We can just not see them anymore?
Matt: If you take a moment to watch--
Marisha: Yeah, Percy? Percy?
Taliesin: I think I'm fine. I'm just wet.
Sam: Is he being carried away?
Matt: The three who've been pulled under the river-- that includes you, Vex'ahlia, Vax'ildan, and Percy-- I need you to make a constitution check.
Laura: Constitution?!
Marisha: Why does everything here hate us?
Laura: Ugh! Oh Jesus! Six.
Travis: You're going to die live.
Taliesin: Ten.
Laura: Why am I rolling so bad right now?
Matt: 14. Okay, you manage to pull yourself up to the surface and you almost get to the point of actually getting some air, and a force pulls you back under.
Marisha: Percy! Aw. (laughter)
Matt: However, Percy, you do maintain the breath in your lungs. You and your brother both (coughs) give away a bulk of the air, and you feel yourself in the beginning spasms of drowning.
Laura: Can I cast Grasping Vine from the side of the river and try to catch myself?
Matt: You know what? Yes, you can. In the aspects of this sequence though, it is a difficult job to cast this. Is it a concentration check or not?
Laura: I don't know!
Marisha: Grasping Vine is a bonus action, yo!
Matt: But is it a concentration spell? That is the difference.
Laura: I don't have my card because we're traveling.
Sam: Matt, how far are they from me?
Matt: From you guys out there, they're maybe 25 feet from you.
Marisha: Wait. No, it is. Sorry.
Matt: That's all right. So I need you to roll another constitution check, if you could.
Travis: Roll better.
Laura: I'm scared of all my dice.
Travis: It's because you have a hundred of them.
Laura: No, that's good! 19.
Matt: Okay, so yes. As the rapids are rushing by, you open your eyes, and the sting of the very high-powered water hitting your eyeballs causes you to have a hard time even seeing what's up and down. As you glance up to where the little bit of light from the ever-dusk sky of the Feywild pulls your attention, you put your hand out, and using that burst of ranger magical energy, you watch as the undergrowth of the river itself stretch out and form this strange, slimy mass of vine that wraps around you and yanks you out of the water surface, slamming onto the ground just outside of the river. (applause)
Laura: That's my broom that I'm holding up in my hand right now.
Marisha: So the river doesn't hate magic?
Laura: I don't know.
Marisha: All right.
Laura: Where's my brother? Where's Vax?
Marisha: I'm going to cast Control Water. Where do I see Percy? Is Percy and Vax together?
Matt: No, Vax is in the next river over. Percy is about maybe 20 feet from you, but is quickly being rushed down the river.
Marisha: Vax is? Or Percy?
Matt: Percy.
Marisha: Okay, so first, I'm going to Control Water. I'm going to stop the flow of current and see if I can get it to burp out Percy.
Matt: Okay. Just pat it.
Marisha: I'm going to burp the river.
Matt: (shushing) It's okay, Gilded Run. It's okay. All right, perfect. So you see this influx and see Vex get thrown out of the river. You see Percy's hand get pulled back under as the river pulls him along at a very fast speed. You concentrate, and as you put your fingers forward, you see the rapid river begin to slow down at a certain point, and it's almost like an invisible dam gets held up as the waters continue to flow out and carry him a little bit further. It slowly descends to leave him on an empty bank of water as the rest of it slowly seeps to a much lower level. You catch your breath, Percy. However, I need you to make a wisdom check, as this is a very powerful, magically-enforced river, and it's currently combating the strength of your spell. This is Keyleth. She's making a wisdom check.
Marisha: No, okay. Yeah. Wait, what? Just a straight wisdom?
Laura: Oh no! (laughter)
Marisha: I just spent a lot of money on these dice today!
Sam: Wait. Hold on. I've got this. Quick, everyone. What's that over there? There.
Marisha: Oh, a 15.
Laura: Was it a one?
Marisha: I rolled a one.
Travis: You did?
Taliesin: Wow.
Matt: All right, feeling confident in your druidic ways, but unfortunately not yet undergone the formal training of the water Ashari, the actual forceful wave of the river begins to push back your control over that being, and then cascades down, picking Percy, once again, back up an additional 30 feet down the stream. You are at the surface at the moment, though. You are not considered drowning. You're not drowning. Your brother, not doing so hot.
Laura: Can I send the vine to him?
Matt: Well, before we get to that, the three of you guys now get to act.
Sam: I'm going to step forward and inspire myself. (cheering)
Sam: I sing to myself  (singing) Scanlan Shorthalt. I'm a gnome. My name is Scanlan Shorthalt. I'm a gnome. There's a million chicks I haven't boned, but just you wait--
All: (singing) Just you wait. (cheering)
Matt: Fine, you go and take your inspiration die.
Sam: And then I will cast Bigby's Hand. Bigby's Hand! Because we're in a symphony hall. And I'm going to grab Vax and toss him out of the river.
Matt: Okay, taking Bigby's Hand. I need you to make a strength check for Bigby's Hand, if you could.
Sam: What does he get? What does Bigby get? I'm going. It's a different guy. He's a whole guy, who's not quite as handsome as me.
Matt: Add a plus eight to it.
Sam: Okay. 25.
Matt: 25. You watch as Bigby's Hand plunges into the river itself, vanishes for a few moments, and then like a reverse cannonball out of the water, coming curving around and at an incredible speed, looks like it's about to spike Vax onto the water's edge before slowing down and limply dropping him on the edge of the bank front.
Sam: I give him a little pat on the head.
Matt: Which is good, because the pat actually forces the water out of his lungs. (coughing and panting) "No flight."
Marisha: Grog.
Travis: Yeah?
Marisha: Grab Percy.
Travis: Yes, me?
Marisha: Grab Percy.
Travis: I take the Alchemy Jug, and I turn it upside down like diving bell, and I put it over my head. (cheering and applause)
Travis: I take the Chain of Returning, and I wrap it around my waist. And I hand the other end to Pike because she's got the ogre gauntlets. And I wade into the river to go get Percy. (cheering)
Matt: Okay, I'll say it is your turn, because he move quite a bit down the river, but you have a pretty high movement rate as a barbarian, so you tie the chain around yourself at your full movement speed, and you get to the very edge of the bank and begin to wade in just as you pull the jar over your head. And that's going to be the end of your action there. Pike, you're holding him at the edge. I need you to make a strength check, if you could.
Ashley: I got you, buddy.
Travis: Come on, Monstah.
Ashley: Oh wait. Hold on. Where did it go? I'm sorry, I forgot how to play.
Matt: I believe it's a plus four.
Ashley: 18?
Matt: 18. Without an issue, you watch as this giant anchor of a man is being held solid by this tiny rock of a gnomish cleric.
Ashley: Yes! (cheering)
Ashley: Go get him, Grog!
Travis: (muffled) Okay.
Matt: You watch as her teeth bite down, and her tongue sticks out the edge as she digs her feet into the bottom of the river rock. Percy, you see a dark form in the river as you're rushing past. I need you to make a perception check with disadvantage, as you're being drawn underwater.
Taliesin: Perception check with disadvantage?
Matt: This is a perception check with disadvantage.
Taliesin: That's not that bad. Where's my perception? There it is: 14.
Matt: 14, okay. Just as you see this strange dark form appear out of the way, you instinctively sweep your hand out, and you smack and catch the edge of Grog's pants.
Sam: He has pants? (laughter)
Matt: At the hip. And you catch it. Grog, you see the hand emerge, and you catch the edge of it and pull him up out of the river. He's now out. Caught his breath; he's no longer beneath the surface. You guys are still being pulled, now, by the water. Your feet are beginning to fall out from under you as the rocks that are holding you up are being pulled along by the force of the river. It seems the longer you're in the river, the stronger it's getting.
Travis: Oh shit. Pike! Pull! I got him!
Matt: I need you to roll another strength check, Pike, as you pull them in. There is a little more weight on there, so the DC's going to be a little higher. Go ahead and roll.
Travis: 21.
Sam: Can I quickly inspire her?
Matt: If you want to, yeah.
Sam: Yes. I turn to her and I sing  (singing) Repairing up your heart when she heals you! And when you are a bard, you feel it, too! And no matter what you do, she heals the pain, and she's pretty, too!
Travis: I love you for doing *NSYNC.
Marisha: Ten-sider!
Laura: She did a ten-sider.
Matt: She's taking it now, so roll a strength check and add.
Ashley: Oh, it's the same. Or is that this way?
Travis: That's a nine.
Laura: That's good. That's better!
Ashley: 15?
Sam: With my dice?
Ashley: Yes. I originally rolled a two.
Matt: Even with the fantastic rhymes of Scanlan's voice ringing in your ears, and you're holding tight, you feel your heels begin to scrape as the river rush is pulling you now towards the river. Grog and Percy, you feel yourselves being brought deeper into the center of the river.
Marisha: Can I try again with the current? It's a concentration spell up to ten minutes.
Matt: Yeah, you do. So coming back to Keyleth, at this point.
Marisha: Even the water's angry! (screams)
Matt: Keyleth, I'd like you to make another wisdom check, if you could.
Travis: Roll good!
Marisha: Okay, that's better. Straight wisdom? A saving throw or just a check?
Matt: Just a check.
Marisha: 16.
Matt: 16. That's better. As you guys are being swept away, you feel the current begin to subside slowly, and Pike, once again, you get your ankles dug in. You begin to pull on this, and between the two of you and the concentration of Keyleth, you manage to wrestle Grog and Percy's forms out of the river onto the bank. Now you guys are between the two. (cheering)
Sam: You guys, we defeated a creek.
Taliesin: We didn't actually even defeat it.
Marisha: No, we haven't even gotten started. There's like 50 more creeks in front of us.
Laura: Me and Vax are on one side, and everyone else is on the other, then?
Matt: Yes. There are a couple of small trees that are planted or grown up between the river banks, and you can still hear the rapids rushing past.
Sam: How many more rivers would we have to cross?
Matt: Looking ahead of you, there's probably 12.
Travis: Let's just go home. Fuck it.
Taliesin: That was very clever with the pot, by the way.
Travis: Yeah, right? I figured if anything was going to hit me in the head, it would hit the jug first.
Taliesin: That was less clever, but still very impressive. What if we were to throw your chain, or if we could throw the rope across the river?
Laura: Actually, I'm going to use my earring so I don't have to shout.
Taliesin: Yeah, no, that's better.
Laura: I feel like when I was crossing the river, I wanted to kill myself. And I'm afraid that anybody else crossing the river--
Taliesin: No, Vax has already crossed. We're not going to feel the angst coming off of him.
Matt: The experience, when you were trying to cross over, was reminiscent of that urge to jump whenever you're near the edge. That weird, very base impulse whenever you get to a point of danger that says, do it! It's like that being triggered and preyed upon.
Marisha: It's a river of impulses? Such an allegory for so many things.
Taliesin: Here's a thought. We take the rope, we tie ourselves to it, we toss it over to the two of you, we start using it to wade, you help pull us over. Everybody would have to be terrible for everything to go. Everybody will be fighting together to get across.
Ashley: We can attach the rope to the Immovable Rod. Just put it in the ground.
Laura: I think I have it. I thought Grog had it, but I think I might have picked it up after.
Taliesin: As long as we're tied together, we can only go so far. It'll be like mountain climbing.
Sam: But that just gets us across one, right?
Taliesin: I think they're across two.
Travis: How wide's the second river between us and Vax?
Matt: It would take you guys about 20 feet across.
Taliesin: That's good. 20 feet across.
Sam: No, there's ten more rivers!
Laura: There's so many rivers!
Sam: Can we become mist form? Are our minds affected when we're mist form?
Taliesin: Yes. I'm sure.
Laura: Is it? Are we?
Marisha: I didn't learn mist form today.
Travis: Fucking hell.
Ashley: What if we made a boat and then floated down the river?
Travis: They're rapids.
Ashley: That sounds like a terrible idea, by the look of his face.
Marisha: Does it look like all the rivers are connected?
Matt: It looks like some of them swell between each other and then split off again. Some are solitary, from your current position that you can see, but you only have what's immediately near you to really see. Since some of these are hills, and it carves into part of these hills, you don't have a complete view of how they intertwine and merge beyond the immediate hillsides.
Laura: Hey, Garmelie!
Sam: Yeah, where's he?
Matt: He's back on the other side.
Laura: Hi!
Matt: "Some help, please?"
Laura: Have you heard any stories about how people crossed these damn rivers before?
Matt: "I told you I've heard about this land. I haven't actually been here."
Laura: I know! So tell me what you've heard!
Matt: "It's dangerous, and it keeps the Shademirk from spreading!"
Laura: Cool.
Travis: Garmelie! Hop in the river!
Matt: "No!"
Sam: Has my minute of Hand worn off yet?
Matt: I'd say it's getting towards the end.
Sam: All right. I'm going to take Garmelie and throw him across as many rivers as I can. (cheering)
Matt: Make a strength check.
Sam: 25 again.
Matt: Being a small and relatively light-weight fey creature, but also smug in a standing position after proclaiming his negative approach to Grog's idea, he doesn't quite notice the spiraling purple hand that swings up from behind, grasping him and lifting him into the air with an incredible speed. All you hear is the distant (squeal) as the hand full-on fastball special chucks him. Arcing overhead. (distant scream, impact) A little plume of dust.
Laura: Did he make it? How far did he get?
Matt: He made it past five of them. (applause)
Matt: And also suffered 22 points of damage. There's a long, awkward pause as you see no movement.
Sam: Oh god. I think I just killed him.
Laura: Scanlan, you're such a dick!
Taliesin: That was a little harsh.
Matt: Which gets more and more awkward the longer it goes by, until eventually you see a shift and this small form rise up, raises a thumb... which quickly transitions into a middle finger. (cheering)
Marisha: He's fine!
Sam: He's doing great.
Travis: Scanlan, Keyleth, if I had magic, I would freeze all the water, so go ahead and do that.
Marisha: If Bigby's Hand had about ten seconds left, I've got about nine minutes left on this Control Water spell. Why don't we try and move as fast as possible along with the chain and maybe the Immovable Rod. Let's go. You guys go first. And I'm going to try and halt the flow.
Matt: Make a wisdom check, if you could.
Travis: Come on, you stupid opal dice!
Laura: Is that a natural 20?
Marisha: No, it's another fucking one! Useless!
Laura: Put it away, Keyleth. Put it away for the rest of the night.
Marisha: I spent so much money on these!
Travis: You've got to retire that bitch.
Matt: No! They just haven't been charged properly. (cackles)
Laura: Put it in its dice jail.
Taliesin: See? Better.
Marisha: Percy! Don't touch my dice, Percy!
Matt: So as you guys begin to prepare your attempt to cross the river, Keyleth concentrates. The river stalls for a moment, and then pushes past, seemingly unaffected. Mind you, the spell does seem to have an effect when you're having a better time concentrating, but it is a magical force versus a magical force, and you can see it actually angrily swells against the resistance. That's where the actual tension comes from. There is something living, like an entity that these rivers seem to almost mingle as.
Travis: Are there a bunch of trees?
Matt: There are a few sporadic trees scattered around, yes.
Travis: How tall are they?
Matt: They're not that tall. Some are maybe 15, 20 feet up. These trees specifically are a little more marsh-based. They're not quite swamp-based trees, but that's as tall as they get.
Travis: And the river's 20 feet wide, right?
Matt: No, these are maybe five feet wide.
Laura: Oh. Five feet. We could jump across them?
Matt: Oh, the rivers. Sorry. The trees are five feet wide. I misunderstood. Yes, the actual rivers are between ten to 20 feet.
Laura: Do you have Tree Stride?
Marisha: I do, but I can only cast that on myself.
Laura: I thought we could all use it, always?
Marisha: We can use mist form. Sorry. There's Teleport Via Plants, which I did not bring today.
Travis: What did you bring today?
Marisha: I brought Control Water, Grog!
Sam: Wait. The total distance from us to the end of the 12th river is how far?
Matt: Probably close to 150 feet?
Taliesin: We can do that in five minutes.
Sam: So I can make it with Pike super fast.
Laura: How?
Marisha: Dimension Door.
Sam: Yeah. But the rest of you are fucked.
Laura: No! This is really good! This is good, because with the Immovable Rod--
Sam: I can set it, forget it. Set it and forget it.
Laura: And then tie maybe the endless rope to it. And then you teleport back to the other side.
Travis: How's that going to work?
Laura: I don't know.
Ashley: Wait. If we Dimension Door, what if you turn into an animal to fly, and then you have a broom, and someone can ride on your broom?
Marisha: I could potentially turn us into animals that can swim, which is why I was wondering if the rivers were connected. Maybe we can jump like salmon, going upstream?
Sam: Don't tell Trinket!
Laura: Trinket is safe in this necklace right now.
Travis: Can you raise earth? Can you make a dam?
Marisha: I can, and I did bring Move Earth, as well as Wall of Stone. To be totally honest, I am terrified of messing with the ground. I'm afraid if I move the earth, it will eat me. It will split open and swallow me. I could try it.
Laura: Wait, did I hear right that these rivers are alive? What did I hear?
Marisha: They're magical rivers.
Travis: I'm going to chop down a tree.
Laura: You're going to chop down a tree? Grog, Keyleth picked a flower and the entire world ended.
Travis: We are getting nowhere, super fast.
Taliesin: Easy plan. Easy peasy. Teleport with the Immovable Rod. You shoot one end of the rope to him.
Laura: Oh, why didn't I think of that?
Taliesin: Everything's easy peasy.
Marisha: Why didn't we think of that?
Sam: Okay. Give me the rod. You take the eternal string or whatever it's called.
Laura: I have the eternal string, and I have the rod.
Travis: Can I walk over to a tree just in case their plan fails? I want to start chopping.
Matt: You go up to one of the nearby trees at the edge, and you can see across the way, it looks like there's part of a crumpled stone corner, some long dilapidated ruin. You can see what looks to be one dried tree log that has fallen over and rotting on the other side. But there is one tree right on the edge of the bank that you guys are on that leads across this next river that is pretty solid looking. Maybe four feet in thickness there and 25 feet.
Laura: Don't do it, Grog! Do not do it yet!
Travis: I hope your stupid plan works!
Marisha: Hey, Grog. Remember when we almost died because I picked a flower? Just throwing it out there.
Travis: I'm super bored, so do your plan.
Laura: I'm going to start tying the rope to an arrow.
Matt: You're tying the rope to an arrow. Okay. You have, at this point, a good seven minutes left.
Marisha: Of the Control Water? All right. Let's do this.
Laura: All right. Are you going to teleport, and then we're going to try to do that?
Sam: Sure, let's do it.
Laura: So you teleport first. I'll shoot the arrow, see if I can actually get it to stick over there, and then you can do the...
Sam: Okay. Pike, you with me? Hand in hand?
Ashley: Hand in hand.
Sam: Here we go. I Dimension Door us across the river, if it works.
Matt: Okay. As you guys grasp hands, both of them vanish in a swirl of purplish-pink smoke. You see, simultaneously, across all the banks, right at the edge of the Shademirk, this little burst of energy. You guys land on the ground immediately, your feet sinking about three inches into this black sludge-like tar material. Already, you can smell the outskirts of the Shademirk. It's a very sulfurous decay smell that permeates the ground by you, and you can see it seeping into the river like a slow-moving morass of syrup, and the water carries it away upstream, like an angry force of cleaning. It's a little sludgy where you stand, but you guys are across.
Sam: All right. Hey! Shoot an arrow at me!
Laura: All right, I shoot an arrow! Not directly at him, but pretty close to him.
Sam: That's a long shot.
Laura: I have a really long-- I'm just going to shoot a couple arrows just to be sure.
Sam: I instinctively cover my neck.
Laura: 17.
Matt: 17. What did you roll?
Laura: A five.
Matt: Okay, just making sure. Because ones are always fun for situations like this. All right. You fire the arrow. It goes a little wide while you're aiming in the proximity of Scanlan and arc off and staples to one of the outside trees, sticking in it. The rope goes lax and begins to be carried in the water, and you can see the tension as the river itself seems to be trying to pull the rope underneath the rapids.
Laura: I hold the other side of the rope.
Matt: Okay, you begin pulling it up, and it's hard to pull up. The actual river is almost pulling the rope under itself.
Taliesin: I grab it, too.
Matt: All right. I need both of you guys to make strength checks together.
Marisha: Can I try and stop the current once again?
Matt: What's the range on Control Water?
Marisha: 300 feet.
Matt: Yeah you can do that.
Marisha: Okay. Calm, waters, calm.
Laura: And hook it to the Immovable Rod there.
Sam: Oh yeah! I forgot that whole part of the plan.
Marisha: Oh my god.
Taliesin: What are you doing?
Ashley: No!
Laura: You can't use it anymore. You're not allowed to use that dice anymore.
Travis: Just throw it offstage. Just throw it.
Marisha: I am not giving you all that dice! (laughter)
Travis: Say it. What was it?
Matt: I'm assuming it's a low roll.
Marisha: It's a fucking one! For the third time in a row!
Matt: All right, so what did you guys roll for your strength checks?
Laura: Oh, for strength checks I rolled...
Matt: As there has been no druidic aid, unfortunately, in this particular moment.
Sam: Pike, do you know any sailor's knots?
Ashley: I sure do!
Sam: Can you tie a sailor knot around this Immovable Rod?
Ashley: I sure can!
Sam: Which one?
Ashley: The swirley-whirley. (laughter)
Matt: As the two of you rush over the 30 feet to the tree that the rope is stapled to right now, it's taut and you can see it's starting to break the arrow as the strength of the rope being pulled into the river.
Laura: Percy, what did you roll for strength?
Taliesin: Oh, that's good. I rolled a ten. I'm not that strong!
Laura: We are so weak!
Ashley: We are doing so great!
Matt: Between the two of you guys, you manage to slowly pull it out of most of the rapids. It's still being dragged by one. It takes you another minute or so, but you manage to get the rope entirely taut against the edge of the arrow. Pike, you catch the actual rope on the other side before the arrow snaps and carries it back by the strength of their pull. So you take it and you make a little knot. Tie it strong from your experience as a sailor to the Immovable Rod, and it is solid and in place.
Taliesin: So I tie the rope to myself.
Laura: Yeah, we should each tie the rope to all of us.
Travis: What?
Laura: Grog, you're on the end there with the rope.
Travis: Nope. I'm going to cut down this fucking tree.
Laura: No, Grog!
Travis: All right, fine. I'll help.
Taliesin: We're going to tie a rope to you.
Travis: Around me?
Laura: Around all of us, yeah. So Keyleth, too, you get a rope, as well. You get a rope! You get a rope!
Marisha: We all get ropes!
Taliesin: You should be in front, and then the rest of us.
Laura: Oh, okay, sure.
Sam: Don't forget Vax.
Laura: And Vax, of course. Obviously, my brother, who is standing right here very stealthily.
Matt: He looks to you and his wings (whoosh). He lets them dissipate, as they're not going to be much of a help in this moment. "If I'm going to be tied to the rope, I want to be tied close to you, at least." He shimmies over. You're all tying yourselves like a daisy chain?
Laura: You know, like you do.
Matt: All right. Once you've all affixed it, what is the order in which you guys are affixed? I'm just curious!
Travis: I'll be in the front.
Laura: It's Grog, then Percy.
Taliesin: Vax, Vex.
Laura: Keyleth.
Sam: And then leave a little slack for Garmelie at the end.
Laura: Oh, right, because we've got to pick him up on the way through.
Matt: He's in between the two of you guys right now. He's waiting.
Laura: We're on our way to you, Garmelie. Don't worry!
Matt: "Good!" He looks over his shoulder at Scanlan and goes, "Good." All right, you guys all begin to pull yourselves forward on the rope, taking your time to make sure that if anything bad happens, you take a moment to pause and help out your friends. I need everyone who's on the edge of that rope to make a general athletics check.
Laura: Everybody holding on to the rope?
Matt: Everybody who's currently tied onto the rope, so not the gnomes.
Laura: Athletics?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: 20.
Marisha: That's acceptable.
Taliesin: 13.
Laura: Are we in any kind of favored terrain right now?
Taliesin: Only for Aquaman is this favored terrain.
Matt: I'm going to say no.
Laura: Okay, cool. 11 there, with the dice and the adding.
Matt: So that's 20. What did you get?
Marisha: 22.
Matt: 22, okay.
Ashley: Making a comeback!
Matt: You guys begin to pull yourselves forward. The two half-elf twins, in their physical waif-like state, begin to find themselves being carried hard down the first, second, and third progressive rivers as you guys pull through, but you manage to make up the slack and get them back on the land each time. It slowed down your progress. You only have three more minutes on your spell.
Marisha: Keyleth's got angry tears of frustration in the back as she's trying to control the water. Runny eyeliner, like it's 2001.
Matt: All right. You manage to make it across the next six or so rivers. You get to where Garmelie is, who's sitting there tapping his little hoof impatiently.
Laura: Tie yourself on, there, Garmelie.
Matt: He looks up at the rope, which is basically head level. "Give me some slack!"
Laura: (grunts)
Matt: "Thanks." He wraps it around his midsection, ties it up, and it's uncomfortably tight because as soon as you start moving it pulls on his midsection. When it's pulled taut, because of his size, he's actually lifted up between you guys, so his feet dangle, and he's top-heavy in how it tied, so he rotates. His feet are in the air. (cheering)
Matt: You bring yourself over to the eighth, the ninth river finally traversed. A few other scary moments. Keyleth, I want you to make a wisdom check again to see if you can aid this next length.
Marisha: Fuck you, no. It's a 19! Total 19.
Matt: Harnessing the inspiration of frustration at your recent failures to control the elements that you've been so hoping to learn to bring to your beck and call, you look forward at what would be the third-to-last river in your progress forward, and angrily do this with your hands. You guys watch as the river, like a paper, is torn asunder, the water held at bay.
Marisha: I'm sorry!
Taliesin: You're great! Run!
Marisha: Just go!
Matt: You guys run down the bank, stepping over. As you start to reach the other side of the bank, Grog, your heavy foot hits something that seems to react to the impact of your weight.
Sam: Like a thing? Like a person?
Matt: You guys make your way up the edge of the river. As you glance over the side, you see something in the mud vanish beneath.
Travis: I stepped on a catfish.
Ashley: Let's eat it.
Laura: Get up and out. Up and out.
Matt: As you guys all get across, the water slams back, continuing to flow with the river. Angrily, it roars and seems to almost swell up over the bank where it once was before it slowly descends back to its natural rushing rapids.
Marisha: That's a really big catfish.
Matt: There are two more rivers now ahead of you. There's one right before you, and then the one that separates you from Scanlan and Pike.
Sam: Are they multiplying? Oh no, it's because we got them wet!
Matt: There were roughly 12 ahead of you when you asked. You guys have now traversed nine of them, ten of them, so there's only two left at this point. Keyleth.
Taliesin: I believe in you.
Marisha: I didn't mean to do that. I was really nervous. But it's an 18, so 25. You know what, Percy? So I'm going to talk. I'm going to be like: Look, river. I'm your friend. I don't want any tension between us. I'm just trying to make it across you, you know?
Matt: The actual near-growl of the rapids begins to slowly subside in the river before you as the water sinks down into a slower, more gentle pace. You can see it building up and backing up behind you as the river here comes to a soft, cool dip that you guys can begin to walk through as well.
Marisha: Good river. Good boy.
Travis: Can I keep an eye out for whatever I stepped on in the river?
Matt: Yeah, make a perception check.
Travis: Six!
Matt: Grog, being in the front of the troupe, as the river is slowly separated for this, you step down into the mud, and you don't notice a similar shift curl up behind you as suddenly a rapid (whoosh). A set of gargantuan, long tooth-filled jaws come pouring out of the mud underneath the bank, snapping towards your large half-giant form. (evil chuckle) It has begun. That is a 22 to hit. I believe that hits your armor class.
Travis: That'll hit.
Matt: All righty. Getting ready for the first real attack damage of tonight's episode.
Laura: How come we never noticed the battle map has a river on it? Oh no!
Matt: You suffer 27 points of piercing damage. (groaning, laughter)
Matt: You, Grog, are suddenly grappled. The jaws have latched onto your midsection and hold you. You guys look ahead as you see this form, this spray of dark grimy mud and river-bottom muck gets flung into the air. You see what looks to be a far larger than you've ever seen before crocodile-like entity has come bursting out from under the river. You see the sheer force of the impact pushes him forward and carries him onto the other side of the river, in doing so, dragging all of you behind him at a rapid pace.
Travis: We're across!
Matt: Most of you go flying in an arc at the sheer force of this impact. I need you guys to make acrobatics checks to try to stop yourselves.
Travis: It's not a catfish!
Marisha: Acrobatics or athletics?
Matt: Acrobatics.
Taliesin: That's my jam. 27.
Marisha: 15.
Laura: 28.
Travis: 21.
Matt: All right, and your brother does well. Of course he does. You guys all manage to catch yourselves right now, still attached by the rope as you now see this heaping 15- to 20-foot-long giant barrel of muscle, green scaled skin, but what looks to be hundreds of tiny roots that spread from the center of its midsection, reaching into the ground. As it begins to move forward, it's actually rooting and uprooting itself as it moves. You can see the moisture and the life force of the land is pulsing into its form as it holds Grog in its jaws. I need you all to roll initiative. (cheering)
Sam: Wait, where are we? Where are the gnomes?
Matt: You guys are way over here on the edge.
Laura: Oh no! Wait, where are we? I don't see us at all.
Sam: Oh no, we have to go back!
Taliesin: To the future!
Matt: Please remind me the marching order again. If I recall, it was Grog...
Taliesin: Me.
Matt: Grog, Percy. Thank you.
Travis: Garmelie was in the middle somewhere.
Laura: I think he was between me and Vax.
Matt: Garmelie was between the two of you guys, yeah.
Taliesin: It was Vax, Garmelie, Vex, Keyleth.
Matt: Perfect.
Taliesin: Don't say that. That's not cool.
Matt: You get to see a little behind the field there.
Taliesin: I haven't seen that river in two years. It's so nice.
Sam: Pikey pants, what should we do? We should go help them, right?
Ashley: I don't know.
Sam: I mean, this mud is nice.
Ashley: But I did roll shit initiative, as usual.
Matt: There he is. There's Garmelie. Great.
Taliesin: That was terrible initiative. I am embarrassed by my initiative.
Laura: My initiative is really bad, as well.
Sam: This is crazy.
Matt: So top of the round, we have initiative of 25 to 20?
Marisha: 20. Shut up, really?
Laura: Go, Keyleth!
Marisha: I don't think that's ever happened before. That's never happened.
Matt: All right, so Keyleth, a 20. 20 to 15, anyone?
Travis: 18.
Matt: All right. 15 to ten?
Taliesin: 13.
Laura: 14.
Travis: This is our first live initiative.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah, because it didn't happen last time!
Travis: We're all going to die.
Matt: Scanlan and Pike, what did you guys get?
Ashley: I rolled a big fat six.
Sam: I got a four!
Matt: The gnomes bringing up the rear.
Sam: We were caught off-guard by this whole thing. She was teaching me the swirley-whirley while this was all going on.
Ashley: That's exactly what was happening.
Matt: All right, so Keyleth, you're up first. You watch as this giant mass of a creature is now clutching Grog in its jaws, and you see its tail begin to whip up, and it's now guarding itself on all sides as the roots are dragging themselves into the earth around you.
Marisha: So it has roots. It appears to be plant-based?
Matt: Elements of it. As you get a closer look now, you can see parts of its scaly hide emerge into leaf-like protrusions. It is a strange mixture of both giant croc and some sort of a plant-based entity.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to go a little risky here. I'm going to cast Speak With Plants.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Look at Mercer's face.
Marisha: Dumb idea, yeah.
Taliesin: He's thinking an alligator voice is going to hurt a lot. That's what he's thinking.
Matt: This is a perfect Keyleth moment. So Speak With Plants generally works with plants.
Marisha: Sure, but he appears to be fellow kin.
Laura: He's got roots, yo.
Matt: He does. However, in the purposes of this type of circumstance, it's usually meant for smaller plants that have no sentience that you can normally interact with, like roses and petunias.
Marisha: I've done this before with talking to the treant.
Matt: You can probably communicate with it, yes. I'm saying, issuing commands on this might be a little more difficult for the rest of the spells.
Marisha: What if I cast at a higher level? Would that help?
Matt: This is not a spell that can be cast at a higher level, unfortunately. So what do you want to do? You're casting Speak With Plants.
Marisha: Well, I cast it, so I'm going to say Hey! You spit that out of your mouth right now, mister! (laughter)
Marisha: You don't know where that's been! And trust me, I do.
Matt: Make an intimidation check. (cheering)
Laura: No! Don't do it!
Taliesin: (laughs)
Travis: No way. There's no fucking way.
Sam: In a way, it doubled in its level.
Laura: You do not touch that dice anymore.
Marisha: Seven.
Matt: As you shout this out, pointing at the large crocodile-like entity, you look deep into its beady black and purple eye that darts around in the sunken socket of its crocodile skull, and you can see it re-initiate its clutch on Grog, readjusting, pulling him even further into the jaw. Grog, you suffer another nine points of piercing damage.
Travis: I take what?
Matt: Another nine points of piercing damage.
Travis: Nine points!
Taliesin: Yeah, you haven't raged yet.
Matt: Sorry, Keyleth. Are you going to stay where you are?
Marisha: Where am I? Oh, I see where I am. Can I move towards that tree, away from the river that also wants to eat us?
Matt: Sure. You get that far before the rope on your midsection stops you.
Travis: Oh shit, we're all tied together!
Marisha: Okay, yeah. All right. Cool. Done. Go.
Matt: Grog, your turn.
Travis: Yeah. Where did he bite me, by the way?
Matt: He has you in his jaws by the midsection, and he's trying to turn you so you lose your footing, and you're getting pretty close right now. So he has you clamped right around your hip and chest right now. The nostril's right here, and the other half of the jaw is almost completely wrapped around the side.
Travis: I don't give a fuck! I go into a rage! (cheering)
Travis: Can I go into a frenzied rage?
Matt: Yes, you may.
Travis: And I use my bloodaxe, and I'm going to start whacking him in his stupid plant monster face.
Matt: All right, so you use your bonus action to go into the rage, and you have two attacks, so go for it.
Laura: Yeah, kill him, Grog. Kill him!
Travis: That's a 30.
Matt: That'll hit.
Travis: For the second one, it's a 21.
Matt: That also does hit, yes. Roll damage for both of those strikes.
Travis: So the first one is a 19, plus five points of necrotic damage for 24.
Matt: All right, 24 points of damage.
Travis: And the second one! Oh shit. That's 15, plus another five points of necrotic damage for 20.
Matt: 20 points. Fantastic. So you're slamming it as hard as you can with the axe in the side. You're jamming it into the side. You can see part of its jaw split open from the impact, and you can see a gleaming of white, slick bone beneath that begins to expose from where you slammed the sharp end of the axe into it twice in a row. It's (snarling) shaking you in its grasp once more.
Travis: I've always wanted to be a dog toy!
Taliesin: Uh. I feel like we're learning a lot.
Marisha: Have you told many people that?
Travis: Now I have.
Matt: Does that end your turn, Grog? All right. Next is the croc's turn. At the beginning of its turn, you watch as the wound you just left begins to slowly seal shut. You watch the roots protruding from its body begin to suck the water, moisture, and life force from the land around it, and it begins to heal itself slowly. So some of that damage goes away.
Sam: Goes away?
Matt: It begins to heal itself, healing from the ground it's rooted into.
Travis: I probably should have tried to break the grapple.
Laura: That would've been a smart move.
Travis: I haven't hit anything in forever.
Matt: Grog. 24. I believe that hits?
Travis: Yeah, that hits.
Matt: You guys watch as the crocodile backs this way slightly, which allows Vax and Garmelie to get an attack of opportunity. Vax does hit. Well, no, it could be sneak attack, although Grog technically right now is not threatening it.
Travis: Yeah, I am. I'm hitting it with a thing!
Laura: Garmelie is standing next to him, too.
Matt: I'll let it. Sure. The timing is pretty close on this, and you'll hear why in a second.
Sam: Seven more crocs appear.
Travis: I'm about to get jacked up.
Taliesin: We'll see.
Matt: 31 points of damage from Vax. Garmelie misses. He is awesome. So as it pulls away, you guys watch as the crocodile spins around in the direction of you guys, grabs and tugs Grog, throwing him up into the air. In doing so, all of you guys get pulled this way, and Keyleth dragged behind at that point. The jaws open, and Grog vanishes down the creature's gullet.
Ashley: No!
Taliesin: We're all still tied to him!
Laura: We're all attached to him, though!
Matt: You all got dragged right to the edge of its mouth, so right now, Percy, you have the rope right at the edge of its giant snapping jaws.
Travis: We're a big set of anal beads.
Taliesin: Can he roll for gag reflex? There's a rope coming out of his throat.
Matt: This creature's pretty profound at swallowing larger entities, so that's fine. (laughter)
Matt: Anyway. Grog, you're currently blinded and restrained.
Travis: Blinded and restrained?
Matt: Yeah. Things go to darkness. You now have a general idea of what Scanlan and Vax went through, oh but a few days ago.
Travis: (singing) Hello, darkness, my old friend!
Matt: Cool. Yeah, you are completely locked inside of it right there. It also spins around as it does so, and its tail (whiplash) whips out, and you see at the very tip of its tail what looks to be some sort of strange, jagged stinger. This is going to whip around in the direction of you, Vex.
Laura: Me?
Matt: That is going to be only a 14.
Laura: Oh, good. It misses.
Matt: Yeah. You duck under it as it scrapes across the ground, causing this huge section of the dirt to grind past, leaving a small trough behind. That's going to end its turn. It is now your turn, Vex.
Laura: Me? Okay. I am going to send Trinket out and attack it with Bestial Fury.
Matt: Trinket appears at the side of it suddenly, spawning out of this strange burst of shadow energy from the center of your necklace. (roars)
Laura: Trinket, attack the thing!
Matt: Trinket happily does so. He has advantage on both of these strikes. Go for it.
Laura: Can I use my dagger that's on me to try to cut the rope that is attached to my front?
Matt: You would have to pull a dagger out, and that would be a bonus action. So you can do that now, but you wouldn't be able to cut it until next turn.
Laura: Okay. Well, I'll attack with Trinket, and I'll pull my dagger out.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Okay, that's good. Wow, I never attack with him. How about that. 26!
Matt: Hits.
Laura: It does.
Matt: Yes.
Laura: So does he do the bite attack, or does he do the claw attack?
Matt: We'll say the first one will be the bite, and then the claw.
Laura: Okay, so now he's rolling for claws. Okay, so that's a 25 for the second one.
Matt: Both hit. Roll damage for each.
Laura: Okay. Oh Jesus, I'm so stupid! Okay, that's eight?
Matt: Eight?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Eight damage, all right.
Laura: And then, for the next one he gets two claws, and he's going to use his fours. Jeez Louise. Five plus seven is 13. No, 12.
Matt: Total of 20 points of damage as Trinket tears into the side of this giant gator-like creature.
Laura: That's good! And then I cast Hunter's Mark!
Matt: As you pull your dagger out, you're like, Hunter's-- damn it. But yeah, at the beginning of your next turn, trying to hack away at that rope; that's fine. That ends your turn, Vex, unless you want to try and move.
Laura: Can I try to fly up in the air? It won't do anything. I'm stuck on the ground.
Matt: Currently, yes. And you don't have your broom at the ready.
Laura: No, so I'll stay where I am, I guess. I'll continue to be flung around.
Matt: Perfect. Well done. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Oh boy. A lot of my plans got swallowed.
Travis: (muffled) Help me!
Taliesin: Okay. I'm going to pull out the Retort pistol, because Bad News will not be happy at this range. First thing I'm going to do is I'm going to take a head shot. I'm going to try and blind him for the round. This is going to go great!
Sam: Laura just quit the show.
Marisha: She couldn't do it anymore.
Taliesin: See, I'm too nervous to even take Sharpshooter, so we're just going to do this clean. And I roll a natural 20. Fuck it.
Matt: Hey, Percy. You are in melee with the creature. You have disadvantage on your ranged attack. Roll again. (groaning)
Sam: Such a stickler. (cheering)
Matt: Don't even try it.
Taliesin: The trick is not to care. It's good enough. 26.
Matt: Okay, that does hit.
Taliesin: Fuck, I forgot to cast Hex. Goddamn it. Can I throw my bonus in there really quick?
Sam: There's children in the audience.
Taliesin: They watch the show; they've heard me say worse. Can I sneak Hex in there?
Matt: I would say given the fact that you said specifically that you were too nervous to do Sharpshooter, you're also too nervous to remember your Hex, but you can finish your turn with that, if you'd like.
Taliesin: I can get it in between attacks. Technically not.
Matt: No, that's true. You can do it. I'll let you.
Taliesin: It's a bonus action. I'll do whatever you say. I'm not going to fight you. I'm trying to find my d10s. Okay, here we are. So that's 11 points of piercing damage.
Matt: All right. Marking that down. What's the save DC on that?
Taliesin: The save DC is a 19 on a constitution save.
Matt: That is a 12, so yes, it is currently blinded.
Taliesin: It's not blinded. It has disadvantage on attacks until my next turn.
Matt: There we go. And you are Hexing it, you said?
Taliesin: And now I'm Hexing. I'm going to give him a disadvantage on strength checks.
Matt: Okay, good to know.
Taliesin: Strength or constitution? I'm not asking. Why am I asking people? Asking is for quitters. Still at disadvantage because of the close proximity?
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: Is his mouth open?
Matt: The mouth is currently slightly open.
Taliesin: Am I close enough to start laying in a few shots inside?
Matt: Maybe. You can certainly try.
Taliesin: I'm going to lay in a couple shots inside. Two more shots inside with Hex attack.
Marisha: Hide behind his uvula, Grog!
Taliesin: I'm going to try and go for the sides. If I hit Grog, I don't care. He can take it. With disadvantage, that's a jam on the Retort pistol. Wait! No, that's a save reroll. Fuck my life. Okay, so that's a jam, and one to try and fix it really quickly, just trying to give it a clear, with not disadvantage, because it doesn't matter.
Matt: What did you roll as the jam?
Taliesin: One.
Matt: You rolled a natural one?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. Roll damage, anyway.
Taliesin: Roll damage, anyway?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: I hate you.
Matt: Without the Hex damage bonus.
Taliesin: That's ten points of damage.
Matt: Grog, you take ten points of piercing damage.
Taliesin: I don't have a jam?
Matt: But it does jam.
Taliesin: Okay, so I'm going to do a clear.
Matt: So as you go to fire, it splinters off, and there's a burst of smoke and the heat hurts your finger, and you hear this dull (impact) on the inside and a (grunt).
Taliesin: Sorry!
Travis: It's halved, right?
Matt: It's halved, yes.
Taliesin: One more shot.
Matt: This is to try and clear it, though. You still have to clear.
Taliesin: I tried to clear. It clears. I hit 16 plus--
Matt: Okay, yeah, so you manage to get it cleared and get it back and ready to go.
Taliesin: I don't have a third shot, but now I'm at least reloaded. Do I need another round to reload, or does that count as a reload, a clear? I can never remember.
Matt: Using it as an attack is a reload.
Taliesin: Okay, so I'll have to next turn. Okay, I'll just call that clear. The last thing I'm going to do is I'm going to move away from the crocodile with all my strength, and I'm going to say: everybody pull! And I'm backing up.
Matt: Make a strength check.
Taliesin: This is going to be so sad.
Marisha: Can we assist?
Matt: If you want to use an action on your next turn to assist with this, then yes, that'll be your action.
Taliesin: It might be fine. Oh god.
Ashley: Come on, Percy!
Taliesin: I have the worst strength. Eight.
Matt: Eight. As you say, "everyone push away!" Your feet feebly glide against the muddy surface of the riverbank as the jaws open slightly and you hear the low, guttural (growling). The breath comes pouring out into you in this strange combination of muddy swamp low tide and compost. It's delightful.
Taliesin: We technically have our hands free and are tied to the rope, so in theory we could still use our hands and just try and all shift backwards like stupid people.
Matt: But you're all mostly taut on the rope now. So you can. That's what you tried to do, and it failed miserably. That's your turn, Percy. Vax is up now. Vax tries to push inward. Actually, no. He's going to stay where he is out of range. He's going to try and throw his daggers from where he is.
Laura: Come on, brother!
Matt: He is not going to use his haste boots, though; he's going to save that for later. That's two attacks; both hit. So with the first strike and with the offhand throw. The first one with sneak attack, because it is currently next to Percy. You are threatening it at the moment.
Taliesin: I hope I have its attention.
Matt: 28 points of damage, and the second strike for a total of nine. So after Vax throws both daggers, both sink into the sides of the giant crocodile. It moves ever so slightly with the first impact, the second one seemingly to no effect. Both daggers appear in a puff of smoke to the side of his belt and he looks to you and goes, "Sister, what are we going to do?"
Laura: I don't know!
Matt: He can't really move at that point. It is now Garmelie's turn.
Laura: Oh, Garmelie!
Matt: Garmelie, who can't turn invisible, who can't use his normal tactics, is just, "Um!"
Laura: Sing a song, Garmelie! Charm him! Do something!
Matt: He pulls up a small pan flute from his side and (whistling). There's an awkward pause, and he goes, "Shit!" He then tries to scoot away as far as he can, but is once again caught between the very taut sides of the rope, unable to shift. That brings us to Pike.
Ashley: Okay! How far are we from the disgusting thing?
Matt: You guys are over here, so I'd say, from what you can gauge here, you're approximately 40 feet from it.
Ashley: 40 feet? Great. So I'm going to get a little bit closer.
Matt: You go right up to the edge of the water, toes dipping in.
Ashley: I'm going to use my trusty old friend Guiding Bolt. I'm going to Guiding Bolt his face.
Matt: Of course you are.
Ashley: And I'm going to do it at 5th-level, because my best friend is in his belly!
Sam: Pike, I'm standing right next to you.
Ashley: I know.
Matt: So that is 8d6 damage if you hit. Go ahead and roll your radiant attack against it. Spell attack bonus. Roll a d20.
Ashley: Roll a d20?
Matt: Roll a d20, add your spell attack bonus, yeah.
Ashley: Oh no. That's terrible. 15?
Matt: 15 just hits.
Laura: How many d6s?
Travis: She needs two more d6s.
Laura: I have two more. Here we go.
Matt: So 8d6 points of radiant damage, and it is currently marked for an advantage on the next attack against it, as a giant bright light now bursts across the front of its head, causing its eyes to retract and close in pain. (snarling)
Marisha: Come on. Big money, no whammies!
Travis: There's math happening.
Taliesin: It's really hard to count up here.
Sam: So exciting.
Ashley: 24.
Matt: 24. Not too shabby. 24 points of radiant damage, and the glowing divine beacon now flashing in the center of its face, causing it to close its eyes. The next person that wants to make an attack is going to have a nice little bonus. Is that the end of your turn? You're going to stay right there at the edge of the river?
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: Okay, that's the end of your turn, Pike. Scanlan, you're up.
Travis: Help me!
Sam: I can't!
Travis: Oh, you're all the way over.
Sam: I'm across the river! I'm going to help everyone else but you. Can I inspire anyone over there?
Matt: They're within 60 feet.
Sam: Okay. I'll inspire Keyleth. I'll sing to her (singing) Believe it or not, you're killing a croc! You never thought you could feel so free! Slashing away on a giant fucking croc. How can it be? Believe it or not, it's because of me! (laughter and applause)
Sam: And I will take out my Wand of Magic Missiles and fire many of them. I think if I use six charges, that's eight darts.
Matt: That's a lot of missiles.
Sam: It's not very powerful, though, and I would not like to shoot at the croc. I would like to shoot at every segment of rope between every single person. (cheering)
Matt: After the flash of the Guiding Bolt, the rest of the party, you look across the way as you see Scanlan, after singing this delightful song, turn around Rambo-style and release this burst of arcane energy. These arcane darts come firing straight towards the croc, and in a moment of excitement, expecting each of these impacts to blast into the side of this creature, they suddenly soar up into the sky and arc down towards each of you. Before you have a moment to really react, the word leaving your voice, "What?" They streak back down, slamming into each side of the rope, causing it to burst into frayed, burnt rope chunks and pieces of twine, all hanging loosely to your sides. All of you guys are now free to move about as you wish.
Sam: And for my movement, I will grab Pike around the waist and pull us back five feet off the edge of the pond there. Thanks.
Matt: Well done. Top of the round again. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay! You have advantage on the next hit on it?
Matt: Anybody. Whoever has the next attack roll against it has advantage.
Marisha: I am going to cast 5th-level Blight on him. He is a plant creature! I get how much extra?
Matt: Well, it makes the saving throw with disadvantage and the spell deals maximum damage to it. So what's the spell DC of this?
Marisha: 19.
Sam: Here's the big roll, guys.
Matt: 19. You can come look at it if you want to.
Audience: Disadvantage!
Matt: I understand. (chuckles) 15. This is going to suck. So that is 64 points of necrotic damage.
Marisha: I said, spit him out! That is caca! Spit it out!
Matt: As you clench your hand like this, you guys watch as the roots that connect to its body suddenly begin to wither and dry out. You watch as the outside bark then cracks and turn to ash and dust at its side, and its once verdant green hide begins to curl into this dull gray, lifeless husk. The creature's eyes spring open, and its low, guttural growl turns to this horrible shrieking pain sound. From the inside, Grog, you feel everything tense around you as its form all of a sudden is being drained of the life essence and water that keeps it going. It manages to recover, and the life pumps back into parts of it, but that sucked. That is not a happy creature. (applause)
Matt: Oh, that was fun to build the tension on that one. All right, Keyleth, that's your action. What else would you like to do for your turn?
Marisha: I want to move and flank him a little bit if I can. Get on his six. The other way.
Matt: All right, so you move past to this side.
Marisha: That's good. Closer, a little bit, to him. One more closer.
Matt: Sure, closer's great.
Marisha: No, back one! Back! No, it's fine.
Matt: Grog, you're up. You're currently still constrained inside its body. The tautness of the rope around your waist has gone slack, so in a moment, you realize either your friends are dead, or they managed to break the rope. You would think that, if you weren't so full of anger and rage at being shot and squeezed and devoured by a giant crocodile. What are you doing?
Travis: Can I reach the jug at all?
Matt: We'll say you can take your action to reach into your Bag of Holding and pull it out, yes.
Sam: I thought he had it out already. It was on his head, right?
Matt: Well, he had it out earlier. Have you had it on your head this whole time?
Travis: I had it tilted up so I could see.
Matt: If that was the case, the sheer force of the creature biting you initially and throwing you onto the bank would've tossed that jug quite a ways away from you.
Laura: Then it wasn't there.
Travis: Yeah, we'll retcon that shit. It was in my pocket.
Matt: That's what I thought. So do you want to spend your action to rummage through the Bag of Holding and pull out the jar?
Travis: And that's my action?
Matt: That would be your action, yes. You can use your bonus action to attack because you're in a frenzied rage.
Travis: No, fuck it.
Taliesin: You're still raging, too, because I hit you.
Travis: Yeah, but I can't hit anything. I'm like this.
Matt: You have disadvantage on your attacks. You can still attack him from the inside.
Travis: Can I take the Titanstone Knuckles, smash them together-- (cheering)
Travis: Can I cast Enlarge on myself?
Matt: You can certainly try. Is that what you want to do?
Travis: Yeah, I'll try that.
Matt: As your mind is suddenly clouded with the thought of, "Jug! I need to get the jug... No." You feel your body, your physical form begin to ripple and swell. You guys watch as the crocodile, now currently recovering from the blight-like withering of its form, suddenly its eyes go wide once more as its gullet begins to swell wider and wider. You hear this low (retching), like a cat coughing up a hairball slowed down, as you watch an enlarged Grog get immediately vomited up and out of the creature to its side.
Sam: His favored terrain is vomit.
Matt: Yes, you do have benefits to that. So yes. You manage to do that, sir.
Travis: So I get puked out. Can I use whatever movement speed I have left to drag the daisy chain with me away from the crocodile?
Matt: Okay. As you rush away, he gets an attack of opportunity on you.
Travis: Oh yeah. It got separated.
Matt: It does have disadvantage because you shot it last turn. Which is good, because the second roll was a natural 20. That's a total of 20 to hit. What's your armor class?
Travis: 20.
Matt: Okay, so it just hits you with the bite.
Sam: Can I Cutting Words him?
Matt: You do have a reaction, so yes, you may.
Sam: Okay. I will Cutting Words him. I'll say Mm-Grog (vocalizing) Grog (vocalizing). Yeah! It's supposed to distract him.
Matt: Yeah, it's not inspiring somebody. It is intended to distract the opponent. And this crocodile, probably having a rather rough time in the early 2000s, manages to provide even more bile from its stomach at the sound of a rehashed Hanson song. Go ahead and make your roll.
Sam: What do I roll?
Matt: You roll your inspiration die.
Sam: Eight.
Matt: No, it's a d10.
Sam: d10? Eight.
Matt: You were intent on that happening. As it reaches out to try and bite towards Grog, it hears the sound and its head quirks, vomits a little. Grog, you manage to get away, at that point, we'll say about that far. As you turn around, the daisy chain has not followed you. Glancing down, the rope that was once around your waist has snapped by the growth in size, and all the rest of the ropes have also been snapped. Sorry.
Laura: Hey, you're out!
Matt: Perfect. That ends your turn. It is now the croc's turn. It's going to make a bite attack right now. This is going to be at Percy, since you're right there in front of him.
Taliesin: Bring it!
Sam: Don't worry. I won't sing Hanson again.
Matt: With disadvantage, that is a 23.
Taliesin: That hits.
Matt: That hits you. All right, as the head turns back towards you, it opens to the side and tries to clamp on you.
Taliesin: I'm using my new fancy counter.
Marisha: Yeah, your counter ring.
Taliesin: I'm so excited to take damage.
Matt: That is a 34.
Taliesin: I'm not that excited to take damage. 34?
Matt: 34 points of piercing damage, and you are currently grappled and restrained.
Taliesin: Grappled and restrained.
Marisha: Wait, he's in the crocodile's mouth now?
Matt: The crocodile has now snapped, its jaws moving to Percy, and Percy, you're currently held tight in its jaws. It's trying to lift you up now, possibly to fill its now terribly empty stomach. It lost more than it originally started this battle with. As it swings around its tail, in doing so, its stinger sweeps overhead. It has a reach of ten at this point. We'll say in that arc there. This is going to be towards Vex. Towards you Vex, with disadvantage. Still, that's a 21. What's your armor class?
Laura: Fuck! I mean, 20.
Matt: 20, okay, so it still hits you. All right, so the stinger (whipcrack) grinds itself into your flesh, tears through the armor separation there, and you can feel pulsing. I need you to go ahead and make a constitution saving throw.
Laura: Because that's my strength.
Taliesin: You got this.
Laura: Do I?
Taliesin: You do.
Laura: Ten!
Matt: Well, you take 16 points of piercing damage from the actual stinger itself striking you. You now feel that pulse of venom through your body, and as it begins to swell through you, you feel all the colors and all the images of the landscape around you begin to shift and bubble and move.
Marisha: You're tripping, man.
Matt: You are tripping balls right now. You look to your left and see Garmelie next to you, whose frightened expression becomes suddenly this giant feral wolverine that hisses at you! You look to your right, and you see the giant crocodile holding Percy suddenly merge into one strange, giant Medusa creature. You don't know which way is up and down, and you are extremely frightened and confused.
Marisha: You're frightened? Oh no, it's a bad trip.
Laura: Does that mean I lose my turn?
Matt: Well, that ends the crocodile's turn, and it is now your turn. Currently, you cannot take reactions, and I need you to roll a d8 to see what you do.
Sam: Wait, it could be anything?
Matt: (chuckles) You're so stunned by this moment, and your brain being completely turned around. What did you roll?
Laura: I rolled a five.
Matt: Roll of five. Okay. You take no action, and you use all of your movement to move in a random direction. You go into the river. You turn around and begin to flee. Looking ahead of you, you see what seems to be a moving sea of grass, and all of a sudden you feel your feet (splashing). The river begins to pull you away at the end of your turn.
Marisha: Son of a bitch. Oh shit.
Laura: Bye!
Matt: Make another constitution saving throw.
Laura: Oh, good. Okay. Oh, natural 20!
Ashley: She turns back time.
Matt: As soon as your vision comes back to you and a breath of relief hits your form as suddenly you have control of your form. As it begins to be sucked under the water. End of your turn. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: So I'm grappled. There's nothing I can do.
Matt: You're restrained. You can attack. You can't move, and all your attacks have disadvantage.
Taliesin: And everything I have, at least at the moment, anything with a gun is at disadvantage. Oh, but I've got Hex on him, so even if I hit him with a sword, it's an extra d6. I'm going to try and start hacking him to let me go. Ooh! Weird question. If I use the drop-it effect, the grit drop an item, can I get him to drop me, as an item?
Matt: I don't think you count as an item, I'm sorry.
Taliesin: Sticking him in the jaw, I can't get him to? I can't make him roll to drop?
Matt: I don't think that's how it works. It's not like you hit a couple fingers and they drop a cup. This is a massive muscle currently clamped on you, trying to swallow you.
Taliesin: I was hoping.
Matt: I know. Sorry.
Taliesin: Okay, in that case, I'm going to grab my sword and start hacking at him.
Matt: Okay, so we'll say you use your bonus action to draw your weapon. It's right there by your side. You pull it out. Go ahead and make your attacks against the crocodile.
Taliesin: Okay, that's a 15?
Matt: 15 just barely hits.
Sam: Okay. You had advantage on them.
Taliesin: Did I? No, I don't have advantage for these.
Matt: Actually, technically it would have been the first attack since Pike's Guiding Bolt. Thank you for the reminder of that. So it would've been a normal attack.
Taliesin: That was the first attack since her Guiding Bolt?
Marisha: No, I thought I attacked.
Matt: Yours didn't have a spell attack, it just instantly hit and made a save. So technically, what was your first roll?
Taliesin: 15.
Matt: Yeah, you hit.
Taliesin: Okay. The next roll wasn't a 20, so it doesn't matter, anyway.
Matt: The Guiding Bolt wears off. However, that did manage to get rid of the disadvantage on that one strike. Seeing the bright side of its face, you take your blade out and hack downward for the first hit, which does strike true across the side of its face. You can make your next two attacks.
Taliesin: That's 28. MATT Those do have disadvantage.
Taliesin: Okay, in that case, natural 20. Oh, it has disadvantage, though, so it's still the 28.
Sam: Matt, if I can be a stickler, I also Cutting Wordsed him, so that puts him at disadvantage on a save.
Matt: On his next saving throw, but he's not making a saving throw.
Sam: This is a kangaroo court!
Matt: And if I'm going to be a stickler here, Sam. The next time he has a saving throw, I'll keep the disadvantage in mind.
Laura: Oh, you're in trouble, Samuel.
Taliesin: All right, so that hit, and then for my last one... That's not bad. 21.
Matt: Yeah, all three strikes hit. Go ahead and roll damage on all those.
Taliesin: Let me get my new d8. That's super. Oh, I can get all my d8s. And then 3d6 for some necrotic damage. So that's 13 points of necrotic damage and 37 points of slashing damage.
Marisha: Kill it!
Matt: Slamming into the side of its face, you begin splitting open a section of the side of its head. You can see its cracked, withered form from the Blight spell earlier has become a little more brittle, and each impact is cutting deeper than any of the previous hits has. We're going to take a quick break here. Five, ten-minute break to use the restroom, and return to the apex of this battle. [break]
Travis: Is this for me? Motherfuckers!
Laura: You're so low.
Taliesin: Oh, god, that game again.
Laura: Grog? It's all for Grog? Is it just for you?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: So on Vax's turn... Vax is going to go ahead and dart around this way, behind Garmelie, getting to where Trinket is flanking along the river bend there.
Laura: Oh, are we just right back in?
Matt: As he does pull out of the range of the tail, the croc can go ahead and make an attack of opportunity with the stinger out towards him behind. That is not going to hit, that is a natural four. That's going to be like a 16, so yeah. As it swings with its tail wide to Vax, Vax ducks beneath it, arms up to the side, leaps in the air and catches himself right on the edge of the bank. He looks over and notices you, running off to the side.
Laura: Me! Me, help me.
Matt: Immediately decides to put his daggers back away, and then uses a dash action to dart over to the edge of the river where you are, and is going to reach out and try and grab your arms. You guys are reaching for each other right now. That is how it's going to go for this moment. That brings us to Garmelie, who now, free of the rope circumstance and the chaos around, looks and sees you out in the river, scoots around, goes out with, grabs your brother's arm and then reaches out towards your arm and chains his way towards you, putting his hand towards you.
Laura: Garmelie's helping!
Marisha: Garmelie!
Matt: "Grab!"
Laura: Okay!
Taliesin: It's a sign he's going to turn on us at any moment.
Laura: I know.
Matt: So you guys grab and link arms. At that point he's going to go ahead and make a strength check to pull you out of the roaring rapids. Okay. He manages to hold in the moment, but doesn't actually get any ground on pulling you out of the river, so now it's just him and Vax holding you at the edge. The river's pulling you harder and harder, and you can feel the actual swell getting stronger, but they're still managing to keep you in place. That ends his turn. Pike, you're up.
Ashley: Okay. How is the monster crocodile plant doing? Is he looking rough?
Matt: He's looking hurt.
Ashley: Is he regenerating himself?
Matt: You've noticed each time it's had a moment to itself, its roots have dug in and it's pulled back into its form, yeah. It has been still regenerating every round, yes.
Ashley: That's bullshit.
Travis: It really is.
Ashley: You know what? I'm going to hold off on that then. No, you know what? I'm going to Flame Strike him.
Matt: What are you doing on him?
Ashley: Just the old Flame Strike.
Matt: Sure. All righty. Where do you want that Flame Strike to land?
Ashley: Just on his whole body.
Matt: Wherever you see it, onto the middle of its body.
Ashley: Oh, where do I want to see it? Maybe his torso area.
Laura: Where it won't hurt anybody else around.
Matt: As you look over in the distance, unable to really see beyond the form of the creature, you bring the Flame Strike down onto its form. It's going to make a saving throw with disadvantage because of your Cutting Words, which is good because it rolled a 17 for the first one. And it rolled a 15 for the second one. No dex bonus for it because it's not very fast. Your DC is?
Ashley: 18.
Matt: 18, yes. 8d6 radiant damage. Go ahead and roll that.
Laura: Wait, here's some more d6. Take them.
Matt: That's a ten-foot radius. I'll say for the sake of knowledge in the area, too, and seeing Trinket attack, you manage to pull it out of the range of the bear, not wanting to ignite him. Scanlan, you're up next.
Sam: Yeah, I know.
Matt: How much fire and divine damage?
Ashley: 28.
Matt: 28 points of damage. As you guys see this gathering of small reddish and white divine particles circle in the air, faster and faster, and then (boom) a column of divine flame strikes from the heavens, blasting into the side of this creature. It rears back (roars) in pain as you see now its slightly withered, blight-impacted grayish-green back is now burnt to a black crisp, and smoke begins to rise off of its form. It's very pissed off.
Travis: Monster!
Matt: Is that the end of your turn, Pike? Are you going to stay where you are?
Ashley: How's everybody doing?
Taliesin: I'm a little iffy, but I'm okay.
Ashley: You're a little iffy? Yeah, I want to Healing Word Percy.
Matt: What's the range on it?
Ashley: 60 feet.
Matt: 60 feet? Yeah, you can get to him from there.
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: I don't know. So you heal him.
Ashley: All right, so I'll heal him.
Matt: So you're casting Healing Word at second level?
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: Go for it. Roll the dice.
Taliesin: What is that? How many-- oh, she's rolling dice.
Ashley: 19.
Taliesin: 19. That's nice.
Matt: All right. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Okay. I don't know, man.
Matt: Real fast, Pike. That was 2d4 plus five?
Ashley: Oh, isn't it my spellcasting modifier?
Matt: No, just add plus five.
Ashley: Okay, so then it would be 13, because I rolled two fours.
Matt: All right. Scanlan, what are you doing?
Sam: Is it a large creature? I know it's large, but how large?
Matt: It would be classified as a huge creature.
Sam: Okay. Well, then forget that. Okay, I'm going to Eyebite him with my eyes of craziness. Put up the hand cone, and I'm going to try to make him sick.
Matt: All righty, so let's take its wisdom saving throw against your DC. That is a six with no modifier. It is certainly sickened, though its disadvantage has worn off, of course.
Taliesin: There's so many rings on it. It's great.
Sam: And I won't really move, but I will inspire Grog, because he needs to hit something, man.
Travis: I'm telling you.
Sam: I'll inspire him with a limerick. A warning from your favorite bard: In the Feywild, you should be on guard. I went off to take a shitter, and saw, like, a thousand Critters. (cheering)
Sam: And they kind of made me hard! (cheering)
Matt: Take your inspiration die, Grog. All right, staying where you are, Scanlan?
Sam: Staying where I am.
Matt: Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Oh! It's me! Oh dear god. Okay. I am going to do what worked really well last time, and I'm going to do a 4th-level Blight. And what I want to do is, I want to take my staff, because I'm near him, right?
Matt: You are.
Marisha: Okay, I want to take my staff, and where Pike put that nice little crispy donut hole in the middle of him, I want to take my staff right in the middle and bring it down and cast Blight.
Matt: All righty. Saving throw against the DC with disadvantage. A six and an eight. (laughter and applause)
Matt: How do you want to do this? (cheering and chanting "Keyleth")
Marisha: That's the coolest thing that's ever happened to me.
Matt: You hear the phantom chanting in the back of your head. How do you want to do this?
Marisha: My ego loves this. Is Percy still in his mouth?
Matt: Percy is still in its mouth, yes.
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to say  Stop putting foreign objects in your mouth!
Matt: As you slam your staff into the ground with a giant ripple, all of a sudden you watch as the various plant growth in the ground begins to turn to a dark black gray at the base of the staff. It curls across the ground, like the actual line of blighted death and decay seems to spear out across. It manages to catch the bottom and sink up the roots of the creature. As it begins to swell up into its body, you see it taking form. How do you want the Blight spell to take hold in its body?
Marisha: It takes hold? Okay. How about this? You know the petrified forests in Arizona? Can I petrify him?
Matt: All right, so as the Blight spell spirals across his body like a spider web, crackling, it begins to (snarl). It rears up with its arms out in front of it taut, the muscles locking up like this giant arching statue, its jaws up in the air holding Percy aloft. (laughter)
Matt: You hear the scraping and cracking of bark and dried plant matter, its entire form slightly squeaking as it becomes a solid, petrified piece of plant matter, the life force now drained from it. The roots at its sides crack and turn to ash. Part of its form tends to sink to one side of the mud, and now this once very dangerous-looking creature is solid, dead plant matter, holding a wiggling and very unhappy human. (cheering)
Marisha: Hey, Percy! How's the weather up there?
Taliesin: Ow!
Laura: I would be cheering for you if I wasn't drowning at this very moment.
Matt: On that note, too, I need you to make a strength check.
Laura: Oh. Well, that's a 15 there. Actually, that's a straight check. That's not a saving throw?
Matt: Right, just a check.
Laura: 13.
Matt: (chuckles) You and Vax and Garmelie still hold your ground, but unfortunately, not a whole lot of physical strength in this daisy chain right now.
Laura: Can I ask Trinket to come up and help?
Matt: You can, yes. And Trinket rushes over. (moans) Comes up behind Vax and bites the back of his cloak and begins tugging on him as he's now being slightly strangled by the bear. Pulled back toward Trinket, adding his strength to that. What's Trinket's strength bonus?
Laura: Yeah. Four! He's stronger than me.
Matt: With a roll of a 17, that brings it to a 21. Whereas you began to pull them in towards the river, Trinket makes up the back end of it and manages to drag all of you out of the wake, onto the side. As you get up and cough out the water, Trinket comes up to you and nuzzles you on the side of your face.
Laura: Thanks, buddy.
Matt: (moans)
Laura: I get up and hug Garmelie. What! You saved me. You're wonderful.
Matt: "What was I supposed to do, watch you drown? No! We're almost to the end of our agreement."
Laura: I tousle his hair. Good job, Keyleth!
Marisha: Thanks.
Laura: How you doing, Percy?
Taliesin: Grog, could you help with this?
Travis: Do I get to chop down a tree, finally? (laughter)
Taliesin: I really wanted alligator boots, but I suppose that will do. Please help.
Travis: Do I get to chop him? I start chopping down the petrified alligator tree!
Laura: Trinket, catch him when he falls.
Taliesin: What?
Matt: Trinket rushes up and looks up at you underneath with open jaws.
Taliesin: No!
Matt: As Grog, large Grog, comes lumbering up. (heavy footsteps, whack) With one clean hit, the bloodaxe carves straight through its body, causing the upper part of the torso to slam into the ground with a big speed. Upon the impact, it rolls a few feet, taking Percy in its jaws.
Taliesin: Oh, ow!
Matt: You do suffer two points of damage from it, but eventually you hit a point in the bank where the jaw cracks into a hundred pieces, and you tumble onto the ground and catch your breath, after being restrained for so long.
Taliesin: I stand up and kick one of them.
Marisha: Keyleth wants to get down on the grass that she hurt, and I want to cast Druidcraft and heal it, and talk to the grass, and be like: It wasn't personal. I hope you know you were not the intended target, you just happened to be caught in the fray. It's okay. Don't be mad.
Matt: As you extend your fingers about you, you see small strands of green go (popping) and you hear a hundred soft voices go, "Eh."
Marisha: I like your enthusiasm, grass.
Laura: All right. How are you doing over there, gnomesies?
Ashley: Come on, you should get over here! No rush, but.
Taliesin: All right, there's a river.
Sam: Don't forget to loot the body?
Laura: There's nothing to loot on the petrified alligator, is there?
Taliesin: Actually, there's an empty stomach, isn't there?
Travis: It's made of petrified wood.
Taliesin: I'm going to stick my head in and see if there's anything in there.
Matt: Okay. The very tiny, pressed stomach interior of this creature, petrified as it is, it's like staring into one of those weird high school science room half-man organ presentation statues. You can see where the folds of the stomach lining are. There appear to be some remnants of bone, some entities that were partially digested, but nothing that catches your eye to be something worth pulling out of it.
Taliesin: Just for fun, Grog, smash this.
Travis: Okay! (whack)
Matt: And with that, (shatter) the pieces of it go scattered all across the ground. Elements of it tumble into the water and get washed away. It is no more.
Travis: How was that?
Taliesin: Anything exciting come out?
Matt: Many small, petrified crocodile pieces.
Taliesin: I'm going to pick one up and bring it to Keyleth. For you. Well done. (applause)
Marisha: I get a souvenir from the Feywild! That's all I wanted.
Travis: We've got two more rivers, right?
Matt: One more, technically. You guys have all made your way across. There's one last one that leads to the outskirts of the Shademirk.
Laura: I want to keep perception check up to make sure we don't run into another one of those fuckers.
Matt: Go ahead and make a perception check.
Travis: Listen, hey, is anybody near death? I'm super big right now. How about I just throw everybody across the river?
Ashley: I'll go.
Travis: You want to?
Marisha: I'm in.
Travis: Can I throw Pike across the river?
Matt: Make a strength check.
Laura: Yeah, Pike's already across. 22 for perception.
Travis: Wait. I need you to smack me in the face first. (impact) I would like to rage! Natural 20.
Ashley: I'm going to get in a ball.
Matt: Which you have disadvantage on. Hold on, because you took a point of exhaustion from frenzied raging during the battle. However, you do get advantage on strength checks while raging, so it's a singular roll, so the natural 20 stands. So as you pick Pike up, she smacks you in the face. The grin crawls across, and you (whoosh) lob her. She lands in the top of a tree. You see (cracking) in the bushes as a few leaves dangle down. You can see some gloppy black stuff out of the side, and you hear this muffled voice in the distance as Pike landed okay.
Ashley: She's laughing. That was awesome!
Travis: Should I try and skip Vax across the river? (laughter)
Marisha: Yeah, do it.
Matt: Vax says, "I'd rather run." And he goes running forward and attempts to make a leap across the river. He leaps, makes it most of the way, catches his ankle on the edge, and begins to flutter backward.
Travis: That's what you get, stupid!
Laura: Can't you save him? Aren't you on the other side?
Sam: I'm looking at the trees. I'm hanging out.
Matt: Yeah. However, he does manage to right himself. He only got partially into the river and managed to pull his way out, so he's fine. Grog, who are you throwing next?
Travis: Who's next?
Taliesin: I'll go.
Travis: Yeah, Percy's next! Can I granny shot this one?
Matt: Go for it. Strength check.
Travis: 19.
Matt: (grunts) You lob him. It's enough to get you across, but the landing is not very graceful.
Taliesin: Can I acrobatics check this to try and make the landing?
Marisha: Three-point landing.
Taliesin: That'll be a 21.
Matt: 21. You manage to use the actual momentum to go into a shoulder roll, stumble forward, and you come to a standing point. However, when you do, you realize you rolled through a bunch of slick, tar-like muck, and the side of your jacket is now seeping with it.
Taliesin: I was already covered in crocodile bile.
Matt: There you go. You feel balanced.
Taliesin: This is another layer of sadness.
Travis: Who's next?
Laura: I'll go next. But I want to bring out my broom and hold it in my hand.
Travis: In the spirit of the Olympic games, can I shot put her?
Matt: Make a strength check. You see Trinket come up.
Laura: Come on!
Matt: Trinket goes into your necklace.
Travis: Oh shit. No, it's not. It's a 23. I'm strong as fuck.
Matt: I would say the lighter half of the twins, but I think they're an equal weight class. You grab her by the side and (whoosh, grunt) launch her into the air. You catch your stomach contents. Make an acrobatics check.
Laura: That's okay. That's a 28, man.
Matt: You actually catch yourself on the side of the tree, landing, and then leap off of it with the last bit of momentum, stepping gingerly on the tips of your feet.
Ashley: I clap from however far away I am.
Matt: You hear muffled clapping in the tree boughs ahead of you.
Laura: I fly up and I grab Pike down from the tree. Can I do that?
Matt: She's about 15 feet up.
Laura: Oh. I fly 15 feet up and grab Pike.
Ashley: Thanks! I didn't know how I was going to get down.
Travis: Are you left?
Marisha: I'm left.
Travis: Do you want to go with me as I jump across, or should I throw you?
Laura: Piggy-back that shit, Keyleth!
Sam: I wave my hands and say I'll catch you, Kiki!
Marisha: Okay. You want to shot put this one?
Travis: No, it's going to be fast-pitch softball.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: No, wait. I'm going to be a long snapper in football and turn around. (laughter)
Sam: I will receive that. Set!
Travis: 19!
Marisha: Hut!
Matt: (grunts) With a big long toss, you make it most of the way over the water and begin to descend very close on the opposite side of the bank. Make an acrobatics check.
Sam: Use your new dice!
Marisha: No, fuck that new dice. Nine. Not great.
Matt: The good news is, you miss the river. The bad news is, you Warner Brothers cartoon faceplant into the actual ground on the opposite side. (laughter)
Matt: Suffering 11 points of damage, and as Percy pulls you up, your entire front of your face and the little bit of hair in the crown is caked with this tar-like substance. Your nostrils are filled with it. You can't open your eyes. It tastes like IHOP. It's terrible.
Ashley: Hey!
Matt: Tonight's episode of Critical Role, not brought to you by IHOP. And probably never will be.
Ashley: There goes our IHOP sponsorship.
Marisha: I gag a little, try to keep it down. Try to wash my face if I can.
Sam: Who's left? Garmelie?
Laura: Oh, Garmelie!
Matt: Garmelie's on the side. He goes, "Don't worry. You first."
Laura: No, he's going to leave. I mean, he can. I guess you got us all the way here, didn't you?
Matt: "Once he's across, our accord is complete."
Travis: Oh yeah. No, totally. Come here, bitch.
Matt: "No!" Roll an attack. Well, technically, this is a grapple, so it's an athletics check.
Travis: A 20. Total.
Matt: You reach out and his eyes go wide and he darts around, and your fingers barely catch the edge of his fur, and you get enough of a hold to lift him off the ground. He's now dangling from your giant half-giant ass hand. "No! I don't have to go there! I'm just going back the other way when we're done!"
Travis: Oh, no, yeah, I totally hear what you're saying. We're going for a ride, bitch. And I back up.
Matt: Make an athletics check.
Travis: 20 again. 12 plus eight.
Matt: Your large, bounding form (heavy footsteps, impact, scream). As you make it across, you hit the other side. The actual bank shifts, and you guys feel the impact on the other side beneath your feet, and there's a small crater in the ground where you landed, and the river bank slowly fills it in as it lowers it just below river water level. Garmelie is now clutching your arm, his hands and legs wrapped around your forearm. (laughter)
Matt: His head was on the other side. He eventually loosens his grip, plops to the ground, and dusts himself off a bit. "Very well. Welcome to the Shademirk. Good luck."
Laura: We made it!
Travis: You don't want to see what happens at the end of the journey? You want to come with us, right?
Matt: He looks past you, and you all turn and look into the Shademirk. At this point, you can see the bog itself is an endless dumping form of sludge into the Gilded Run. The water itself is barely tearing it away, what you guys noticed before. The black oily material is itself thick, ichor-like tar. The smell that you're very familiar with, that horrible, acrid, sulfurous scent is very thick in the area, mixed with a terrible rotting leaf and decay. You see bubbles going (bubbling) and churning up in certain parts of it, and there are elements where you see knotted and gnarled roots that tangle up above the surface. It is the most uninviting place in nature you've ever seen and experienced, and you can see in the distance the swamp trees with high root sections overhead so you can walk underneath are scattered throughout ahead of you. Garmelie slowly turns his head back to you and goes, "No, I'm all right. But I appreciate that. Be careful. Don't stay in one place too long. The longer you stand still, the harder it gets to escape the place you stood. And there's a lot of things that tend to live here, from what I've heard, that wait for stillness as a means of attack. So keep moving."
Laura: Keep moving.
Travis: What kinds of things?
Matt: "I don't know. It's time for me to go. Thank you guys so much. I appreciate this. It's been something."
Laura: Wait, before he goes, I want to give him a kiss on his head.
Matt: A little kiss on the head, and he goes, "Well, at least it's been a pleasure travelling with you, my lady." He takes your hand and does a little bow and (kiss) on the edge.
Laura: As I was kissing him, can I give him a little pat down to make sure he didn't steal anything? (laughter and applause)
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: 23.
Matt: 23? As you feel down, you feel this slight little bump inside of his fur, and you're afraid to touch it for fear of it being-- on the outside of his body! Not that you understand the physicality of the satyr, but still. It's hard and smooth. And appears to wiggle loosely when you touch it.
Laura: Well, now I feel wrong saying I reach for it and try to see what it is.
Matt: Do you reach for it?
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: All right.
Marisha: You're committed now.
Matt: Grasping onto it, you tug, and pull forth the small onyx mastiff that you had found earlier in the campground.
Laura: I take it back.
Matt: He goes, "Oh, that's right. I was holding this for you."
Laura: Thank you so much. You're so kind.
Travis: The little black dog statue? Oh, I like that thing.
Matt: "Fantastic. Well, wish you all the best of luck. Stay alive."
Travis: Wait a minute. How do you plan on getting back across the rivers?
Matt: "I have my ways." And he turns invisible. You see little sludgy footprints go off down the shore and around the bend.
Marisha: Bye!
Taliesin: Cast Hunter's Mark really quick.
Laura: Oh, on him? Can I cast Hunter's Mark on him really quick?
Matt: What do you want to do?
Laura: Can I cast Hunter's Mark on him?
Matt: You cannot currently see him now. He's already vanished.
Laura: Sorry. I should've done it when I was kissing him, but I was distracted by feeling him up.
Matt: It happens. All right, so what are you guys going to do?
Travis: Awesome. So we're across the rivers. Everything gets worse now, and we can't stop moving.
Taliesin: We should move until it's time to camp, and when we camp, we should camp in your palacious...
Laura: Oh, in the mansion.
Sam: I've got the mansion.
Laura: Thank god.
Marisha: Are we in the bog now?
Matt: This would be the tangleward tip of it, the southern tip of the bog, yes.
Marisha: I want to test and see if we sink when we step on the bog.
Matt: Okay. You step onto it, and your foot descends about three inches before it comes to a stop. (squelch)
Marisha: It comes to a stop.
Matt: But as you go to remove your foot, (sucking sound). It's very sticky. Effectively, you guys are at half movement moving through the bog.
Laura: I cast Pass Without Trace on us so that we can be stealthy. She doesn't have mist form, not until we rest.
Marisha: I could rest and learn mist, and we can mist across. That was what I was going to say.
Travis: Is it a treeline? Are we into trees?
Matt: Yeah, it is a very thickly wooded swamp now. The ground floor and the base of most of the trees, and occasionally dripping from the top of the canopy itself is that black, sludge-like material.
Travis: It's dripping from the trees?
Matt: It's seemingly seeping from everything.
Laura: I have Land's Stride. Does that mean that this doesn't affect me? Or am I still slowed down?
Matt: Read out Land's Stride to me.
Laura: Land's Stride isn't on any of my pieces of paper. Oh, wait. Here it is. Moving through non-magical difficult terrain costs you no movement.
Matt: Technically, yes, you can move at your normal pace. The rest of the party still has to stay slowed.
Laura: Then I'll tell you what I'm going to do. I'm going to pull out my broom and I'm going to let the gnomes ride on it, since you guys will sink down a little bit more than the rest of us. Do you want to ride on the broom?
Sam: How do we do that?
Laura: You sit on it, and then you fly.
Sam: Do we have to say a magical word?
Laura: I'll say it for you.
Taliesin: I don't think it works that way. I think you have to tell them, and then they have to say it.
Laura: Oh, really?
Matt: You can try. It's up to you.
Laura: Sit on it.
Sam: Okay. Whenever a woman tells me to sit on something, I do. (laughter)
Ashley: Do you want front or back?
Travis: Yeah, sit on it! Front or back?
Sam: I'll sit front, so you can have your arms around me.
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: That's sweet. (hacking spit)
Matt: Okay. As you guys get up onto the broom, you release it from your grasp, and it goes (splat) onto the ground. Both of you guys sink about three or four inches into the ground.
Laura: Say (hacking spit).
Ashley: (hacking spit).
Sam: (hacking spit).
Matt: It lifts up and pulls you guys slowly out of the sludge, (squelch) finally freeing yourself, and you're now hovering a very short distance above the ground.
Laura: So at least you guys and me aren't slowed down, so that's good.
Sam: Bye, guys!
Travis: By the way, now that we're out of all this shit, can we look around and see if Ukurat has been peeping us this entire time?
Laura: Can we see him?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: We're not in the forest anymore? This is bog?
Travis: 15.
Matt: Right now, technically it's swamp, yeah. Not considered forest.
Taliesin: 16.
Laura: 20.
Sam: 16 here.
Marisha: Oh my god! It's a 31.
Matt: As you guys take a moment to look out in the distance, you're unable to really make any idea of a form or movement. Keyleth, you do see on the tree on the other bank, it looks a little thicker towards the top than you expect, and as you take a moment to glance, you can see a rather large creature drop down from the canopy onto the ground, and then slink behind it.
Laura: So he's checking us out.
Matt: He's following you.
Laura: So he's going to be able to get across all these rivers?
Taliesin: Apparently, he's fine.
Laura: He's pretty cool. He can jump really far.
Marisha: I give him a-- from a distance.
Matt: He shrinks sideways against the tree and is now barely visible, other than his furry chest that's now peeking out one side of the width of the tree.
Marisha: I give him a--
Matt: No reaction. Vax at this point is like, "So are we going to move on, then?"
Laura: Yes, but stealthily.
Matt: "Let's do it." Make a stealth check, guys.
Laura: I cast Pass Without Trace on us, so we all got plus ten.
Ashley: Oh!
Laura: Did you get something good?
Ashley: I did.
Travis: I fucked it all up. (laughter)
Sam: 32.
Matt: 32?
Sam: I rolled a natural 20. (cheering)
Matt: Percy.
Taliesin: 33.
Matt: Keyleth.
Marisha: 24.
Matt: All right, Vex.
Laura: 32.
Matt: 32! Pike.
Ashley: I rolled a 30. I'm so quiet!
Matt: And over here we have 12-foot-tall Grog. What did you roll?
Travis: I rolled a 14.
Matt: You guys begin trudging forward into the Shademirk. Everyone's being kind of... and he's lumbering through it like a mammoth.
Travis: We're being sneaky, guys!
Matt: You all shush him, and you find ways to cushion his footfalls. As unstealthy as you may be in the moment, the rest of the party helps try to keep you going forward the best they can, being unheard. You guys continue forward for about 30 minutes, not really understanding the direction. You know that heavy mountain that you saw on the way in is central and to the right of your direction, and you're not entirely certain where the tree is here in the Shademirk, but you're keeping your eyes peeled, and you continue to move forward further and further in. It is difficult. It is hot. It is muggy. There are heavy insects, large winged bugs (buzzing) through the air, and you knock them away. The bubbling of the ground itself is releasing sulfurous gas and various other chemicals into the air that are probably not healthy to breathe extensively. Many of you are having to cover your mouth to keep from coughing to break up your stealth capabilities.
Taliesin: I'm going to mask it.
Matt: Put your mask on, okay.
Laura: Can I keep an eye out for any movement ahead of us or around us?
Matt: Make a perception check. Yes?
Travis: I only stay enlarged for ten minutes.
Matt: At this point, it has now died down, and your form has shifted to its normal form.
Travis: Do I get to reroll my stealth check?
Matt: No.
Laura: 29.
Matt: As you guys move forward and Vex is keeping watch, Vex, you see ahead of you about 80 yards, a large, stocky tree in the distance that has a gentle glow emanating from the trunk.
Sam: Burn it down.
Taliesin: That simple.
Laura: Does it look like the tree we're looking for?
Matt: It's hard to say at this distance. You would have to get closer to get a better look.
Travis: How far off is it?
Matt: About 80 yards.
Laura: 80 yards. Fuck, I'm so scared of everything here.
Travis: Well, what's between us and it?
Matt: A series of trees and a few low areas of open sludge.
Laura: And it's a tree with a glowing bottom?
Matt: It looks thicker than a lot of the other trees that you've seen in the area, and there's a dull glow at the base of it.
Travis: I've got a great idea. Let's send Trinket to go check out the tree.
Laura: What the fuck? Why?
Travis: He's a bear, and this is the woods.
Taliesin: This is not the woods. This is a bog.
Laura: If he goes unconscious, he does automatically come back. But no, that's only within 100 feet, that's not 80 yards. No.
Taliesin: So take the broom back and fly 100 feet behind him. It's an idea.
Marisha: But we're only 80 yards out. Feet? 80 feet?
Laura: I'm not slowed down, so you know what, I'm going to sneak behind Trinket. I'll send Trinket out, and I'll sneak 100 feet behind him.
Matt: Trinket emerges (impact) in the sludge. (moans)
Laura: I'm sorry, buddy. Okay. Don't get too far ahead of me. We're going to sneak ahead and check out this glowy tree. See it?
Matt: (grunts)
Laura: Yeah. All right. Sneaky-sneaky.
Matt: And Trinket manages to stalk forward. Make a stealth check for Trinket, without the plus ten, because Trinket was not around when you cast the spell.
Laura: That's mean. What do I add?
Matt: His dexterity modifier.
Laura: Yeah, okay. Six.
Marisha: Total?
Taliesin: Really?
Travis: It was a six?
Laura: He gets no pluses.
Matt: Nope. He's not very stealthy, that bear.
Laura: No. He's a bear in armor. No. Six.
Matt: Oh, it was a six. I thought you were joking. All right. Trinket (squishy footsteps). You can hear the impact coming as each footfall hits the sludge. As you get closer towards it, keeping at bay, as best out of sight as possible. You see the tree, while it is thicker, it is not as high as the other trees. In fact, where there would be a top of a tree, it looks to be instead a tangled mass of branches that have been matted over and tied down to the top of where this tree ends.
Laura: I tell him to stop.
Matt: Trinket stops. You get a glance and the small glow is apparently a porthole or a window that is carved circular out from one side of the trunk of this tree. The glow is a dull reddish-orange, and it's flickering like firelight.
Travis: It's the Keebler elves. Kill them all!
Laura: I call him back. I feel like that's animals. That's not the tree we're looking for.
Marisha: This is not the tree we're looking for.
Matt: Trinket backs up towards you.
Laura: Come back in.
Matt: (squish, grunts) Dives into the necklace.
Marisha: The whole time, us who were waiting have been do-si-do-ing around each other. We don't stop moving, so we're dancing in circles.
Matt: It's like you're lagging. All right, what are you doing, Vex?
Laura: So it's a tree that looks like there's people living in it? It's a window looking out?
Matt: It seems to have an interior and some sort of warm firelight from the inside.
Laura: That's definitely a fairy tree. I'm going to stay clear. I'm going to go back. I'm going to go back to the party and tell them what I see.
Matt: All right. Vex returns from out of the shadows of the forest, no Trinket in tow.
Laura: Trinket died.
Sam: Oh my god!
Laura: You're a dick. I'm joking. I think it's fairies. I think we should probably stay clear. It looked like there were things living in the tree. It doesn't look like the cancerous tree.
Taliesin: They may know where we want to go, though.
Marisha: The pixies and fairies haven't been that nice.
Taliesin: I'm not saying they're nice. I'm saying that maybe we need some new guidance.
Travis: Yeah. Look, maybe if you let me talk to them--
Laura: How about no diplomacy from you. Maybe Scanlan should go talk to them.
Sam: I could talk to them, but I want to know what they are first. We should do some recon and at least see what kind of creature they are. I can't just knock on a door. What if it's a crazy monster that pops its head out?
Travis: Then it eats you.
Taliesin: We'll shoot you first. You won't feel anything.
Sam: I'll go up and talk, but aren't you curious?
Taliesin: No, not really.
Travis: I've got your back. I'll go with you.
Laura: No.
Travis: Why?!
Taliesin: We'll send Trinket, too, so either way, you feel like you've accomplished something. You'll both die, and then you'll know that the bear goes with you.
Marisha: It's a bonding trip.
Ashley: Do you want me to stay with you on the broom?
Sam: Yes!
Laura: Oh, wait, you're taking the broom? (laughter)
Sam: Do you care more about the broom than me?
Taliesin: Don't answer that.
Sam: You've known me for years! You just met the broom!
Ashley: Maybe we can land there, and then we can send the broom back to you.
Sam: No, I need the broom to get away!
Taliesin: That's a fair point.
Travis: In order to stay alive, you need to be near the broom.
Taliesin: We'll keep an eye out, Vex. It'll be fine.
Travis: Yeah, the two gnomes go. They're not very intimidating.
Laura: I do not like this plan at all.
Taliesin: You are charming. You're both very charming, so be charming.
Ashley: I'm not that charming.
Taliesin: You're extremely charming.
Marisha: I think you find her charming.
Taliesin: She is charming.
Marisha: I find her charming, too, but it doesn't mean that other people might.
Sam: What could possibly go wrong?
Laura: Can I go on the broom with you, Scanlan?
Travis: No! Let the little bits go.
Marisha: We're still doing a do-si-do, by the way, while we're having this conversation.
Travis: Little bits go.
Sam: All right, Pikey. Let's go knock on the door and get killed.
Laura: If you fucking get my broom lost because you told me not to go, I'm going to murder you. And this is not in character. This is me telling you that.
Travis: I just want to say, that was a death threat in front of a thousand people. (laughter)
Taliesin: I think with this many witnesses, it's not a threat. It's a promise.
Marisha: Is there a nearby tree that I can climb into?
Matt: There are a number of trees in the vicinity, yes. Where this thing is, though, there is about a 30-foot distance between it and any other trees. It's in the center of a small clearing.
Taliesin: I want a good vantage.
Marisha: Yeah. I get into a vantage point. I get up into a tree, and while they go do their recon, I want to cast Commune With Nature.
Matt: All right. So as you ascend the side of the nearest tree, and it resembles Atreyu climbing up the tree in the Swamp of Sadness, as it's these large gnarled branches and bits of muck and dust falling off the sides, and the oil slick that is surrounding the base makes it difficult to find your handholds, but you do eventually get your way up into the tree over the next five to ten minutes. You were going to cast Commune with Nature, you said?
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: All right. What do you want to ask?
Marisha: Do I sense a cancerous tree in the area?
Matt: You're asking this of the tree? Or is this the land around you, right?
Marisha: Yeah, I'm not asking the tree.
Matt: You concentrate for a second. You feel yourself link with the land, and it's a very jarring sensation. You're used to connecting with nature being this serene, wonderful experience. This is like plugging into a nightmare. Suddenly, your thought process is filled with this ever-drawn sense of dread. You feel this cold sensation fill your form, and you manage to get this information across, but it leaves this very hollow feeling in the center of your being. Feeling out, you do not sense a cancerous tree, but you do sense the strengthening presence of the source of this entire swamp's perpetual destitution and slow decay, further to the northwest of this.
Marisha: Northwest. Okay. So I can safely assume that the tree that they're heading towards is not cancerous.
Matt: Correct.
Laura: So we should call them back.
Marisha: I'm meditating. Then can I get a general lay of the land and sense running water and rivers, so we can avoid those?
Matt: Okay. In feeling any source of bodies of water, you're too far from the Gilded Run to sense any of that, and there is no running water within the actual Shademirk. Everything is a very slow-rolling sludge from the direction that you initially sensed. It's this perpetual billowing of slow, crawling death. What little bit of running water you would sense is deep underground, and probably still in danger, over the next 50 years or so, of being corrupted itself.
Marisha: Oh. Okay. For my last question, can I get a sense on any big evil things that might want to kill us?
Matt: You need to be a little more specific than that. (laughter)
Marisha: Everything. More specific that I won't screw it up. Are there Twinkies? Are there any more large crocodile dudes living under the-- I don't know. Any more large things living under the swamp?
Matt: So you do a sense for large, dangerous plant life entities like that crocodile.
Marisha: Yes, under the swamp. Well, wherever. Just blanket it.
Matt: As you extend your presence, you get no images or any sense of creatures like that crocodile. However, you do sense a rather intense presence throughout this bog at certain places of other corrupted plant life entities.
Marisha: Does the tree in front of us count as a corrupted plant life entity? And none of the pixies that live in there are showing up on my radar as bad?
Matt: No. That's your final question. The spell fades. You climb your way back down out of the branches of the tree.
Marisha: This place sucks.
Laura: What did you see?
Marisha: It's so sad. The trees are so sad.
Laura: Anything useful?
Travis: They're sad, or they're angry also?
Marisha: A little bit of both.
Laura: Should we call the gnomes back?
Marisha: They're fine. (laughter)
Marisha: The presence of the distortion and the corruption is getting stronger northeast.
Travis: Then we should all go. We shouldn't just send the little bits in there, we should all go.
Laura: I don't want to fight anymore before we get to whatever it is that we're getting to.
Travis: All right.
Matt: Have the gnomes already been set on their path at this time?
Sam: We're already cruising.
Matt: Yep. So as you guys are having this discussion, the broom slowly glides up to the outside of this tree. As you get close to it, you notice, too, from your immediate position, that mass of dried roots and branches that are up top are threaded together with rope. There is definitely construction to this, almost like a wooden thatched roof. The side porthole you see does have a wooden crossbeam in the center. It is definitely a functional and pretty well-crafted window for this rather rough exterior. The roots of the tree, though it is not very tall, it is thick. It is round. It's probably a good 25, 30 feet wide, this tree's trunk, and the roots are large and sink deep into the ground in the vicinity. You see the glow from the window. What do you want to do?
Laura: Don't do it.
Sam: What? Who said that? What?
Travis: Attack the tree.
Sam: I'm getting mixed messages.
Ashley: Scanlan, I'm a little nervous about these ropes. What if they're trying to catch us or something?
Taliesin: How many windows are there?
Matt: One from what you can see.
Taliesin: Just one window?
Laura: Don't do it.
Sam: You're not there.
Marisha: I think Vex might be right.
Laura: Come back.
Sam: Come back? Should we do a fly by the window to see what's inside?
Laura: Don't even fly close to the tree. I have really bad feelings about this.
Sam: Fly by the window and peek in.
Laura: Fucking shit mother bitch!
Matt: What do you do?
Sam: Using our expert flying skills, we're going to fly by the window and do one of these, and check out the Berenstain Bears and then run.
Matt: Okay. Make a perception check.
Sam: Not good. Eight.
Ashley: Wait. Okay. I think I just have so much mud in my eye I don't see anything.
Matt: Okay. You don't pick up a lot of detail, but as you come up over the top, looking on the inside, it looks to be rather comfortable, surprisingly. It's a small home. There's a table, and there's a small hearth. There appears to be what looks to be a shelf of some kind, ramshackle, maybe, but still functional, with books pressed into it. You can see a number of small baskets hanging from the ceiling, containing various roots and other pieces of plant matter that are gathered and bundled together. You can see there is a fireplace by the hearth. There is also a series of drying animal carcasses hung in the corner that are all stripped, and they're being aired out in that space. You also see what looks to be a large chair that is facing the hearth, slightly away from you, and a small end table next to it that contains a little teacup and a little tea set.
Sam: They look nice.
Taliesin: What size person is the chair for?
Sam: Small?
Matt: Actually, the chair is pretty large. It's tall. The tea set is small. And as you're making a look, you see one large crooked hand reach out from behind the chair with impossibly long fingers with hooked nails reach over. You can see what looks like dried wrappings hanging from parts of its wrist and elbow as it reaches over and wraps its gnarled fingers around this tiny teacup and pull it back behind the chair.
Taliesin: Do you describe this?
Sam: I don't. I see it and I turn around and I say: Pike, let's get out of here.
Matt: At this point, you hear a snap sound, and next to you, you hear this (creak) as a little bit of light peeks out to your left. A door has slowly opened on the side of the tree trunk.
Ashley: Guys? Guys!
Laura: Please fly fucking back right now! Please!
Ashley: What do you want to do, Scanlan?
Sam: We bolt. We bolt for it.
Ashley: (hacking spit)
Sam: (hacking spit) And start flying.
Matt: Flying where?
Sam: Back to our friends.
Matt: Okay. You guys turn and begin making your way back towards the party, and the broom slows.
Ashley: Oh no. (laughter)
Laura: How far away is it?
Matt: It comes to a stop and then drops out from under you both (squish) into the sludge.
Ashley: Okay. That's okay.
Sam: I grab Pike, and we both go invisible.
Ashley: I pick up the broom before we go invisible.
Matt: All right, and you're casting Invisibility?
Sam: Invisibility. I guess at one level higher, right? Is that what I do?
Matt: I believe that's what you do to get more of that. Making sure real fast, so we don't mess this up.
Sam: Level three Invisibility.
Taliesin: Her house is going to have chicken feet. (laughter)
Matt: You both turn invisible, her clutching the broom.
Ashley: What?
Matt: You're both invisible now. You're clutching the broom.
Ashley: We're invisible and the broom is invisible?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: I go (surprised shriek).
Sam: We start tip-toeing out, I suppose.
Matt: You watch them vanish ahead of you. A few moments pass, and you guys end up making your way back to the group, and you see the (squish) footfalls of both of your tiny gnome friends.
Taliesin: I am watching that hag through my scope with everything I've got.
Matt: From your perspective, you can't really see anything through the window. You're just going off of what they've told you, which has been very little. You're looking into the side of the window, and all you see is a little bit of flicker of firelight. That's it.
Ashley: I go up to Vex and I give her her broom.
Laura: (relieved noises) (cheering)
Travis: What did you find? Oh. (whispering) What did you find?
Ashley: There's a woman. It looked like it was really nice, and then there was this really cute tea set, and then this crazy hand came out.
Travis: That sounds terrible.
Ashley: She looks really scary.
Marisha: Was she really tall? Do you know if she was tall?
Ashley: The chair was really big. I mean, anybody's tall to us.
Marisha: That is true.
Ashley: Yeah, she was very large.
Travis: Super important question Did they see you?
Ashley: I think probably.
Sam: Well, the broom stopped flying.
Laura: What do you mean?
Taliesin: Run.
Laura: What?
Travis: Are you saying we should hide, Percy?
Taliesin: We should go.
Travis: Where?
Matt: Clutching the broom in your hands, as you emit the phrase that you've known to bring it to vibrant magical life... (groaning)
Marisha: Oh no. (laughter)
Matt: The broom jumps to life. (cheering and laughter)
Laura: Thank you, Matt, for saving a marriage.
Ashley: Oh my god.
Matt: And there, backing up from this abode in the center of the Shademirk bog, your broom retrieved, your party members gathered, looking towards that glowing window, and now the ajar door inviting you in to some degree, we'll pick this up next session. (cheering and applause)
Matt: Well, that was fun. Thank you guys so much for joining us for this. We're going to go ahead and take a few minutes here and do a short Q and A with those of you guys we have here in the stage before we need to clean up here, and we'll do the meet and greet upstairs. That being the case, do we have a set-up over there with the microphone to ask questions?
Sam: Have we stopped broadcasting?
Matt: Oh, that's right.
Laura: Dude, you have to say good-bye.
Matt: That's right. Well, before we begin this Q and A, I want to thank you all for watching and tuning in. Thank you all so much. We'll be back next week, Thursday at our regular time slot and schedule. Thank you for joining us this Saturday, and yeah. Is it Thursday yet?

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons. And get the somewhat adjusted, altered countdown to us going live.
Travis: False start, offense.
Matt: It's great. But yes, welcome. We have just a couple of announcements to do tonight. Nothing too long and crazy. First and--
Sam: Mine's really long, Matt.
Matt: Okay, Sam's is really long. Speaking of which, let's go ahead and get us into our wonderful sponsor for tonight, Loot Crate.
All: Loot Crate!
Matt: Thank you so much, Loot Crate. Sam, if you want to tell us a little about Loot Crate.
Sam: You guys, Loot Crate. The theme this month is Magical. Brands included Dr. Strange, Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them, and more. Please make a special call out to the below Dr. Strange Q-Fig Loot Crate has announced will be in this month's crate. I just did. (laughter)
Sam: But tonight I've prepared, because we all need just some theater today. I've prepared for us a small radio play.
All: Ooh!
Sam: I'd like each of you to read a part in.
Liam: Pass 'em down, pass 'em down.
Sam: Pass it down, keep passing it down. I didn't know Ashley was going to be here, so, Ashley, you can read with Travis. You are both--
Marisha: Sam!
Sam: You are both doing it together.
Marisha: The first line--
Sam: Guys, calm down. It's sort of a Dust Bowl type of a play I wrote.
Marisha: Sam!
Sam: I wrote a play, okay?
Marisha: Do I have to say this?
Sam: Yes! You do! Come on! Guys, okay, I'll be reading stage direction, Taliesin is playing Junior, Marisha is playing Mama, Liam is Pa, Laura is playing Sam Riegel. And Travis and Laura are-- Travis and Ashley are the radio sound effects duo. Let's see how this goes. August, 1929, the Badlands, South Dakota. Lights up on the McCallister Farm. Mama, a sturdy, country woman, comes in from the windy, dusty farm and slams the door. Sound effects!
Ashley: (wind noises)
Travis: (ke-thunk)
Marisha: "Junior? Junior! Git yer slowpoke, molasses ass down here."
Sam: Oh! That's me! Enter Junior, a simpleton, down the stairs.
Travis: (ke-kunk, ke-kunk, ke-kunk, ke-kunk)
Sam: Good sound effects, guys.
Taliesin: "Sorry I didn't do no chores, Mama. I'm a simpleton!" What are you doing to me?
Marisha: "You'll be sorry when I run this cat-o-nine tails over your rear end."
Ashley: (whip sound)
Sam: Yeah, good sound effect, good sound effect.
Taliesin: "It ain't my fault because school was late because Teacher Sally died the evening before last."
Sam: Come on! Project, project!
Taliesin: "It ain't my fault school was late because, well, Teacher Sally died this evening before last."
Marisha: "Not sweet, sweet Sally. My rear end, I'm going to miss her. What did her in?" I don't even know what the fuck--
Sam: Enter Pa, a drunk. He smashes a beer bottle against the family cat.
Liam: (thumps)
Laura: No, you're not the sound effects.
Travis: (glass shattering)
Ashley: (cat snarling)
Sam: There you go. (laughter)
Liam: "Oh, same thing that kills us all around here. Dust poisoning. As we all know the Dust Bowl's full of radioactive dust. It melts your face clean off of the bone."
Marisha: "It's true. And dust ebola is the second leading cause of death in the dust bowl. My rear end just can't stand this dusty dust. Deadly dust."
Sam: It should be noted that the playwright did no historical research on the Dust Bowl. (laughter)
Sam: Junior.
Taliesin: "Here, Ma, I found your bagpipes to play at the dust funeral."
Ashley: (awful yet great impression of bagpipes) (laughter)
Sam: Good sound effects!
Liam: "Oh, Lord, what will we ever do with this dust?!"
Sam: Enter Sam Riegel, a strapping traveling salesman from the big city, played by Laura.
Laura: "Hi, folks! Handsome Sam Riegel here. Only thing more handsome than me is this here Loot Crate, featuring X-X-X."
Sam: I was supposed to put in actual stuff. Promo link "lootcrate.com/criticalrole." Keep going. (laughter)
Laura: "Once you enjoy the geeky gear inside, you can use the box to clean up, well, all this dust!"
Marisha: "Can it be? A box than can cure our woes and pick us up back onto our dusty rear ends?" What's with-- why?
All: Hooray!
Sam: And so the McCallisters used a dusty old vacuum cleaner--
Travis: (vacuum noises)
Sam: And their Loot Crates to clean up all the dust in the Dust Bowl. Thus saving their farm and the American Dream. (cheering)
Travis: Holy shit. It keeps getting better.
Sam: I'm a playwright, guys.
Marisha: A few on the fly rewrites there.
Matt: And you know, based on our viewership tonight, it's a pretty good opening night. (laughter)
Matt: Far better than most playwrights.
Sam: Thank you.
Matt: So, well done, Sam.
Sam: Good sound effects, guys.
Laura: Yeah, that was good sound effects.
Matt: Awesome. Well. Next up, we have a quick announcement that a special guest is going to come in here and tag me out. We have Brian Foster. Go ahead and tag. Boom! (cheering)
Brian: Hello, hello, hello. Man, it's been a Chris Hardweek, hasn't it?
All: Oh!
Brian: There's a giant note here that says, "Kill Grog. He's gotten too powerful." All right, so we're going to talk about Talks Machina, which is the new Critical Role after-slash-talk show. (cheering)
Brian: We've all been working on this along with a lot of people at Geek & Sundry for a super long time. So we're super excited about it. It's going to start this Tuesday at 7:00pm. You can watch it on Twitch for the first four episodes, and then those are going to be available on the VOD for Twitch and on the Geek & Sundry website. You can also watch it on a website called Pro-ject Alpha dot com. (laughter)
Brian: We're going to have two or three members of the cast on every single week. Mostly from this cast. We're also going to have celebrity guests-- previous guests from Critical Role. We're going to let them back out. We're going to let 'em back out. And we're also going to have some super fans that are going to be able to be on the show. We're going to get all dirty and nerdy. We're going to talk about the previous week's episode. We're going to give away prizes every single week. We're also going to have the near-impossible task of picking out your fanart and gifs-- I said "gifs" because "jif" sounds so mushy. It's "gif", right? Yeah, yeah.
Marisha: Yeah, living language; we decide.
Brian: It's been decided and decreed, ladies and gentlemen. So here's what we need from you-- We're going to give out a bunch of Critical Role merch, we're going to give out a bunch of D&D merch, we're going to give out stuff from our friends at Wyrmwood. (cheering)
Brian: We're going to give out, it says here, a shirtless picture of Travis Willingham riding a mechanical bull.
Laura: Oh!
Travis: The photoshoot is still TBD.
Brian: Oh, I see. Yes. (singing) He's waiting for an open tanning bed. Because we get so many-- there's so many thousands of tweets every Thursday night that go out about this amazing and weird and horrible show, we are asking that if you guys want to tweet a question for us to ask the cast live on the air, we're asking that you tweet @TalksMachina, which is the official Twitter handle for our show. And use the hashtag #AskTalksMachina because that way we can track 'em, make sure we get as many of your questions as we can on the show. Send your fanart and gifs to talksmachina@gmail.com anytime between Thursday nights during the show and Tuesdays at 9:00am Pacific Time. We're trying to feature fanart and gifs from each week's episodes since we're going to be talking about those episodes on the show on Tuesdays. So send those in. That's it. We're going to see you guys this Tuesday at 7:00pm on Twitch and Pro-ject Alpha dot com. Until then, it's high noon! (laughter)
Sam: Fix your mic there, Matt.
Travis: Yes! Look at the jaw, it's so forced.
Matt: Motherfucker. Didn't get enough of that at BlizzCon this past weekend. Okay, then. (laughs) Thank you, Brian Foster.
Ashley: That guy's hot! Is he single?
Matt: He's taken, unfortunately.
Ashley: Aw.
Matt: By you? All right, so, anyway we have one more quick announcement, Liam, if you want to take over for this.
Liam: Well it's not really an announcement, I'm just a willing accomplice with one of my favorite artist buddies. Sedona Parnham has sent something she has made specifically for Sam Riegel.
Sam: Oh, me? Oh. Why?
Liam: So it was sent to me on the sly, because you're so dear. To all of us.
Sam: Is it a radio play?
Liam: So dear. So charming. And now you will be well-rested. Please accept this gift.
Taliesin: Oh, I'm so excited.
Sam: What is this? Do I read it?
Liam: No, don't read-- it's nothing to read. Just open it up and show us all what you find.
Taliesin: Oh, my-- (laughter)
Sam: It's a pillow case. It's a pillow case.
Marisha: It's size appropriate.
Sam: The chest hair, the nipples. It's adorable, guys.
Laura: He's so cute!
Sam: This is 400 count Egyptian cotton here. (laughter)
Liam: There's only one other copy of that pillowcase, and it is mine. (laughter)
Travis: Gross. Gross.
Sam: Are we going to be sleeping on the same pillows at night?
Liam: Yeah. I mean, we need a blanket as well.
All: (singing) Somewhere out there, (simultaneous) someone's saying a prayer! (simultaneous) if love will see us through!
Travis: You're in different parts of the song.
Matt: For all you Critters who are under the age of 35, you have know idea what we're singing. I'm sorry.
Travis: Go watch American Tail and Land Before Time.
Liam: So that was from Sedona who is known as @anodesu on Twitter. She's done a ton of great art for this show. She's one of my favorites; she's a buddy now.
Sam: She's my favorite now.
Matt: Well, thank you, guys. Unless you have anything else to kick forward, I think we jump back into the chaos of the City of Brass and the elemental plane of fire on tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Hello, and welcome back, everyone. Sorry, you waited too long, Taliesin. So, last we left off, Vox Machina was slowly making their way toward the final confrontation with Thordak, the Cinder King, as well as the end of the Chroma Conclave, hopefully, or the end of modern Tal'Dorei as we know it. One way or the other. You found yourselves preparing Fort Daxio for some sort of a plot to draw Thordak out. In the process, you took the rest of your intrepid adventurers to the fire elemental plane in search of the final Vestige that you had referred to yourself by the androsphinx earlier in your adventure. Upon arriving here, you spoke with a number of efreet that ran the outskirts of the City of Brass. Entered, found yourselves immediately traced and followed, and discovering that the society here is, well, very different than ones that you're used to. You managed to barely escape a confrontation in an alleyway with two efreet. You escaped on the path of two seemingly recent-made allies for the time being, led into their establishment in which jewelry is crafted, and with a plot to hopefully find whoever this fire giant is that holds onto the Plate of the Dawnmartyr. Many of you allowed chains to be affixed to your neck and wrists so you could pass as slaves in a society where they're relatively normal under the efreet that run the city. Your new friends, Senokir and Uten, are to help guide you in the direction of the next part of your venture. So. Picking up where we left off. You guys have been led out into this main street, watching the giant lava fountain that pours out into this deeply carved pit in the center of the ground. You see flickers of flame that occasionally burst out between the various bits of stonework that make up the floor in the center of the streets here. Looking up into the sky, you can see the deep reddish-orange hue of the skyline and one burning hot sun in the sky that doesn't seem to move from its position, but grows slightly dimmer as the day goes on. You are all led out into the street with Senokir and Uten leading you out into the main area. Senokir turns back to the rest of you, this slight half-smile on his face. "So, we are to find our way to the first giant you requested. This was the one named Whaska. Is that correct?"
Laura: (whispering) Whaska. (louder) Mm-hmm.
Matt: "Let us find our way to the Zenith Forge where he does most of his work."
Travis: Forge?
Matt: "Zenith Forge. Now come. Follow me." And he tugs the chains with a sudden burst and pulls you along. As you begin walking, he begins to talk about how: "Whaska is one of the few giants that still maintains the privilege of freedom. There was a coup within their people a few years ago, seemingly orchestrated by some of their own. As such most of the fire giants in the city either were cast out or were placed in chains. And the few that remain, one of which you'll speak with on this day, is one of the ones that sold them out. So. I hope you have your questions ready."
Travis: Yeah, for you? Shitloads.
Matt: "Shh."
Travis: Sorry.
Matt: Don't talk to your master in public.
Travis: That was hot. (laughter)
Liam: I feel like you're working some shit out, here. (laughter)
Travis: Do we have a safety word?
Matt: You did not establish one. (laughter)
Laura: Oh, no.
Travis: (weakly) Oklahoma. (laughter)
All: (singing) Oklahoma.
Matt: You're led through a multitude of streets, led along the outside of this large place that he points out to you that he refers to as the furnace. "That is where the Charcoal Palace exists and the sultan of the entire city. We won't be going there."
Laura: The Chuckle Palace?
Sam: The Chocolate Palace.
Matt: "The Charcoal Palace. You are listening; you are not supposed to speak."
Laura: (whispers) I'm sorry.
Liam: Like charcoal.
Matt: "Charcoal Palace." The air itself here, as you're spending more time outside-- and the interior of these buildings aren't meant to detract heat or cool either. Most if not all of the denizens here are well-tempered against the heat. As you guys are being dragged along, I need all of you who do not have fire resistance to go ahead and make another constitution saving throw.
Taliesin: Damn it.
Travis: I'm a master of a good burn. Does that give me fire resistance?
Matt: Nope! So I think that you don't have to worry about it.
Marisha: I had cast fire resistance on me.
Matt: Yes, and how long does that last?
Marisha: It lasts an hour. Has it been an hour?
Matt: It's been about an hour now, so that's past.
Marisha: I'll recast.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to do a reroll.
Sam: This is a saving throw, or--?
Matt: A saving throw, yes. Constitution saving throw.
Sam: Am I allowed to inspire myself on a saving throw?
Matt: Only on ability checks, sorry.
Sam: 11.
Matt: 11, okay.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: All right. Vex?
Laura: Oh, 15.
Matt: All right.
Ashley: Seven. I burn to death.
Matt: All of you manage for the most part to resist the heat. Your sweat is starting to become more of a prevalent downpour across your face. Pike, you take a point of exhaustion.
All: Oh no!
Ashley: I'm just feeling so tired.
Matt: So you are currently at disadvantage on ability checks.
Marisha: The heat makes you lethargic.
Travis: I'm very familiar with that.
Laura: Well, it does.
Matt: Travis can work you through the exhaustion levels.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Heading past the buildings and constructs you see these spires that come into these rounded point towers all made from some colored glass, some dark greens and blacks. You begin to see there are deep, carved, and well-manufactured waterways or what would be considered waterways in other cities. Except here, the actual molten lava from the Sea of Fire pours through. So there are large bridges that lead over these constantly bubbling and churning long aqueducts that are filled with molten rock.
Travis: In the ground or raised or--?
Matt: In the ground. Similar to how you see most city aqueducts constructed, except for the Sea of Fire spills into it. Anything going over there is uncomfortable as the heat grows astronomically as you pass over each bridge and the air itself becomes more sulfurous. And you find yourselves coughing autonomically as the fumes reach your lungs. You begin to pass by--
Liam: We're walking out in public at this point, right? And there's people about? We see other beings about?
Matt: You do. You see as the sun which--and you've been here for two hours now so you have some time. It's still very busy in the city. And as you pass by, you see many efreet on their own business. Some coasting at different levels of height, some just traversing through. Occasionally you come across strange, horned devil-like entities that work, walk in clusters.
Liam: So, question, because I put on the Ring of Invisibility before we left.
Matt: Yes.
Liam: But Senokir, I think, might have chuckled when I gave my sister a wet willie. So as we're walking, and I've got the ring on, as we pass people I'm doing this and looking to see if anyone is reacting to that.
Matt: No one else reacts except for Senokir. Who looks back towards you with this-- (laughter)
Taliesin: Oh, God, that face.
Laura: Oh, no, he's so weird. I can hear you moving around me.
Liam: (fart noise)
Laura: Blends in with the sulfur; I don't care.
Matt: Being led through the street you eventually see two large, lithe gray-fleshed creatures that stalk by with these large hooked tails that bend over in front. You can see barbs sticking out of parts of their body and they move in clusters of three or four.
Laura: Wait, were they walking on two feet or--?
Matt: Two feet. They're bipedal. And they're stalking through--
Sam: Three feet.
Travis: With like big-ass scorpion tails?
Matt: It resembles that. The more you push into the city, the more diverse the populace becomes. And you do see the occasional human, the occasional elf, not being subjugated, though they do usually carry some sort of a bodyguard or a handful of servants at their side as well. But you do see devils walking amongst the people here. And many, many efreet that are all walking the streets with large scimitars at their side and with a uniform, a long silk vest of a dull grey charcoal pattern. And it looks to be a pendant that hangs around their neck that constantly churns with a flame. And it's a uniform for each of these, and you get the sense as they walk around singularly or in pairs, that these probably act as the patrol, as the guard of the city.
Travis: Those that are walkin' around that don't like have a bodyguard and don't seem to be enslaved, are they still wearing that white and gold cloak-y thing that our strange bit is wearing?
Matt: No. They are very diverse in their attire.
Travis: Really?
Matt: You get the sense that at least the outfits they're wearing is their signature outfit. But you also have a hard time grasping what the cultural intricacies are of the City of Brass. Being that you're Grog.
Travis: Hey, man.
Matt: As you're passing by these various aspects-- do you have a question?
Laura: Oh, I just wanted to whisper  Vax?
Liam: (coughs)
Laura: Can you pick these locks as we're walking?
Liam: (softly) Yeah.
Laura: Do it then. Subtly.
Liam: I will stealthily pick my sister's locks.
Matt: Okay. As you guys are walking past, and at this point Senokir is talking and he mentions off to the side, "We are now passing the street of artisans and the city market. This is what we call the Pyraklum. This is where we're going to find Whaska. This is where we're going to find the Zenith Forge and hopefully the end of your journey. But we can work out the specifics later." As this is happening, I need you to make a sleight of hand roll.
Liam: Get behind Grog.
Sam: (whispers) Sleight of hand roll, boy!
Liam: Well, I'm going to Luck that sucker.
Laura: Oh, God.
Liam: It doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. It's a 20.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a lockpicking check.
Liam: Okay. Okay, that's fine as well. That's 25.
Matt: Okay. It takes you the better part of about four or five blocks to very carefully, walking with your sister, keeping in pace with her gait, making sure not to rustle the chains or anything to distract Senokir or Uten as they walk along-- and Uten is being very, you know, very careful with his watch. Not just on you, but on the city overall. It's not like they're, you know, honed in on you per se, but very observant of the atmosphere. And you get the sense that Uten definitely, as far as the partnership goes, seems to be the more paranoid of the two of them. However as time goes on you eventually (click) hear the gentle release of the lock on one of her arm manacles and then slowly the other.
Liam: As I trail backwards behind her you hear twins, motherfucker! (laughter)
Matt: As you begin to approach a large black and gray building built from heavy, heavy stones--
Marisha: Can I talk to Uten a little bit while we're walking?
Travis: Is she picking your nose?
Liam: I thought the same thing! It's a scratch, no pick!
Marisha: So, do you play tour guide often to newcomers in this town?
Matt: Uten says, "It is not often that we take newcomers under our wing like this. Usually they are either customers or, well, to be arrested shortly. So, no, this is probably the first tour we've given. Senokir seems to strangely enjoy it."
Marisha: Playing tour guide?
Matt: "Apparently!" Motions over and Senokir, other hand out, is like, "And around this way, you can see the Fenstral Spire, which is a wonderful craft fair that happens once every two weeks!" Uten goes back to you.
Laura: He's making shit up as he's walking.
Marisha: Seems he has quite a love for the City of Brass. How long have you all been residents here?
Matt: "We've been in business together for about the better part of ten years. I've only been here about 12. It was a very dangerous scavenge to begin, but at least the laws of the normal world do not apply here. I have no idea how long Senokir's been here. He keeps a lot to himself, that one, but I trust him."
Marisha: And your business mainly deals in--
Matt: "Fine jewelry. I showed you our establishment."
Marisha: Well, as you mentioned, people ending in arrest, are you bounty hunters?
Matt: "No! I must admit, our life is not as interesting as you might be expecting, and I am sorry for that. I will say, probably should not be talking so much right now."
Marisha: Sure. Go, slaves! Walk! Forward! Like you do!
Travis: Why are you talking to us like that?
Marisha: Because-- shut up, slave! And I smack Grog with the flail.
Matt: Doesn't physically hurt, but emotionally, there's a scar.
Travis: I'm wounded! I've been gashed open!
Marisha: Forward march! (whip crack)
Taliesin: To be fair, he didn't say Oklahoma.
Marisha: You never said Oklahoma.
Travis: It's dangerous to keep a race car at a red, I'm just saying, I'm a race car at a fucking red. Pulp Fiction!
Matt: As you continue pushing forward, eventually you come to that gray building with heavy gray and dark stones. It's large, square in shape, and you see an oversized chimney that bellows out constant black smoke that pours upward into infinity. There are a number of stacks like that throughout the entirety of the city, hundreds that all eventually bleed together as they all mingle and join in the atmosphere, whatever this atmosphere is consisting of. The large doors are partially open, they're about 20 feet tall and about 20 feet as wide as well. They are made from a very dark wood, but as you get close, it's just a textured stone. You see a dull light from the inside.
Sam: Where are we, Master?
Matt: "Welcome to the Zenith Forge. So, once we enter, I would have to be the one to ask all the questions, but that would be difficult for us to do. So the choice is yours. Either we try and find a careful way to funnel questions, or we put our cards on the table and you do the talking."
Marisha: Well, I can alter myself to look like you, if you can hang back.
Matt: "You already look like Uten and other compatriots. You can still speak, I just want to make sure that, well, our slaves don't talk out of turn."
Marisha: Sure.
Travis: Have you spoken with a fire giant before?
Matt: "It's been a while. Since the upset socially, I found it best to not deal with them outside of a customer-patron relationship."
Travis: So weird. Are they good conversationalists?
Matt: "They're curious."
Ashley: You seem a little bit nervous. I can't really tell because you're so strange in a wonderful way. (laughter)
Matt: "You're sweet, little one."
Ashley: Thank you.
Matt: "They're very big."
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: "And consider that since they kept their freedom, they're probably rather cunning."
Ashley: Bigger than him?
Matt: "You'll see."
Ashley: Oh.
Matt: As he begins to tug the chains and pull you through the doorway.
Sam: Shit. What questions are we asking?
Laura: I guess we have to ask, like, hey do you have any cool collections? Do you play cards? Have you won a lot? Stuff like that.
Marisha: Yeah. What's going to make him give us this thing anyway? Do we have anything to give him?
Laura: Well, aren't we going to try and steal it once we see it? Or are we really going to try and purchase it?
Travis: Maybe he's got beef with somebody in the city and we'll go out and jack 'em up if he'll tell us where--
Laura: Or maybe if we see that he has it then we can challenge him to a game of cards?
Marisha: Or maybe-- oh!
Sam: If we see that he has it. How do we know that he has it?
Travis: Yeah, he might not have it.
Marisha: Yeah, he might not have it.
Liam: You could also chat with him and I could walk over and take it.
Marisha: Well maybe he won't know its value.
Travis: It's a suit of armor, though.
Laura: That he can't fit into because he's huge and it's for normal people.
Marisha: You still have your Locate Item, correct?
Laura: I do! Oh yeah!
Sam: Use it. Now!
Laura: Okay! I use it.
Taliesin: Now!
Matt: You're going to stop as you're being pulled into the foyer of this building in chains, and you're going to begin to cast the spell.
Laura: Oh, do I have to stop? I can't do it as we're walking?
Matt: I mean you can do it, it's a visual thing.
Taliesin: We can hold him.
Marisha: Senokir, hold?
Taliesin: One moment!
Marisha: Senokir?
Matt: "Yes?"
Taliesin: We're going to--
Marisha: Hang on, a little bit of preparation on our end, if you don't mind.
Matt: "All right. Then decide. I mean, if you wish to progress--"
Laura: As he's talking I start doing it. (laughter)
Matt: All right, it's really quick. And you basically have to pull out your component from the side there, it's a little twig and you snap it. And you continue the ritual. All right. You concentrate for a second as he's talking, and currently no. You do not sense it.
Laura: Okay. And that lasts for ten minutes?
Marisha: But it can point us in the right direction.
Matt: It lasts for up to ten minutes, yeah.
Travis: Was it 1000 feet?
Matt: 1000 feet.
Travis: Radius.
Laura: Senokir, how large is the forge?
Matt: "Well, here it's a few rooms. It's large enough to house Whaska and his servants to construct the crafts that they are good at."
Travis: What do they construct?
Matt: "As far as I know, arms, armor. You see, fire giants, they find their sense of self-worth in society by their craftsmanship. So it's a very important thing for some."
Travis: Right. Yeah. So, like, wheels? Or like weapons? Arms? You said arms.
Matt: "I said arms."
Travis: I have a hard time listening when you talk like that.
Matt: "Would you like me to speak slower?"
Travis: It might help, you know--
Laura: No! That's all right.
Taliesin: No. That's just fine.
Matt: "So. Are you to funnel questions, or do you wish to ask as a troupe?"
Travis: Funnel them.
Taliesin: Funnel them.
Laura: Funnel them.
Matt: "Then decide on your questions now, or covertly speak once we enter. But we cannot stay here in the open and continue to talk long."
Sam: Three questions, quick.
Travis: Yeah. Has he heard of the Dawnmartyr?
Taliesin: We're looking for a suit of armor he may have won in a card game.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Looking--
Travis: And maybe he didn't win it, but has he seen it, heard of it--
Laura: Right. Has he seen a suit of armor--
Taliesin: --that vanished during a card game?
Travis: Question two. Does he know where it may be?
Taliesin: It has great emotional value.
Travis: And question three, if he doesn't want to tell us where, is there someone that he has an errand that he need run in exchange for--
Marisha: Do we mention the Suutan bloodline or do you think that would be bad blood? Is that bad?
Travis: (singing) Hey maybe now we've got--
All: (singing) --bad blood!
Laura: I don't know. Does Senokir think that that would be bad?
Marisha: Is it a bad idea to mention the Suutan bloodline?
Matt: "I don't know." (laughter)
Marisha: I'm sorry, you just seem to know so much about this fine city.
Matt: "I know enough. But I don't know of the bloodline specifically. I've heard of it. You can certainly inquire within. That's why we're here!"
Travis: Yeah, that's three! Has he heard of them, does he know where it is and if he won't tell us, does he need an errand run, and Suutan bloodline.
Laura: Senokir, where are you from originally?
Matt: "These questions aren't pertinent at the moment."
Laura: That's true. I was just curious; you're so interesting.
Matt: "Thank you. Now, shall we?"
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yes, let's.
Matt: Gives a tug on the chain, leads you guys inside.
Marisha: Sorry, guys.
Matt: The interior is very dimly lit. Thankfully, most of you have some form of darkvision. This is an open, heavy hall where, in the distance, you can see four different forges that are burning simultaneously. They are being fed by a small trail of the exterior sea of lava that is being funneled into the back corner. Within, you can see there is a large anvil in the center of the room as well as a number of smaller anvils off to the side. It appears to be four human-sized figures-- you can make out the shadow of them in the darkness. They appear to be human or human-like and they're in the process of moving things behind. They have troughs of water so they can quench the heated weapons. There at the center anvil, you see a large, hulking figure standing. Dark black leather apron across the torso, currently holding with heavy tongs this large, superheated piece of metal. Red sparks fly and illuminate the room with one hit. The second splash of light, as you see this piece of metal being slowly rotated from side to side. It's beaten into a heavier shape, the dark metal having a bladed edge to it, the actual length of it probably twice the size of Grog.
Liam: What's the guesstimate on this fella's height?
Matt: I'd say in the neighborhood of 20 feet. 16 to 20 feet from this vantage point.
Laura: I guess he's the size of the zombie giants we fought.
Marisha: In Whitestone.
Matt: (hammering) "So? Go."
Marisha: You want me to talk first? Yeah, no, okay.
Matt: "Well, you're the one who wants to ask questions."
Marisha: Yeah. I got this.
Travis: Don't fuck it up.
Laura: Don't fuck it up.
Marisha: Thanks, guys.
Sam: I'm hanging back behind Percy here.
Marisha: Does this guy have a name, Senokir?
Laura: Whaska.
Marisha: Right. Sorry. Good day, fair Whaska. Strong Whaska.
Matt: The last hit strikes the blade before the hammer pulls back. The currently hunched and focused fire giant suddenly pulls back, and is standing. You see the glowing iron metal off the side, gently gliding across the ground and scraping the stone before it comes to rest at the side. The giant stands at its full height. You can see the heavily red bearded chin of itself gently singed on the edges. The dark gray ash-like skin of the face looks down at you, the eyes glowing with piercing red dots through the shadow. "Yes?"
Marisha: Hi. I am Keyleth of the Ashari druids. Sorry. I was curious if I could ask you a few questions and just take a moment of your time, which I'm sure is very valuable.
Matt: The metal blade lifts and smacks the ground with a resounding (ting) sound that rings. All the other individuals working at the forges stop their work and look up.
Marisha: We promise we can make it worth your time.
Matt: The giant looks back. Does this with his hand, you hear the wind resistance across his massive arm, and all the rest of the servants gather their materials and begin to finish what they're doing quickly and set them aside. As they begin to go about finishing up their business, Whaska takes the large, unfinished metal blade and sets it onto the anvil, puts the tongs down with this heavy, echoing clack in this large chamber. The apron gets removed and tossed over the rest of the materials and tools and walks up (slow, heavy footsteps) and stands there looking straight down at all of you, towering over your group, backlit from the glow of the red forge hue behind him. "You may ask your questions."
Marisha: We are in search of a piece of armor, something that holds great weight and many legends behind it.
Matt: "Then I have probably made it." (chuckles)
Marisha: Maybe you have. It is called the Plate of the Dawnmartyr. Are you familiar with this?
Matt: His eyes squint a bit. "I am not familiar with this. I did not make this armor you ask."
Marisha: I don't believe it is from this realm, but it resides here. It was won by a fire giant, as yourself, in a game of cards.
Matt: "A game of cards?"
Marisha: Or some call them card games. (sighs and laughter)
Matt: "I may know who you would actually be seeking."
Marisha: Really? That would be phenomenal information.
Matt: "This information that would lead you to this powerful, legendary, sought-after armor you seek-- is it worth a lot to you?"
Marisha: Well look, you shouldn't compare it to you or the things you've made, right? I'm sure--
Matt: He crosses his arms. You hear the clatter of the metal bracers he has on cling against each other as his muscles tense.
Marisha: Yes, it's very valuable for us to find it! Yes.
Matt: "Then--" He begins to walk over to the side (footsteps) grabs something in the shadow and you hear this scraping sound (creak) of heavy wood being dragged across stone as he lifts up and slams in front of you a table. A little bit larger height than you, you can look just above it, but it's a relatively large table. (boom) "Then make your offer."
Marisha: I'm assuming you don't want me to--
Travis: (coughs) Jewels.
Marisha: Right. (quietly) Do we still have all those jewels?
Laura: Ask Senokir what he means.
Marisha: I look at Whaska and I say  Let me confer with my other masters. Hey, Senokir, what does he want? What do you think is fair here?
Matt: "Well, usually as a craftsman, they want something of their craft, perhaps."
Marisha: Craft? They want something-- okay.
Matt: "Or you could always ask."
Marisha: Sure. Yeah. I'll ask. Whaska!
Matt: "Yes?"
Marisha: In speaking with my fellow masters, we want to make sure we give you something that is fair and desired. Is there anything that you might have on your wish list?
Matt: He reaches forwards and rummages through a small pouch that's affixed to the side of his belt. When I say a small pouch, small by his comparison, the pouch is about the size of you, Keyleth, and as his fingers dig around inside you hear the clanging of heavy metal and various other objects slamming into each other. As he pulls out some sort of strange, small cylinder, he lifts it to his eye and peers through it.
Marisha: Oh, he's looking to see what we got!
Matt: Scans through.
Laura: Oh no!
Matt: "For servants you all walk with many enchanted, powerful, and desirable affixions to yourselves."
Marisha: You are a very intelligent and observant man.
Matt: Puts away the cylinder into the pouch.
Marisha: Giant, fire, respected fire giant.
Matt: "Offer me some of what you could give up. And should it be worth the information you seek, it will be yours."
Marisha: Let me once again confer with my masters and enchanted servants. Okay, guys, what have we got?
Taliesin: I've got a Ring of Lightning Resistance.
Laura: Don't you have a lot of fucking weapons in your Bag of Holding?
Travis: They're just normal weapons. There's a Greatsword of Frenzy, but--
Laura: That's not bad. Greatsword of Frenzy!
Marisha: Yeah, Greatsword of Frenzy, yeah. Whatever. And you said, a ring?
Taliesin: I've got a Ring of Lightning Resistance.
Travis: Oh! My war mask! My war helmet.
Marisha: It's not magical, though.
Sam: You built that thing!
Laura: Oh, that's right, the helmet.
Travis: It's crafted, though. It's like--
Sam: But it's so ugly.
Laura: Yeah, but it's hideous. And they said they didn't do it very well.
Taliesin: We did okay.
Travis: It's inscripted. It's got my title on the inside.
Marisha: I've got my magic choker.
Sam: That won't even fit his thumb!
Taliesin: I would put it on Pinterest. Maybe we could tell him it's a thimble. We could tell him it's a handcrafted thimble.
Liam: How high up is that side?
Matt: It's about eight feet up.
Travis: Don't fucking-- don't even.
Liam: All right, that's pretty tall, that's pretty high.
Matt: Yeah, you'd have to leap for that, man. You're not pickpocketing a giant without some high rolls. Mind you, you can certainly try. I would love for you to try.
Travis: Got to feed those forges with something!
Marisha: Okay. I have a Ring of Protection +1 that no one's been using because it's just a Ring of Protection +1. Which is good, by the way.
Taliesin: And I have the Ring of Lightning Resistance.
Liam: I have two Vestiges.
Laura: Do you want to try this Greatsword of Frenzy?
Marisha: Yeah, let's do the Greatsword.
Travis: What about the Alchemy Jug?
Taliesin: No!
Liam: No way!
Travis: Which we have used-- what?
Laura: Doesn't matter, it's too cool! You make mayonnaise out of that all the time!
Marisha: And I have my +1 magic necklace.
Taliesin: Are you using that?
Marisha: No.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: You hear the heavy foot taps of an impatient--
Marisha: Okay, all right. Here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to take the Greatsword and the Ring of Lightning Resistance and put it on the table.
Matt: Can someone run that to me real fast, if you don't mind?
Sam: Coming!
Taliesin: (hums "Yakety Sax")
Marisha: I'm glad we didn't sell any of this stuff over the course of time.
Matt: So you take the big Greatsword and (crash) put it on there, and take the ring, place it up there with it. Both of his large, meaty fire giant hands grasp the side of the table as he leans down and looks them over very intently. Takes the blade, holds it in his hands. "This is a very good start."
Marisha: Oh, yeah. Well, lucky you! I also happen to have this awesome Magic Choker +1.
Travis: Choker? Did you offer the fire giant a fucking choker?
Taliesin: He can wear it as a pinkie ring.
Marisha: I also offered him a tiny ring. He's going to use it.
Taliesin: It's going to be like a little eyebrow piercing.
Matt: As you place it there, he glances at it for a second. The little, burning pupils of the giant look up towards you. "It was a strong start. Not a very strong follow up." As he leans back up, he says--
Marisha: Wait! That's a two-for-one deal, because it also comes with this Ring of Protection. You just hadn't let me get that far yet.
Travis: Arms, arms!
Laura: He doesn't want jewelry, he wants arms!
Marisha: Oh, he wants arms, right. It's a Ring of Protection. That's cool.
Laura: Yeah, but it's not weapons.
Matt: He seems unmoved by the presentation of the ring. He says, "You are to make one more offer. If you do not, I will tell the Illuminated of the dubious outsiders masquerading as servants. Slaves sent to undermine the rule of the The Grand Sultan of the Efreet, The Lord of the Flame, The Potentate Incandescent, The Tempering and Eternal Flame of Truth, The Most Puissant of Hunters, Marshall of the Order of the Fiery Heart, The Smoldering Dictator, The Crimson Firebrand Marrake al-Sidaan al-Hariq ben Lazan."
Travis: God bless you.
Matt: "So. What is your final offer?"
Marisha: Was that one man's resume?
Travis: Vax, give him all of your Vestiges! (laughter)
Marisha: What if we give him some of the dragon scales?
Travis: What about the black sapphire?
Laura: I mean, we do have dragon scales. We do have a fuck-ton of dragon scales.
Sam: But he wants arms!
Marisha: Hang on! Whaska! A great craftsman such as yourself deserves only the finest of materials. How about some (whispers) dragon scales? Dragonhide? White dragon, what kind of dragonhide? White dragonhide.
Matt: One large hard raises up, and begins to tug at the edge of his beard.
Marisha: A lot of white dragonhide. I think we even have a fair amount.
Travis: Leave it.
Laura: Just let it go.
Matt: "Make your offer."
Laura: Get it out of the bag of holding.
Matt: His finger taps the edge of the table.
Sam: Put it on the table, people.
Laura: Give him, like, 40 pounds of white dragonhide.
Marisha: Yeah, he needs a lot. He's gonna have a big loincloth. A really big loincloth.
Taliesin: That's going to be weird.
Travis: 40 pounds of white dragonhide.
Laura: Right? Can we do it like that?
Matt: Yeah. You go ahead and unveil and put 40 pounds of white dragonhide--
Marisha: I want to make sure it's like, "One, two, three, four, five--" Five minutes later, "37--"
Laura: But it's better if it's one big piece, as opposed to a bunch of tiny little pieces.
Matt: You manage to pull all of the hide out. With flourish. As you finish, Whaska's mouth turns into this wide grin, as his arms go out (thump) scoop it all to his end of the table. "Your respect will be remembered." He takes the handfuls of it, and the sword, puts the rings into the pouch, takes the sword and jams it into his belt, takes the hide, and walks over to the side and opens this large chest. Throws everything into the side of it. Closes it. And begins to walk over. As he walks away from it you hear this heavy metal click when he's about 15, 20 feet from the chest. He steps to the table. "Now--" He then rests his elbows on the table, folding his hands under his chin, leaning forward towards you, and looks over the rest of the troupe. "There are two other fire giants here. One is Sugan. Sugan, well, was the brains behind our positions. I have this foundry and this forge because Sugan led us against our people. He currently enslaved most of our kin, with my help, and with the help of Juuraiel, and her late husband, Guras. Sugan, he currently resides within the foundry itself, as a respected chain lord to the rest of his kind. Do not speak to Sugan. You seek Juuraiel. Juuraiel runs a powerful slag mine in the pits. Her home is outside the Shrine to Surtr, called the Smoking Hammer Shrine. Look for the spiraling tower of black iron and copper. If there is any problems--" And he reaches back, and pulls forward a small, square, metal icon. And he flicks it over towards you. It looks like a small piece of copper in his thumb. But as he flicks it in your direction, you reach out instinctively to grab it, Keyleth, and then realize, "Oh, shit!" And you have to back out of the way as it (loud thud). Roughly the size of a manhole cover.
Marisha: It's a ring?
Matt: It's a large piece of square metal. You look at it and it has a series of runes that you recognize as being Giant imprinted into the metal. "This will grant you respect and conversation with Juuraiel. Should she show any resistance, just tell her I gave it to you."
Marisha: Thank you. I go over and I start trying to (grunts) pick it up.
Matt: Make a strength check. (laughter)
Travis: Use your legs. Bend the knees.
Taliesin: Oh, no!
Liam: Pull a hammie?
Marisha: Eight total.
Matt: You can get it a few inches off the ground--
Marisha: Or just a check, right? Just a straight check?
Matt: Yeah, just with your modifier.
Marisha: Okay, then five.
Matt: You get it a few inches off the ground before it (crashing sound) hits the ground with a resounding clang.
Marisha: (hisses in pain)
Matt: Almost got your finger, but you're fine.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Do you want me to?
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: C'mon, Beast Mode!
Laura: You're so strong, Pike.
Ashley: I'll give it a try.
Sam: C'mon, Pike! Lift that thing!
Laura: Get it!
Ashley: Oh, definitely not. Just doesn't even move. That's a seven.
Matt: Between the two of you, given about five minutes, you guys could eventually carry it.
Marisha: You wouldn't happen to have a wallet version, would you? Don't worry about it!
Taliesin: Can we put it in the Bag of Holding?
Matt: Grabs the table and moves it back to the space he got it. (thunderous claps) "Our business is done. Good luck. And should you find yourself in any trouble, you never heard my name." Turns back to the anvil, slowly puts on the apron, and goes right back to work. (metal ringing) Holds the metal over into the large furnace to the side to let it glow to a brighter orange, to white at the tip, and begins hammering once more. As you guys gather the rest of your strength to pull that along with you.
Laura: Sexiest fire giant I ever did see.
Liam: Who was that?
Matt: There is this awkward pause. Whaska stops and looks over. (laughter)
Travis: She's touched. Just don't worry about her.
Marisha: Oh, Whaska! Is it okay if I ask one last question?
Matt: "Depends on the question. What do you ask?"
Marisha: How do fire giants feel about the name, the Suutan-- Oh, wait. I already asked him that. Never mind. You know what, been a huge help. (laughter)
Travis: You're not going to fist-bump, or anything?
Matt: (metal ringing) Goes right back to hammering.
Sam: Have you heard of the Plate of the Dawnmartyr?
Marisha: Is it too late to roll an insight check to make sure he was telling us the whole story?
Matt: You could roll one now to gain his current composure while he's hammering the large sword.
Marisha: That's pretty good. 25.
Matt: He seems focused on his work and cares less about your presence now than he did when you entered.
Travis: How heavy is that thing?
Marisha: You know, it's more cumbersome? It's awkward.
Sam: Doesn't have handles.
Marisha: It's very wide. I can't really--
Sam: Like picking up a box.
Marisha: Yes. But it's not that heavy.
Travis: You guys are doing a great job with that, really.
Marisha: Thank you.
Taliesin: It's like a piece of pre-packaged Ikea furniture.
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: How is it they didn't design this to fit into a car.
Matt: As Keyleth and Pike carry it along at an angle because of height difference.
Ashley: Got to take a second to switch hands.
Matt: Wait, wait, oh oh oh!
Marisha: You walk backwards.
Taliesin: We bought the new bed frame. It's called the "Nupe."
Travis: No you go first, you go first.
Ashley: I'll go backwards, I'll go backwards.
Travis: Turn it over!
Marisha: Are you okay going down the stairs? Okay, okay.
Ashley: Okay. (clanging sound effects)
Liam: As we leave, I give the saddest puppy stare to that wallet on the side of his belt and wish upon a star. And then I leave.
Matt: All right. You guys make your way out into the main thoroughfare. Senokir turns back. "Very well. I know where this shrine is, so follow me."
Laura: (imitates Senokir) Great. We will.
Ashley: (imitates Senokir) Great.
Travis: (whispers) Weird.
Matt: "Are you mocking me?"
Laura: What? What are you talking about?
Matt: "Right. Continue, please." Pulls the chains a little bit.
Travis: (choking noise)
Matt: An extended period of time to make it towards where the mines and the pits are for the next hour or so, walking through the streets. As you're heading in this northward direction, you pass by a series of intersections where a lot of these lava rivers merge and splinter off. You can see there are individuals that are taking elements of it and carrying off large metallic buckets. You also notice in the distance one very terrifying-looking structure. All the rest have this beautiful, grandiose design to them. There is one that looks like it is made of curved obsidian spikes, like a series of giant, clawed hands climbing up over themselves. It forms a bastion in the center of the city. This is on the outskirts of the furnace that you walked past or saw in the distance when you first left Senokir's establishment. Pressing beyond that, you notice that there is a heavy number of nasty-looking devilish entities that seem to be running patrol around the outside of that building. You get the essence that there's a heavy devil presence in the City of Brass. Devils of multiple kinds, you gather. Many you've never seen before. But they seem to be gathering around and have that same terrifying essence to them. You see some that are humanoid, but covered in long chains with hooks at the end, dragging on the ground behind them. You see some that are these nasty little impish looking creatures that leap from section to section and usually travel in packs. But they all have business; they carry small satchels at their side. They mingle with the rest of the efreet and the other denizens of the city unmolested, unbothered, unprovoked.
Liam: I wave at a couple. Quietly.
Matt: From a distance, you're not getting too close. No one seems to pay mind.
Laura: Senokir, what is that place?
Matt: "That is the embassy. We shouldn't go by there."
Travis: Why? What's in the embassy?
Matt: "Well, that's where the ambassadors to the Nine Hells reside."
Travis: Right. Nine. That's a lot.
Marisha: Is it like a cityscape?
Sam: We have diplomatic immunity.
Travis: Senokir, did that exchange go about the way you thought it would?
Matt: "Sure." (laughter)
Travis: Good.
Liam: This guy likes to party.
Matt: As you continue, eventually you come upon the outside of this beautiful temple that is made of hundreds of heavy, dark iron and metal hammers that are all molded together in this mish-mash that forms this giant archway. As you walk past it, Senokir pipes up again, "And that is the Smoking Hammer Shrine that was spoken of. Which means--" And he points over to the right. There you can see-- it resembles a home that is conical in its advancement. It's thick at the base, and it spirals upward, made of black metallic substance. Rough around the edges, like it's been pushed together, similar to the shrine you saw. But it's this spiral that continues upward. This very thick spiral that quickly tapers off into a point. You see there are levels to it, and there appear to be openings and windows. This is an abode of some kind. A very massive abode, and to a certain extent one of the more impressive buildings you've seen in this immediate vicinity.
Laura: Big enough for a giant to live in?
Matt: Easily. As you get to the front of the building, there are no windows that lead to the bottom floor. There is one very heavy door that is a half-circle. You're not sure how, where, or from which direction it opens, but it is this big, round, metal slab that stands there at the front. You do see a brass knob in the center of it, that is roughly about eye-height to you, Grog. And that's the extent of it. As you approach, Senokir turns around, "So I believe we've found our way to the home of Juuraiel, as you acquired the information about. Your turn."
Marisha: Yes, we know. Sorry.
Matt: "So? What is your intent here?"
Sam: Well, gang. I don't feel like we should say the name of the thing that we want, in case she doesn't know what it is?
Laura: Maybe describe it? I feel like the more we make it seem like it's valuable to us, the more they're going to ask in return. So maybe make it seem less valuable?
Liam: She won it in a card game and hung it on the wall as a decoration.
Laura: She could think it's a fucking trinket. It could be like nothing. It could be like a candlestick.
Travis: Do I know if giants have any natural enemies that they hate?
Matt: Other giants. Well, they have, depending on the type of giant, many natural enemies, usually that exist within the topography they're used to. You only really know about stone giants in the Cliffkeep. And maybe hill giants. There is no specific, sworn, vengeful enemies to the stone giants that you're aware of.
Travis: Did he say that Sugan, being the brains of the two, enslaved other giants?
Matt: You got the essence that there was a large coup. There was a larger free citizenship of fire giants that existed within the city. Through some circumstance, these three currently remaining giants sold the rest of their kind within the city into slavery or had them ousted. The three that did so elevated their social status and became more powerful figures within the City of Brass.
Travis: I think you might have to play him in a game of cards.
Sam: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: Wait, Keyleth will?
Marisha: No. I will not.
Laura: Scanlan will.
Marisha: That's a Scanlan or a Percy thing.
Sam: Me?!
Travis: (singing) You're a hustler, baby!
Liam: I don't want to do anything. I want you to win this in a game of cards. But I'll be a plan B. They're not going to see me.
Taliesin: If you have the magic still, we could find out precisely where the armor is.
Marisha: That's true. That spell lasts for ten minutes, the Locate Item spell.
Laura: So I'd have to cast it again. I only have one more level two spell because I don't have very many spells.
Marisha: I can cast it, because I shouldn't speak here.
Travis: You did so good, though.
Marisha: Thanks!
Travis: Oh, fair fire giant! Fair? Hammering at an anvil. 20 feet tall. Oh, fair, gentle fire giant!
Marisha: Oh, giant. My fair giant.
Travis: Do we do the spell when we get up there, or now?
Laura: Do it now, because it's 1,000 feet.
Marisha: I'll cast Locate Item.
Matt: All right. As you go and pull up your component, you snap a twig.
Marisha: No one's around and going to maim me, right?
Matt: You take a moment to wait until there's no immediate approaching individuals that might see it. As far as spells go, it still requires a lot of physical action, but you can keep it condensed. As soon as you finish, you feel the immediate glowing beacon of your intent within that structure.
Marisha: It's here.
Taliesin: Is it on the ground floor? Or does it feel like it's above us?
Matt: It appears to be maybe 25 feet up from where you currently are at an angle, on the inside of the building.
Marisha: It's going to be right on the inside, hanging on the wall.
Travis: Can't Vax do some Spider-Man shit and check out the windows? He's all invisible.
Sam: It's risky.
Travis: Why? If he falls, nobody will see it. We'll just hear it.
Liam: Yeah! And then you pretend like you tripped!
Marisha: Are there really high windows?
Matt: There are no windows on the bottom floor. On the second floor up, there are, yes. Which is about 40 feet up.
Laura: No, it's definitely on the first floor.
Marisha: They're 20 feet high, so, high up.
Laura: That's what it is. It's on the first floor, up high.
Liam: So let me go.
Sam: Yeah, dude! This is what you do!
Laura: He just said there were windows on the second floor.
Liam: I'm already climbing. Would this be acrobatics?
Matt: For climbing, this would be athletics.
Liam: Athletics. Dang it, Bobby. That's a 16.
Matt: Dang it, Bobby! All right. Thanks to the rough construction of this building, it isn't too difficult to find handholds, though there are certain moments where you have to leap and catch to get there. It takes you probably the better part of 15 minutes to eventually get up to that area. The first opening you see, even though it's a window, is an oval porthole in the side of that structure. As you glance inside, getting your arm up in there, you are inside a servants' quarters, but even the servants' quarters are very large. It's simple. You see two beds in there, but the beds are 30 feet long, 20 feet wide with various hides and furs that have been patched together in this quilt-like fashion, but haphazard in their stitching. Other than that, it's not very pretty.
Liam: I think there might be a lot of giants potentially in here at any one time.
Matt: You see two very large metallic pissing pots that currently reside at the edge of each bed.
Laura: Eww, you could take a swim in it! (disgusted noises)
Matt: Were you so inclined, you definitely could.
Liam: But nobody in here now?
Matt: Nobody in here now, no.
Liam: Are there any other windows along from where I am? I know they would be a ways off.
Matt: It's a ways off to the next one, but you could try to climb over if you'd like to.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: I need you to make another athletics check for me.
Liam: That's a 19.
Matt: You slowly shimmy over. While the rest of you guys are waiting, as you're sitting there, you can't see what's happening; you occasionally see a pebble (thunk) and a bit of dust fall. Senokir's like, "Well, how about we walk around for a moment, so we aren't looking weirdly in public doing nothing."
Sam: You're right. If you think we're looking weird, we should trust that.
Matt: "Well said." Tugs the chain, and you guys begin to be dragged in a heavy circle around the nearby street.
Marisha: I radio over the earpiece to Vax and say, hey, we're going to walk the block.
Liam: Yeah cool, I'm just hanging.
Matt: All right. You leap over, grasping, lose your hand for a second, and get back up there. The soreness is starting to kick in; you're not used to this much physical activity of this type of strength, and it's kicking your ass.
Liam: So fast, but so weak.
Matt: So fast, but so weak. It's already hot here, and the beads of sweat are pouring down your face at this point.
Liam: I have little indoor fans, like I'm a baseball mascot.
Matt: Yeah, basically. Thankfully you have fire resistance so you don't have to worry about the heat getting too much on you. It's more of the physical exertion that's getting you. You do eventually pull over to the next window. As you get to it, you pull up into the lip, and as you reach out to grab, your hand hits something. You look up, and you see that this particular opening has an imperfect, thick glass window or at least a glass surface that is currently blocking the entrance. This is actually a window that is closed.
Liam: Is it transparent?
Matt: Somewhat transparent, yes.
Liam: So it's just cloudy?
Matt: It's somewhat opaque, because of the nature of its creation it wasn't perfect glass. It's about that thick, and the entire oval is about six feet high, and about four feet wide.
Liam: Can I check for traps?
Matt: Sure, go for it. Make an investigation check.
Liam: Okay, oh good, 27.
Matt: All right. This window is trapped. As you glance around, you can see that it is. It is a window that has a slot on the side. The glass is wider than the window in a slot that's pulled up through chains that you gather would probably lift it from the inside, like a winch that would pull it open or closed. However, on the bottom, you can see along the edge. On the very bottom edge, you can see some sort of slight bit of material that doesn't match both the glass or the blackened iron structure of this building. It's a silver plate that rests where the glass sits down. As soon as it would move, a weight would shift, and something would happen.
Liam: Looking at it, do I think I could disarm it from this side? Or is it something from the inside of the room?
Matt: It would need to be something from the inside. Even if you were to attempt to do it from the inside, you would have to be at the base of the structure. From this side, it's too big for you to do anything, really.
Liam: Okay, and I can't see shit.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: Natural 20.
Matt: Which gives you a total of?
Liam: Oh, perception? A total of 32.
Matt: All right. As you peer in and close your eye on the inside, you can see another bedroom similar to the one over there that you just passed by. But this one is exorbitant in its decor. You see beautiful deep red tapestries along each wall that are the full length of it. The bed itself is a canopy bed that is 40 feet tall with heavy dark silks and fabrics that dangle from it. This is a gaudy bedroom for some sort of a giant.
Liam: Any armor on the walls?
Matt: No armor visible from this perspective, no. You do see small pieces of art. There are other metallic trinkets that are built into the wall. But nothing that resembles armor, unfortunately.
Liam: Well, my arms are starting to do this thing so I'm going to start going down.
Taliesin: There's a giant velvet Elvis.
Matt: You eventually make your way down and wait for the rest of your group to return. You guys had a nice awkward walk being led quietly through the street and back around.
Travis: Can we be the monks from Monty Python?
Taliesin: Pie Iesu Domine. Dona Eis Requiem.
Matt: As you guys begin chanting to yourselves, Senokir goes, "Actually... sure, go ahead," and keeps pulling you along as you guys chant in whatever phrases you decide upon. You come back around and you see the rest of them arriving at the door, although they cannot see you. Senokir does glance over in your direction. "Ah, it appears that our walk was just enough time."
Laura: Oh shit, you can see him?
Matt: "I have my ways, yes."
Ashley: What kind of ways?
Matt: "Your brother is a fun character."
Laura: You mean a dick?
Matt: "From your standards, yes. Being from where I'm standing, I find it hilarious." (clipped laughter)
Travis: Oh god, his laugh's the worst.
Matt: "Now shall we?"
Ashley: Let's?
Sam: We don't even know how this door works. What if it's like a DeLorean and flips up or something?
Laura: Do you know how to open this door?
Ashley: Do we just knock?
Matt: "Well, let's try. I have not been here." Just knocks on it. It barely makes a noise.
Travis: Sounds like bubbles popping.
Matt: It's like the knuckle against the stonework; it's making this dull, awful sound. Nothing.
Travis: Should I knock? Do you want me to knock, or do you just want me to knock?
Sam: Knock.
Taliesin: Knock.
Marisha: Knock.
Travis: Which one was that, I don't know. (laughter)
Sam: The big one.
Travis: Okay. Can I lean back and slug the door using siege?
Matt: Yes, you can. Go ahead and roll an attack. No weapon bonus though, just your strength.
Travis: Yeah, so that's a 15.
Matt: Okay. So that's your strength bonus and your proficiency modifier?
Travis: Not my proficiency modifier.
Matt: So that would be 20. You reach back (heavy impact) and you watch as his hand hits the section where the engraved metal door is, dents inward, and leaves this big heavy dent in the front and the impact is like a dull thunderous clap of lightning. You hear it echo on the inside.
Ashley: It's engraved with something?
Matt: There was some very faint texture or pattern to it. Yeah, a design that was built into it.
Travis: Knuckles. By the way, can I see that manhole cover you guys have been carrying around this whole time?
Marisha: Yeah, sure.
Travis: It's got Giant runes on it. Runes of Giant.
Marisha: Help me. Hey, Pike, can you help prop it up on that side?
Travis: Do I recognize any of these runes?
Matt: You recognize it's Giant. You cannot read.
Travis: Yep. This is very important script. It says that you must carry this at all times, and if you let it go prematurely you will die.
Marisha: What?
Ashley: I don't think he's telling the truth.
Taliesin: Better safe than sorry, though.
Matt: Grog, make a deception check.
Ashley: We'll hold it.
Travis: Natural 20!
Marisha: What! Bullshit! Goddamn it.
Matt: Which is a grand total of?
Travis: It's a grand total of 21.
Matt: Keyleth, Pike, I need you guys to both roll insight checks.
Taliesin: This is the first time that actual Travis has really leaked into Grog.
Laura: Yeah, no shit.
Marisha: Natural one!
Taliesin: Wow.
Travis: The stars are aligning.
Ashley: That's a 14.
Matt: Okay. Suddenly, as Grog says this, you realize, him being of giant kin and the seriousness in his eyes, and the stark intensity in the way he describes this: If you drop this, something terrible is going to happen!
Marisha: Pike, I need to readjust my grip! Here, I want to put it on my back.
Ashley: Grog, maybe you should hold it then because we're not as strong as you.
Marisha: Yeah, I don't want to drop it. Will it kill all of us? Is it a blast radius thing?
Travis: The fable goes on to say that if you hand it to one of your friends, you will shit everywhere. Immediate bowel loss. Green apple splatters all over your feet, just awful.
Ashley: That doesn't sound true.
Travis: The giant tales are to be respected.
Matt: You probably don't believe the second half, but you do believe the first half.
Travis: It is a fable.
Sam: So it could be metaphor.
Ashley: Safe than sorry, we'll just hold it.
Matt: It's at this point you hear this (thunk) and you hear this heavy, low (clicking) as the sound of chains being tightened and winding forward are followed by the large doorway rising up.
Laura: Oh, it lifts!
Liam: Does it get stuck with the dent?
Matt: You watch as it rises, and there is a small carved slit where the knob itself rises up and fits as the door entirely lifts into the structure leaving the front walkway open and there standing, you see with arms off to the side apparently finishing the rotation of this chain--
Sam: A wench.
Matt: No, you see two male fire giants, fully armored with large blocky black metal swords staring down at you from each side.
Marisha: What are they wearing?
Matt: They are both wearing dark plated scale mail, and both of them have these black bands of metal across their neck that have a small, pulsing red gem in the center.
Sam: But Matthew, are they fuckable, though? Those guards? Would you do them?
Matt: Scanlan, that's up to you, man. You've done some freaky shit in your time. Although in this circumstance you'd be the gerbil.
Sam: I'm the gerbil.
Marisha: Lemmiwinks!
Matt: You are Lemmiwinks in this. If you want to gain some experience, that's up to you.
Taliesin: And really interesting fanart.
Matt: Anyway. They both stand there expectantly, saying nothing.
Travis: Is this where we let the master do the talking?
Marisha: We're here to speak with Juuraiel.
Matt: There's a small pause. You hear a voice echo from further back in the room, though you see no source for it, "What is your business with this Juuraiel?"
Marisha: We have a deal we'd like to make. We have a token of our-- We want to play cards?
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Marisha: Oh Jesus.
Travis: Why are you talking? Persuasion check?
Marisha: I'm the only one not in chains! I'm the only one who can! It's bullshit!
Laura: You could have made any of us look like not--
Marisha: No, I can't. It's only a self spell or else I would've. Oh, that's not too bad. Persuasion? 18.
Matt: There's a pause and you hear a few heavy footfalls, getting louder as they go. Emerging from around the side, you see now a tall, broad-shouldered, female fire giant with a very strong square jaw. Her hair is pulled into this long red braid that dangles past her lower back and you can see it drifting behind her with this large metal ring that it's braided into at the bottom. She's not wearing any armor at the moment, just wearing casual clothes, and these clothes are lined with gold and platinum. This is a very expensive ware that she has on, as well as rings that encrust both of her hands. As she steps forward and looks out towards you. "So you want to play cards and make a deal you say?"
Marisha: I lift with Pike the big manhole cover.
Matt: She reaches over and grabs it, from both of you.
Travis: The fables were a lie!
Ashley: We're safe.
Matt: She glances over it, and puts it over in her hands. "So, you have spoken with Whaska?"
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: "Okay, I will hear what you have to say. Let's hear your deal. Let them in!" She turns around and walks across to the end of the room, as the two giants step to the side, removing their crossed swords from the entryway that scrape across the stone. And you may enter the premises.
Laura: I want to look around immediately, all the walls.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: 25.
Laura: 29.
Matt: As you guys walk in this central chamber, the foyer, if you will, it's beautiful. The use of autumn colors mixed with various golds and metallics to create this archway that is a band of brass, a band of gold, a band of platinum, a band of brass, and repeats itself onward. It has this tunnel-like feel, and within each of these walls, there are a number of weapons. Large, giant-sized weapons that are bolted into the wall and have beautiful runes inscribed within, and wooden plaques on the bottom that contain language that only you recognize, but can't read. There are shelves that contain large books that are locked up behind glass and chains roped across it. This is a collection. This is like a small personal museum. To your size, it is huge. To Juuraiel's size, it's like a nice den.
Liam: Are there any pieces of armor with a sun on it?
Matt: As you guys continue inward, there is a large desk on the opposite side, as well as a few comfortable chairs off to the sides and a staircase that spirals upward to a second floor. There are very bright red burning torches that the flame itself would be a heavy bonfire by comparison to any of you. It burns and licks the edge of the interior without any damage done to the beautiful construct of the foyer. This desk at the end, which she has now walked around and sat on the opposite side, is made up of beautiful dark green wood and has gold leaf designs all throughout the legs. Everything here speaks of projected affluence. Juuraiel, this fire giant you have come across, makes a statement with her wealth, with everything she presents. The other two giants that you saw at the entryway, who had the binding on their necks, close the door behind them, place their weapons up leaning against the wall, and both lumber behind you as you walk in, slowly keeping watch as you progress inward. Juuraiel raises her finger and says, "Could you please bring a means of my guests to speak eye to eye?" And the two giants diverge slightly, both grab two of the chairs and scoot them in, up to the edge of the desk. These chairs are about head height to both of you at the resting point, so you'll have to climb up into them, and then probably get to be up at the desk level.
Liam: The cards are going to be like giant novelty cards.
Travis: Can I ask a question? In my bag, I have two vials of fox's cunning. Is that a potion?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Can I drink one?
Matt: If you'd like to.
Travis: It's so hot outside! I'm so thirsty! I would like just a sip. I had it made because I'm an idiot. Just in case the sewer plate says "eat these and enjoy" or something.
Laura: Yeah. She already took it, though. I'm looking at the walls at around 20 to 25 feet. Do I see it, up high on the ceiling? Because I've been looking.
Matt: As you guys get to the desk itself, on the back wall behind the desk, above her shoulder, you see a beautiful ruby shield that refracts the light in the room. It's roughly, from head to toe, Grog's size. It's pointed at the bottom and rises up almost like it's designed to look like a flame. It has this uneven, flickering, frozen in time of the construct of the top of the shield. On the other side of her other shoulder, you see, much smaller in size, but a beautiful set of-- make sure I get the description right on this-- beautiful brass armor with priceless cut rubies all across the rest of the silver inlay of the armor itself.
Laura: You're going to be blinging out; we got to get it!
Liam: How many feet up the wall?
Matt: It is about 25 to 30 feet up the wall. It's up where it's resting about the top height of the shield, so there's an even point and it's about five feet down from the ceiling.
Laura: Should we let just Keyleth and Senokir up on the chairs?
Sam: I would like a seat at the table, if that's all right?
Marisha: Let me get us out of this. Juuraiel? Do you mind if we speak candidly and dispose of our guises that led us here?
Matt: "But of course. You've already presented trust from one of my allies. You are safe within here."
Laura: Can I roll an insight check on the whole allies thing?
Matt: You may.
Laura: I was having difficulty choosing. 19?
Travis: I told you the fables were true!
Sam: Oh yeah, you know, like Loot Crate and stuff.
Taliesin: Loot Crate. Magical Loot Crate.
Sam: Doctor Strange. Use 'criticalrole' for 10% off your Loot Crate guys, code 'criticalrole'!
Matt: You drank the potion, Grog?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: So you have advantage on intelligence checks.
Travis: Nice. Do I gain any temporary intelligence?
Matt: There's a clarity in your mind that hasn't been there in a while, not since being an eagle.
Travis: Do I look over at the symbols and do they all of a sudden start to mean something?
Matt: No?
Laura: Oh no, you can't read still.
Matt: You need to learn to read still.
Taliesin: You have a deeper understanding of the tragedy of that.
Travis: I got to A, B, C. We'll work on it.
Liam: While you don't recognize them as letters, they're like little characters that you're familiar with: the burly guy, and then the cross guy, he's holding swords.
Travis: Yeah, that's the tree. Yep, that one's the wiener.
Sam: Keyleth, may I speak?
Marisha: I said we'd dropped our guises so yes, everyone, you can take your slave robes off now.
Sam: We're all chained.
Travis: Not wearing robes.
Matt: You see Senokir looks over at Uten.
Marisha: Senokir, can we--?
Matt: "Not to worry. Uten, if you don't mind." Uten pulls out the ring of keys that he has and goes through and begins undoing your guys' shackles. This will take a little while.
Travis: Did the door to the room close?
Matt: It's closed. The two servant giants closed it. Juuraiel leans forward with a grin, "So, please. What do you come here requesting?"
Sam: Hello. Hi, there. Hi.
Matt: "Even smaller!" And now leans in real close to the edge of the desk. The massive size of her face and the breath; it's delightful. It's a combination of rotting vegetation and very dry earth. But her teeth are gleaming. The smile is interested in whatever you're about to say.
Sam: Hi there. I'm a bit of a gambler. I'm known around the worlds as being one of the luckiest men with a deck of cards you've ever met. I've won games in many of the different planes. I see that you collect many treasures that you've won in matches as well. Is that true?
Matt: Eyes shift back and forth over the rest of you here, "I have an interest in games of chance on occasion, yes. So, you come all this way to play games?"
Sam: Yes, I have. I spend my life just playing games. It's my livelihood. I've won many things over the years. In fact, all of these great people, large and small next to me, I won in various card games around the planes. That one over there, the big one, I won him in a game of Gin Rummy in the Feywild. This guy I picked up in a game of Fish. I'm here to collect, possibly, one of your items, if that's all right with you?
Matt: Make a deception check.
Sam: 32. (laughter)
Matt: Leans even farther forward, to where it's about two feet between you and her large eyes that have come in, and her chin is scraping against the wood to get a really good look at you. She looks over, her red pupils slowly inspecting you. The grin grows even wider as she leans back, "Well, you intrigue me, small one. If your luck has been so great as to collect these fine specimens of strangers and you bring them all with you to such a place. Where do you hail from, if I might ask?"
Sam: Places. That information is not relevant right now.
Matt: "Fair enough. So! You come to play me for what?"
Sam: Maybe I'll decide after our match.
Matt: "Well, I need to know what the ante is, so I can ask for a suitable request for my side."
Sam: Certainly.
Taliesin: I'm going to lean in and-- (no vocals)
Sam: There's a large ruby shield back there, is that true?
Matt: "Ah, yes."
Sam: He wants that, but I think his taste sucks. So I'm going to go for that brass piece of armor back there.
Matt: "Ah, interesting. So you wish to play for the armor?"
Sam: Sure, I'm a little man, and it might help me in a fight someday if I ever lose.
Matt: "Fair enough. So." She leans behind and pulls out a wooden box from a small cubby. And you now look behind the desk and there are a series of cubbies that are embedded in the wall. And there are different things that she's thrown in there. She pulls out this wooden box, unlocks it with her heavy fingers, and opens it. She pulls out a deck of cards that is larger than what you're used to playing with, but small enough that you could functionally hold a hand. Small from her perspective. Kind of. (laughter)
Sam: Let me cut the cards.
Travis: And you die.
Matt: She takes it and closes the box. Begins to shuffle them, without even looking away from you. As she looks at you, she cocks a bit of a half-smile to one side and says, "So for that, do you know the history of this? For you to come so far to play a game, there may be a reason you come. And the thing you select for the game we play has much value to you."
Sam: Honestly, the game itself is what's of value to me. I am just happy to win and keep my winning streak alive. What I get out of it is meaningless.
Matt: "Okay."
Sam: But if you'd like to enlighten me on that object--
Matt: "We will play three hands. The winner of two takes the pot."
Laura: (dry heaves)
Matt: "Request the armor. Me, I request your friends."
Laura: I knew that's where she was going to go with this.
Sam: Well, I was going to offer one of your choosing. But you've only offered me one of your items.
Matt: "Take it or leave it. If you truly have no idea what this armor is worth, perhaps you wish to choose another thing to ante."
Sam: You seem attached to it. I want it. I'll have it.
Matt: "How badly do you want it?"
Sam: Certainly badly enough to risk these scoundrels.
Matt: "Then we have an accord."
Sam: We do.
Marisha: Hell yeah! Let's do this!
Travis: I've never been an ante before.
Liam: Stone-cold gnome.
Taliesin: So many bad ideas start with--
Laura: Do we need to all sit on the table, then?
Marisha: Does it work like Vegas? Are all the odds on the house?
Travis: Is it wizard's chess?
Sam: May I ask what game we're playing? Blackjack? Are we playing--
Travis: Strip poker!
Sam: Strip poker? Five-card stud? (laughter)
Matt: "We refer to it as the Tinder Start. But you probably know of it as the Gambit of Ord."
Sam: We've played this before?
Marisha: Wait, did we end up playing it?
Matt: This is the thing you didn't end up playing.
Marisha: Fucking fuck! We didn't end up playing this. But wait, we remember the rules?
Matt: You didn't play it. You, make an intelligence check. Being a bard that you are. And add a +2 to it.
Travis: Get the Hand Cone out!
Sam: 21.
Matt: You have played this game.
Laura: Thank god! Do you suck at it?
Sam: I suck at everything.
Matt: The hand is represented. Each of you roll a d8, but you keep the die hidden. Then you both roll a d6, and then keep it secret. Then you both roll a d4, and then reveal them all together. But you can raise it as you wish.
Travis: You raise after each roll?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: What's the goal? What are you trying to get to?
Matt: The highest number between the three rolls. But you can fold if you want to. This usually is done in a betting type circumstance, so we'll see how things go from here. Anyway, finishes shuffling. Tosses you a series of cards. Takes a couple cards for herself. Sets the deck aside, right in front of her. The two guards in the back, by the way, we hear them stepping away and retrieve their weapons, and head back behind you guys. Just keeping them at their sides.
Liam: So in this room, let's say you're her, and we're all where we are, and the giants are behind the group, is that about right?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: And how much room is there behind her and the wall?
Matt: Maybe 15 feet, 20 feet.
Liam: I'm going to slowly tippie-toe around the side of the wall, carefully avoiding giants. I want to stand not directly behind her, but off at an angle.
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Liam: 30.
Matt: Okay. You both take a look at your hands. Go ahead and roll a d8. Okay.
Sam: And now?
Matt: So, for this circumstance, we'll go ahead and take a d6. Roll it and put it next to the die. All right. And now take a d4.
Sam: And if we fold, do we start over?
Matt: If you fold, you lose the round.
Sam: Oh, well then it's just a number.
Laura: So it's just numbers, at this point?
Matt: At this point, yeah. You walked into a game of her choice.
Laura: There's no way to cheat.
Liam: So there's three rolls in a row, and she's done two. Can we see them from where I am?
Matt: You currently went around the table?
Liam: Yeah, I'm at an angle, but I'm a lot lower than she is.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: Luck. That's fine. 22.
Matt: You get a good glance at the first two cards, yes.
Liam: Can I (mutters inaudibly) in the earring, as quiet as a mouse? Can I just breathe it?
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Liam: With advantage?
Matt: Not with advantage because it's an audio thing.
Liam: Is it three rolls? I don't understand the game.
Laura: There's no way we can cheat! Because the ante's already on the table!
Liam: Yeah, I'm going to wait.
Laura: Right, there's no way to cheat?
Matt: That you can think of.
Laura: Unless you can fudge the dice!
Marisha: But that's risky.
Laura: It's technically cards.
Matt: It's cards. The dice is just the mechanic for it. Take a look at your hand.
Sam: I know my hand. Wait, am I rolling the d4 or no?
Matt: We rolled the d8 and the d6. She looks down and goes, "All right. So, to make this even more interesting. I'll wait. Let us see how the first hand goes, shall we?" And she puts her third card in front of her, face down. Roll now.
Sam: (quietly) Not good, you guys.
Matt: "And call." And she turns the cards over. "Four, six, one." A total of 11.
Sam: One, five, two. Total of eight.
Matt: "That is an unfortunate way to open it, my small friend. But you seem keen on winning, and I respect that." She takes the cards, places them to the side. Deals out a new hand, brings it back to her. "Shall we begin?" Go ahead and roll your d8.
Sam: Oh, man, this is just straight rolls.
Travis: We're going to kill everybody in this motherfucking house!
Laura: There's no way to fucking sleight of hand this shit, is there?
Marisha: Can he add his Bardic Inspiration?
Matt: No, this isn't an ability check.
Ashley: If I cast Enhance Ability on him?
Laura: Maybe, can you pray for Sarenrae?
Matt: This is quite literally a game of chance. If you wanted to try and fuck around with a creative way to cheat, you're welcome to try. That could also go very poorly, depending on how it goes. Before you do the next one, she stops and goes, "So, as I was going to say before. How about, as your friends are the ante on the table, throw yourself in as well?"
Sam: And what will you give me if I win?
Matt: "Perhaps the ruby shield?"
Sam: I love myself a lot. A lot more than a bunch of rubies and a handle, I'll tell you that much. If I'm giving myself to slavery forever, I want something a hell of a lot better than that. I'm a man who's won 500 straight card games in a row. You think these slaves are something? You should see what I have at home.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Sam: 32.
Travis: Uh-oh.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: She nods.
Sam: I'll give you myself as a slave if you do not draw your next card and skip straight to the third, and that's your number. I get all three.
Matt: "Very well."
Travis: Oh, nice, dude!
Laura: Oh, hopefully she didn't roll an eight on that first one.
Matt: She rolled, the first die is placed there.
Laura: She rolled an eight?!?
Travis: She rolled an eight?!?
Sam: Oh, fucking balls. Fuck balls. (laughter)
Laura: We have to be ready to fight. Grab it and then Jenga out.
Matt: She rolled her last card but is not showing.
Ashley: But take the shield, too, though. Take the shield!
Sam: (whispers) Pretty bad.
Taliesin: No, we're good. Tell her to show her last card.
Laura: Maybe it's a one.
Matt: It's a two. "A ten. What did you roll?"
Taliesin: I cast Minor Illusion on the first card, to turn the three into an eight.
Matt: As you begin to mutter the incantation under your breath, she says, "I would not recommend bringing incantations into our game of chance."
Sam: Before I reveal my cards, I have one more proposal.
Matt: "Yes?"
Sam: (whispers) I don't know what it is. (laughter)
Laura: Maybe we can perform for her?
Sam: I'll come clean with you. We know exactly what that fucking piece of armor is.
Matt: "I had a feeling." (laughter)
Sam: We want it. We're not leaving here without it. I'm sorry, I'm not going to show you my cards. Because before I do, you'll be dead. Sorry, guys.
Matt: She turns her head to the side, "You do not want to walk this path, do you? Because if you truly cherish the lives that you and your friends here have, based on your current change in tone, this tells me that they now belong to me. Perhaps you would wish to continue to make this agreement you came to make. Show me your card."
Sam: I drew a three, and a three, and a three.
Travis: Oh, that sucks!
Matt: "By one each time. Perhaps it was time for you to lose cards after all. Based on our agreement, you and your friends are now property of Juuraiel. However, I see that you are traveled. You seem capable. You are bold. You walk in here after acquiring the will of Whaska. So, you want freedom, yes?"
Sam: Yes?
Matt: "Then perhaps there is a favor you can do for me. In exchange for this favor, I will nullify our contract, and you will be free to go. Does this sound viable?"
Sam: Possibly. Is it a card game?
Matt: "The other choice is you are now mine. Or, as you threatened boldly before, that I was to die. But I can say, given the current place that you reside, the enchantments I have on this room, the friends of mine that I have at your back, you will not have the outcome you wish."
Sam: What is your offer?
Matt: "Do you agree?"
Laura: Did you ever meet a dragon named Thordak?
Matt: "No."
Laura: Fuck. Big red guy? Took a lot of fire giants with him?
Matt: "There are a number of red dragons that walk."
Laura: This one was special. He had an enormous jewel in his chest.
Matt: "Sounds worthwhile. But do you agree to our arrangement?"
Sam: Just curious, can we draw the third hand? I just want to feel what it feels like to win once.
Ashley: What about best out of five? You're probably so bored with life; why not?
Sam: My slave speaks the truth.
Matt: "You are full of spunk and life. And you are foolish. Do you agree to our accord?"
Sam: I'm really curious about this last hand. If you beat me in this last hand, I agree.
Matt: "If I beat you in this hand, you agree. Otherwise, what? I still own you?"
Sam: Yes. Well, that's the deal.
Travis: Yeah, I like that. Maybe you'll win one.
Ashley: One more hand?
Matt: "We will see who wins this hand for your own sake."
Sam: Thank you. That would make me feel so much better about myself.
Matt: "It does not change our deal." First die. Second. And third. She reveals four, four, four. Literally rolled all fours.
Travis: God! Matt! You!
Taliesin: Wow.
Marisha: Wow.
Sam: I'm really just bad at everything.
Travis: Did you roll an 11?
Sam: I rolled an 11.
Matt: Oh my God!
Travis: You are a deity.
Matt: I wish I had this luck in Vegas! Like, literal gambling.
Travis: It's just four hours.
Sam: Best seven out of 13! (laughter)
Matt: "You have agreed to our accord as per the agreement."
Sam: I have agreed. I'm already your slave, so I couldn't really say no. So yes, I agree to our accord. What favor can I grant you?
Matt: "You will have your freedom and the armor you seek. My lover does not live because of an altercation with one who frequents the city. My partner, Drogat, died needlessly in the streets of an innocent altercation with Ghurrix, a pit fiend that lives at the embassy."
Laura: (groaning) Ah jeez.
Sam: Sorry, we're not supposed to go to the embassy. We were told so by our tour guide.
Matt: "Oh, you should never go to the embassy. But this Ghurrix is tied up with a lot of politics in this city. As much as I would love to squeeze what infernal life he has, I fear it would cause the execution of me and mine. So, I sit and fester with the need of vengeance. I need you, if you're as capable as you promise, to go and find Ghurrix, in whatever way you see fit, and carve the life from his body. Now, Ghurrix frequents the Arches, which is the slave market of the city, where he finds rare and unique servants for the Nine Hells and his masters there. Goes about once a week and is probably due there in a day or two. Go, slay Ghurrix, and return to me with no mention and no trace that can be brought back to my home. Then the armor is yours, as is your freedom. There is no agreement. You've already agreed. So go."
Sam: Yes, we accept. Thank you, my master, we will go do so right away. Two days, you say?
Matt: "Two days, yes."
Laura: Does that mean we don't have to answer to you anymore? You're equal to us?
Sam: Yes.
Marisha: High five, yeah!
Sam: I release you from your slavery.
Marisha: And into another one.
Sam: What does he look like?
Matt: She reaches down to the side of the desk, and pulls out a very small book, relative size, and flips through, and opens a page to turn towards you. "This is what I seek to see destroyed. You can tell, Ghurrix wears a symbol of his station. It is a thick, black chain. And at the bottom, it has the symbol of two manacles intertwined within a red symbol that pulses with anger. That is your mark."
Sam: Are you sure you don't want just a game of Pinochle instead?
Matt: "You try my patience, small one."
Sam: Please, call me Kenny Rogers.
Matt: "Two days. Go!"
Sam: Let's go, slaves! I'm sorry, equals, peers, let's go!
Matt: As you guys step down, the two giant guards step back and begin to walk towards the door to let you out.
Laura: Actually, madam, master. Do you have any symbols that you can give us, like something we could show people so they don't try to claim us for themselves? Because we're a lot smaller than everyone else here. Something that shows that we're your slaves?
Matt: "Hmm." She gets up from behind the desk, and walks up the stairs for a moment.
Laura: Is she out of the room?
Matt: She's out of the room, currently.
Laura: And two other giants are behind us?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: What are they doing?
Matt: They're standing watching all of you.
Laura: All of us except for--
Liam: I'm standing there, but I'm not--
Laura: Jump up and fucking see how it's attached to the wall!
Travis: How big is the suit of armor, the Dawnmartyr?
Matt: It would fit a human. A minute passes. You hear the footfalls return. As she comes down the stairs, with her hand in a fist, she throws her hand open. Hitting the ground, and scattering across the stonework, some of them stopping at your feet or beyond, a series of black, metal rings that match the ones that the two giants wear around their neck.
Travis: But smaller.
Matt: But smaller. Various sizes. There's probably like a dozen or so you can pick from. Some will fit better than others. "These I had made, but I had no need for servants of your size until today. So, go. These should be enough."
Laura: Thank you. They're lovely.
Travis: Yeah, I put mine on. I like it a lot.
Sam: Have a lovely afternoon.
Matt: "You as well. Good luck. Please, kill it. Return."
Travis: Do we want to stay the night here?
Marisha: Yeah, I was going to ask that.
Sam: Gross, but okay, go ahead.
Travis: A quick query. We're, like, visitors. We don't really have a place to stay. Now that we're yours, do you have like a broom cupboard?
Matt: Senokir pipes up and goes, "Actually, you're welcome to stay at our place. We have facilities that could function. Besides, it's a lot of chain we have to carry back now."
Taliesin: It's true.
Laura: We'll do you the favor, Senokir, of carrying this chain back to your place.
Matt: "That's wonderful, thank you."
Laura: A favor for a favor. (giggles)
Matt: "Indeed. We'll talk soon about mine."
Travis: He's going to wear us like winter coats. Going to make a suit out of our skin.
Marisha: Nice lampshade.
Laura: Ooh, his eyebrows literally going up when you said that. I think he wants to do it.
Matt: So, the door is lifted. You guys are led back out onto the street. Closes behind you. The time that has passed now, I need everyone once again to roll another constitution saving throw.
Travis: But I drank that Fox's Cunning.
Marisha: Am I okay?
Taliesin: We're going to be fine, anyway. We have the mansion.
Travis: 24.
Taliesin: 11.
Sam: 20.
Marisha: Do I still have fire resist?
Matt: Your fire resist would have gone away. You could cast it again.
Marisha: I'll just roll this time. It's just straight constitution?
Laura: Saving throw.
Ashley: With a saving throw?
Matt: Yeah.
Ashley: So roll another.
Matt: Well, no. You roll and then you add your saving throw bonus.
Marisha: Seven.
Matt: Vex?
Laura: Four.
Ashley: Three!
Matt: All right. Pike, Vex, Keyleth, and Percy all suffer a point of exhaustion. Pike, your speed is halved right now.
Laura: Oh no, Pike, but you're already so little!
Ashley: My what's halved?
Matt: Your speed is halved, so you are trailing behind everybody.
Laura: Grog, pick her up, she looks like she needs some water.
Ashley: Grog, I'm just so tired.
Travis: You look so mopey.
Ashley: I feel very mopey.
Travis: Did you want a piggyback ride?
Ashley: Yeah.
Travis: All right, I pick her up and I put her on my shoulder.
Matt: You guys eventually make your way back, being led by Senokir back to his establishment. Let's go ahead and take a little break for now. Go ahead and use the restroom--
Travis: You looked like the creepy guy was saying we should take a break for just a second.
Matt: "That would be frightening, wouldn't it?" All right, guys, we'll be back in just a few minutes, we'll see you in a second. [break]
Matt: Welcome back everyone to Critical Role. That was terrible.
Travis: The timing. Well, she's been gone.
Matt: She's been gone a while. It's okay, welcome back.
Ashley: I'm sorry.
Matt: Ashley, you're amazing.
Ashley: I'm just not working right now.
Matt: That's okay. So. You guys have returned to Senokir and Uten's establishment to rest until you feel is necessary to undertake this endeavor. But it is your guys' prerogative as to if you want to wait over the next day, day and a half to jump to it or is there anything you want to do to prepare for this circumstance? What do you want to do?
Taliesin: Let's sleep in the mansion so we can gain some of our--
Laura: Yeah let's sleep in the mansion till we can at least get rid of this heat.
Sam: If it's a day or two, we could go back to Daxio and check and come back. But then we'd have to get back into the city. That's probably a terrible idea.
Marisha: Can I bamf right here? What's your name? What is Simma sina--
Travis: Sequin.
Marisha: Senokir. Took a ten-minute break and that's it. Senokir, is there a way we could-- If I wanted to Plane Shift home, is there a way that I could Plane Shift right back here and not get, you know, our heads chopped off for it?
Matt: "I don't know. Is there?"
Marisha: Let me check, guys. You know, let me check the druidic texts and see what they say.
Matt: Specifically, you can choose a target in general terms. It'll probably bring you right back to where you arrived here. So you'd be back to the outside of the city.
Liam: At the respawn point.
Marisha: Well, I can't say Senokir's jewelry shop in the City of Brass?
Matt: You can specify a target or destination in general terms. So the City of Brass or Dispater on the second level of the Nine Hells. You appear in or near that destination.
Sam: No guarantee that we'd be back in. So we should stay.
Matt: Up to you. Crapshoot, it's possible.
Laura: As long as we know that Allura will send us a message if something goes wrong.
Liam: Did it get dark out at all? Or no?
Matt: Actually, by this time, as you guys have gotten back and ended this rest you guys have really come to get really thirsty, and as the exhaustion hits in, you all continue to reach for your waterskins and they're dried up.
Taliesin: We should go back into the mansion.
Sam: I agree.
Matt: The sun, however, has gone to a darker red color, like a soft eclipse almost. And as it does, the heat remains but the light gets dimmer and dimmer into a red twilight. And as it does, the city shuts down. Everybody goes home, locks up, and nothing but the efreet that you saw wandering the streets earlier with the little flaming brooches or amulets in the uniform outfit wander the streets.
Laura: Why doesn't anyone go outside at night?
Matt: Pardon me. (sneezes)
Marisha: Bless you.
Laura: Bless you, Senokir.
Matt: (sneezes)
Travis: Give me a third one.
Marisha: Bless you again.
Matt: Fuck you. Hate you so much. Live gaming. You ask this to Senokir?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: "That's largely because the Illuminated maintain a curfew. And if you don't follow the curfew, you'll wind up in chains."
Laura: Okay. Different chains than regular chains?
Matt: "At first, yes."
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Waterskins from our servants--
Liam: Who's that guy? What is that guy?
Offscreen: Thanks, Gov'ner.
Laura: What are we at?
Matt: "Kill him." (laughter)
Matt: "If you require water I can procure that for you, if you like."
Laura: Hmm?
Matt: "If you want water I can procure that for you."
Taliesin: Can we get water from the--
Sam: Well, we have water in his fucking jug.
Laura: Yeah. We've got so much water.
Marisha: I can also create water.
Laura: Yeah, but he's got a jug full of it.
Marisha: Pike and I can create water. Me and Pike both can.
Travis: I can create water. Don't say it like it's cool.
Taliesin: They're not speaking in metaphor. We know you can create water.
Matt: All right, so, what do you guys wish to do?
Liam: I mean, are we in a hurry, do we want to try to make this happen tonight?
Taliesin: Let's mansion for the night and then I think in the morning. We can't find him tonight. Can we?
Liam: I'm not talking about him, I'm talking about doubling back to the house and trying to get through the servants' window.
Sam: You really want to try to break into this fire giant's house?
Liam: If we're in a hurry, I mean we've killed some pretty gnarly things, I know they're big. So are we.
Laura: She could be gnarlier than the giants that we've fought.
Travis: And there might be an unbelievable amount of fire giants in that building.
Sam: Or traps.
Marisha: Or allies nearby. It's in the middle of a city.
Liam: Yeah. And I'm sure the other thing will be super easy.
Laura: The pit fiend?
Liam: It's on the table. I mean, whatever, you know. I'm going to follow your lead.
Sam: You want to do a smash and grab?
Laura: Run in, grab the armor, Plane Shift out. Can they chase us down if we do that?
Marisha: Classic B&E? Plane Shift takes a minute--
Laura: No, it's instant. Remember, we checked it.
Matt: It's an action.
Marisha: It takes an action. As long as we're all in a circle holding hands.
Travis: Oh shit.
Taliesin: And what happens if you can't Plane Shift out of that house? We probably want to get out of the house and then Plane Shift.
Marisha: In case it's magically locked down?
Taliesin: In case it's magically locked down.
Laura: Yeah, that's pretty smart.
Taliesin: In which the phrase, "I have many enchantments upon my home," led me to believe there's probably--
Travis: I mean, I really don't see what the problem is, right? Hellfiend goes, "Oh, time to go shopping for slaves." He walks up to the Arches, we set a trap, Vax goes stabby-stab-stab, Percy goes (gunshot), Pike goes, (high-pitched) "Hi", and like, donesky!
Taliesin: You're writing the best children's book ever.
Laura: I mean, I'm down, I think that's a great plan, Grog.
Marisha: He also said that the pit fiend could be there in one to two days.
Laura: Yes.
Sam: Could be there tomorrow?
Marisha: Also, do we know how much time passes in the fire plane versus the real world?
Matt: You're not entirely certain, comparatively the time. You feel like you've been here for, I mean, a while. By the cycle of the sun-like light source in the sky here on the plane, it seems like you've been here for about a day.
Laura: Oh, shit.
Marisha: Do we remember any type of relative time jump when we were here last time in and out?
Matt: No, but you were only here for maybe a handful of hours last time you guys came here.
Travis: Were you worried about being away from Fort Daxio for too long?
Liam: Yeah, that's what I was suggesting.
Marisha: Yeah, I mean we could come back to Thordak just destroyed everything.
Travis: Can't we scry on the fort?
Marisha: I can't scry between dimensions.
Matt: It has to be on the same plane.
Laura: Can you scry on the pit fiend?
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: We know what it looks like.
Laura: And you know like a thing for him, right? We know his name.
Travis: Thank you, watering boy.
Marisha: Yes, I could.
Sam: Cabin boy, thank you.
Travis: That's what I meant! That's what I wanted to say!
Marisha: Yeah, can I use the scrying eye to try and scry on the pit fiend?
Matt: You certainly can. So you have secondhand knowledge of the pit fiend.
Marisha: And trying to imagine his emblem that she described with the two manacles and the black chain, because that was pretty cool.
Matt: So, focusing on the emblem that you were described, you close your eyes and concentrate, holding the orb of scrying within your grasp. Okay. What's your spell DC?
Marisha: 19.
Matt: What's the spell DC of the scrying orb?
Marisha: It doesn't say.
Matt: It would be 15. Unless you cast the spell, right?
Marisha: Yeah, I get to do it, so it should still be mine, right?
Matt: Usually it would be set for the item, but for the purposes of this it won't make a huge difference. What's your spell DC?
Marisha: 19.
Matt: 19, okay yeah, so it won't make a difference. You close your eyes and you see a brief fuzzy vision of the city from your perspective and then your vision jumps suddenly and comes to fire, then comes to black, then comes to a quick view of that weird citadel, carved out of black obsidian hands reaching over each other, the one that you saw earlier, the embassy. Then you feel a wall and you're thrust through a series of walls, not able to really take in any visuals, the process is so fast, wall after wall, then you come to a darkened room, a wide chamber that contains a long series of papers and scrolls that are laid out in a specific format. You can see, chained to the walls, individuals moaning and crying. And you see, sitting in this small circle in the center of the floor, a humanoid-- a humanoid in the sense that it has arms or legs-- but you see the pit fiend sitting there, almost meditating, eyes closed, large teeth, jagged and pointed, coming out of its large jaw, dark red horns that curve behind its head, these large wings that are folded around it from the back as it sits its knees out, crosslegged, its arms resting upon the edges, eyes closed. It appears to be sleeping. Or at least resting.
Marisha: Can I get a focus on what the slaves look like?
Matt: Unfortunately you can't, the target of your scry is about the most you can focus on; you can give a blurry atmosphere around them, you can barely pick up the aspect of their presence, but that's the most you can do with the scry spell.
Marisha: Okay. Well, he appears to be in his bedroom, definitely in the citadel. As she said.
Laura: Does he have any, like, cuts on him, anything that looks weak?
Marisha: He had big gnarly teeth and slaves.
Ashley: Did he look scary?
Marisha: He looked very unpleasant.
Travis: But it's just him, right? One dude?
Sam: We could take one dude!
Marisha: Well, he also had a bunch of people chained to the wall, and this was after my vision being slammed through several walls. It seemed to be very deep in the labyrinth that is the embassy, which seems like a labyrinth.
Laura: So we'll have to wait until he comes out.
Taliesin: Can we trick him into the mansion?
Sam: The mansion door, I think, is only ten feet tall.
Laura: How tall is he?
Sam: 20?
Matt: Best that you could tell, probably close to 15 feet.
Laura: He could duck in.
Marisha: He's a little taller than Grog.
Ashley: What kind of slaves did it look like he had? All types?
Marisha: I tried to look. I couldn't tell. Looked like a nice variety.
Laura: If we said, "Hey, I heard there's really good slaves up in this mansion--"
Sam: And then what do we do in the mansion?
Taliesin: We can quietly attack him from all sides. Have a fight that won't draw the attention of the guards.
Sam: Something tells me that people fight in this city a lot.
Laura: Yeah, but I don't think the slaves attack the owners very often.
Taliesin: There's nothing we could damage in there that would remain damaged.
Marisha: Unless we tried to use ourselves as slave bait again, put a few of us on the auction.
Liam: You seemed to be able to talk Yenk into doing whatever you wanted. Do you think you could do that with this guy?
Sam: I could certainly make an appearance of Yenk.
Liam: I meant convince him to come inside.
Sam: You mean Dominate him?
Laura: He could be much more intelligent than Yenk was, though.
Liam: Could be.
Sam: I can try.
Taliesin: He wears jewelry.
Marisha: He has a logo.
Travis: He meditates.
Laura: He meditates?
Travis: Yep.
Taliesin: Bikram yoga.
Laura: Is that the hot one?
Taliesin: That is the hot one.
Travis: Should we go recon on the auction as slave shopping or whatever it is?
Laura: In the morning. Not now.
Travis: Set up the door outside of the market or whatever.
Sam: So, he's going to the auction to slave shop?
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: Unique slaves. He likes unique slaves.
Sam: Seems crazy that a gigantic fucking pit boss, whatever he is, would be like, "Oh, sure, I'll step into this creepy door, weird stranger!"
Laura: The mansion door is rather creepy, isn't it?
Sam: Yeah, for sure! Everything about me is creepy, guys!
Travis: But it's unique, and what if inside the door we make it look even more unique?
Laura: Yeah, can't you make the mansion look like anything you want?
Matt: Within reason.
Travis: That's important to say.
Matt: There are limitations. It's still a mansion.
Laura: I mean, if it looks like a sexy den or something.
Travis: Yeah, and if he doesn't come in the door, then we kill him.
Sam: This seems like a plan C to me. Convincing a giant killing machine to step into a nice house seems like it's a desperate plan of people without anything at all.
Taliesin: He's not a giant killing machine, he's a businessman looking to purchase--
Travis: What, do we go and make a deal with the devil? (goofy chuckle)
Sam: The deal is we just attack him and kill him! What's the big deal? We were sent on a killing mission here.
Taliesin: Where are we going to kill him?
Sam: Wherever we see him! Let's talk to Sonny here, creepy Sonny.
Liam: What about this? This is a terrible idea. Could one of us goad him into following us out of his abode or some building, somewhere, and you plop the mansion door outside the actual door? So he goes to try to leave the tavern or whatever the fuck, he goes into our house?
Laura: Ultimately, if we can get him in a building and then back out of the building, great. But if we can get him in that building, why can't we get him in the fucking mansion?
Matt: As far as you understand, for a person to walk into the mansion, they have to know they're walking into the mansion.
Sam: So we can definitely entice them. You guys can pose as slaves and show him some amazing feats and say, "There's more where that came from, inside the mansion!" but if he says no, then what's our plan?
Matt: Senokir pipes up at this point. He's been listening in to this whole conversation off to the side. He goes, "If you are indeed going to fight a creature of this esteem, I will request to not be present. Thus, you will be masterless in this city. I don't know how to protect you the way you look."
Travis: Don't we have the neck rings, the collars, to mock that we're--
Matt: "Perhaps. That will be helpful. Just make sure you have a solid story, or another way of masking yourself. Otherwise--"
Sam: I can make us all look different. What would make us passable in the city?
Matt: "Well, dressed more like us, or the others who are free. It all depends on what you can look like."
Travis: Less appealing. Less different.
Matt: "Or, at least, amongst the elite of this city, where you won't be bothered."
Sam: I can make us all robes and stuff.
Ashley: Don't we want to look unique for him to want--
Laura: One of us.
Marisha: Seeming allows you to tailor us, right?
Sam: Sure, sure.
Matt: Actually, what does Seeming allow?
Sam: I can shrink or grow us by a foot, change our general appearance and clothing.
Marisha: How about we do a little bit of both? We can have a few of us, maybe two, as slaves, the rest as masters, walking around incognito. Once one of us gets sold off, we track him back so we're not fighting a member of the Embassy of the City of Brass in the middle of the market.
Laura: That would be bad.
Liam: I like the mansion idea. What if we pitched the mansion as a traveling magical boutique slave shop? Artisan slave shop? We lube this guy up in a loincloth and this guy after a hard day's tinkering, and we sell them! This guy can sell anything! This guy could sell a hunk of shit to the Emperor of Emon.
Marisha: These people have seen a lot of shit, not just one hunk of shit.
Laura: What if you and I dressed in exact, identical clothing, and then we're unique? We're, you know, twin slaves?
Taliesin: I was actually going to say quintuplets. We could all look the same.
Marisha: Is that a fantasy that people have?
Taliesin: It is now.
Liam: That's the plan!
Sam: I'm sorry, what's going on? We're all looking like you?
Liam: We're septuplets! Sextuplets! And you're the salesman.
Sam: I'm selling a group of identical sextuplet slaves and the advantage is just that they look cool? "Check out my slaves; they all look alike!"
Travis: If you give us one order, we all understand the order!
Taliesin: Somehow, a stamp with an upside-down airplane is worth a fortune. This, obviously, is more rare.
Sam: I could make you all other ways unique.
Liam: I mean, we're fairly attractive! I feel like six of us would be worth the price of admission.
Laura: Although you can only grow us or shrink us by a foot, so this would be a really little--
Taliesin: We'll make her taller and you two shorter.
Marisha: Can I also throw out that maybe six might be pushing it a little? Maybe we should drop it down to, like, quadruplets?
Taliesin: No! Because six is what he's walking around with! He's got more back in his shop!
Liam: It's got the word "sex" right in it! Sextuplets! Sex sells! Sextuplets sell!
Travis: You can do it. Magic door, sextuplets.
Sam: I love this idea, don't get me wrong, but I feel like convincing him that you are able-bodied slaves with magical abilities might be even more of icing on the cake than, "Hey, they look alike!"
Travis: I like that! You vamp, baby, you do whatever. Do what you do. SAM; All right, and when it doesn't work, Sonny, can we fight him right there in the Arches? Will people be like, "What the fuck's going on? Arrest them all!"
Matt: "He is a known entity in this city. If you wish to fight him in the open, I would recommend having a way of perhaps having the Illuminated on your side."
Sam: That's the guards?
Matt: "That is the guard."
Liam: Artisanal half-elf slaves.
Laura: Wait. If we can convince them that he's broken a law of some sort--
Travis: Bribes.
Laura: Bribes.
Sam: We could also try to convince them that he's broken a law or done something horrible.
Laura: What's against the law here?
Matt: "Well, going against the sultan is the most grievous of things. He is a paranoid one."
Laura: He's the one in the big-- no.
Matt: "In the Charcoal Palace."
Sam: I could make the image of our mark standing out there in the middle of the Arches, cursing the sultan's name and pissing all over the place.
Travis: Right, but listen, I don't know if we have enough to bribe all the efreet. What if we went to the Charcoal Palace, spewed a tale, and said that this pit fiend is plotting to overthrow the Charcoal Palace and all we want is to remove the problem for him?
Matt: "I can really recommend you not go near that palace."
Laura: Yeah, let's not do that.
Travis: So, we do it.
Laura: No, let's not.
Matt: "They have wards to pierce through lies. You will find yourselves never heard from again, if you have falsehood in your midst."
Taliesin: Does the sultan mark his slaves?
Matt: "The sultan, I imagine, would, though I am not aware of it myself."
Taliesin: Does he have a seal?
Matt: "I believe so."
Taliesin: If we were to sell ourselves as slaves, we could be marked as the property of the sultan.
Sam: And then what?
Taliesin: And then we could claim that he was trying to steal property of the sultan.
Sam: Are we still sextuplets in this scenario?
Taliesin: You don't get to negotiate that aspect. Even if we're just sneaking back into the house and stealing the armor, we're doing it as identical sextuplets. There's no fighting that anymore.
Liam: One addendum. Our sizes don't change, right?
Sam: I can make you a foot taller or smaller.
Liam: We could be the Matryoshka nesting dolls. From biggest to smallest. That's unique!
Sam: That is unique.
Marisha: I feel like we're spending a lot of time on this, and maybe not enough time on our battle plan.
Liam: Oh, that would go to shit anyway.
Sam: Okay, so far, let's recap. Recap, vote, and move on.
Laura: Senokir, if you saw a bunch of people who looked the same, that went from small to big, wouldn't you want them as slaves?
Matt: "Depending."
Laura: They were totally hot, too.
Matt: "Probably."
Ashley: And also, if they had skills, each of them had a separate skill?
Matt: "Most likely. There are many unique slaves that pass through the Arches."
Laura: Oh, really? What's the most unique one you've ever seen?
Matt: "They've had a few celestials through before. Those generally fetch a pretty penny with the individuals you're speaking about. The winged ones, they apparently are very sought-after by the Nine Hells."
Laura: Wings! You have wings!
Marisha: Or we could Seeming wings?
Laura: Yeah, but they could probably see through that shit! His are real!
Liam: So far, only Cinnabons here has been able to see through my shit.
Laura: I feel like they'd be able to tell. But whatever.
Taliesin: If each of the sextuplets-- I'm never going to get tired of saying that-- were unique in their own way, and yours was that you had a trace of celestial which is why you have wings?
Travis: Do we still want to try and get him in the mansion?
Taliesin: Yes.
Sam: So wait, I'm going to recap these plans, here. Plan A, making us all sextuplets and trying to get him into the mansion.
Travis: Celestial sextuplets.
Sam: Plan B, we're all sextuplets--
Matt: Seeming does not add wings. It has the same arrangement of body parts. But if one of them has wings, you could change those wings into a different color.
Marisha: Can I use Alter Self, because Alter Self gives-- because I can give myself gills and stuff like that.
Sam: So, Plan A, again, sextuplets, slaves, mansion. Plan B, we're still sextuplets, but this time, we're somehow framing him for dishonoring the sultan and then attacking him in the middle of the square.
Taliesin: Which is why Plan A is much better.
Sam: Plan C, still sextuplets, that doesn't change, but now we're just ambushing him in the center of the Arches and we've paid off the guards to turn a blind eye.
Taliesin: We don't have enough money to pay off the guards.
Sam: We have tons of money!
Laura: We don't have that much money.
Sam: I mean, we could bribe them with six identical slaves. So what's it going to be? Plan A, the mansion that's certainly going to fail? Plan B, the framing job? Or Plan C, the bribery slash ambush?
Laura: Plan A, into plan B if it doesn't work!
Sam: All right, great!
Taliesin: Remember, we're just to show off. You've got more.
Sam: Of course I've got more.
Laura: What is the sultan's name?
Matt: "The sultan's name is the Grand Sultan of the Efreet, the Lord of Flame, the Potentate Incandescent, the Tempering and Eternal Flame of Truth, the Most Puissant of Hunters, Marshal of the Order of the Fiery Heart, the Smoldering Dictator, the Crimson Firebrand, Marrake al-Sidan al-Hariq ben Lazen."
Marisha: It's like when you start the little Halloween sing-y things.
Laura: I almost got it memorized though.
Travis: I thought Percy's was long, shit.
Taliesin: Mine's better.
Liam: Scan-Man, can you rearrange the inside of the mansion to look like whatever you want--
Sam: Yeah, what would it be? A slave auction house?
Liam: Could it be a theater for presentation, or a ring to show off amazing skills? Wings, arrows?
Sam: A circus side-show thing?
Taliesin: Somewhere between the Folies Bergere and Caligula's living room.
Sam: Caligula's living room, I can do.
Marisha: Maybe have a little side area with hookah and some nice dancers, you know? As he watches, to add to the atmosphere?
Sam: I mean, sure, I can do some of these things. Within reason. Right?
Matt: Maybe.
Sam: Once the mansion is built, does it stay built? It rebuilds every time?
Taliesin: I think it's like a Windows PC. You can change the desktop settings.
Marisha: What if the ladies went on a redecorating tear really fast?
Laura: They hung a bunch of fabric up and lit some candles?
Marisha: Dim the lights.
Matt: It's still a mansion. You have an indoor foyer. You can customize any other floor plan you like, and the decor of it, but it still looks like a mansion.
Laura: So we can put pieces of fabric up.
Ashley: Opium den style.
Liam: Can we build a stage out of chickens?
Taliesin: You could have little slave chickens.
Sam: I mean, that sounds so great. I'm on board. Let's try this stupid, crazy plan. So, we're going to go to the Arches tomorrow, disguised as the slaves of what's-her-butt?
Laura: Juuraiel?
Taliesin: You've already made a sale, and you have more back at the--
Sam: Sure. So, you're slaves, I'm a slave-master. What do I look like?
Laura: Whatever you want to look like.
Sam: No, I've got to look like a slave-master. Senny, what would I look like?
Matt: "I would recommend not being a pink-skinned gnome like yourself. Perhaps something that could live in this city."
Laura: Like maybe an imp!
Matt: "An imp would be interesting."
Sam: An imp with jewelry and such?
Matt: "However, an imp would not be solo and would probably still be behooven to the Nine Hells, and would work and be considered a subordinate to a pit fiend. I would not recommend an imp."
Sam: Give me a thing.
Laura: Something little.
Matt: "Perhaps an azer."
Laura: What is that?
Matt: "Well, as you would consider, close to them-- a dwarf. You may have seen a few." You've seen a couple of strange individuals throughout the city as you've walked by. They're dwarf-like, they're thick, they're muscular. They look like a dwarf, except for instead of hair and a beard, it's fire. A wreath of fire across dark grey, almost obsidian skin.
Taliesin: Baby Ghost Rider.
Laura: Awesome! Be one of those!
Matt: To give you a specific visual, to give you a feel for what I'm talking about here, when I say--
Taliesin: That's baby Ghost Rider!
Laura: That is awesome!
Sam: I'm in.
Liam: (high-pitched) Flames!
Liam: (high-pitched) Flames on the side of my face! Heaving, heaving breaths.
Taliesin: (high-pitched) Flames on the side of my face! Heaving, heaving breaths.
Matt: (high-pitched) Flames on the side of my face! Heaving, heaving breaths.
Sam: I'll make a mansion for the night. We'll all take a rest and then go tomorrow.
Matt: "I was going to make some beds. We have--"
Laura: Oh, that's so kind of you! But we have beds that are specific to us, and we--
Taliesin: Just the break from the heat is the only thing that would force us to deny your hospitality.
Matt: "Very well."
Taliesin: But we will keep the door to our rooms, of course, in your abode.
Matt: "Of course. We'll discuss soon our arrangement. Good night."
Taliesin: Why does he keep doing that?!
Ashley: Should one of us sleep in his house?
Laura: No, nobody should!
Taliesin: There's something wrong in it. There's something in the basement.
Travis: I have a quick request. Before I go to sleep, can I try and find Pike and see if she will teach me the alphabet, before my fox's cunning wears off?
Taliesin: That's the saddest thing I've ever heard.
Matt: You go and find Pike in her room. She comes to the door, already groggy, no pun intended. Sorry about that. You open your door and you see Grog standing there, looking a little sheepish.
Ashley: Grog, what's wrong?
Travis: Yeah, look, I had trouble sleeping, and I actually know Giant, but I can't read it. Do you think maybe, before this fancy smart-potion wears off, you could teach me some letters?
Ashley: Well, if we have a book or something, I could. A Beginning to Read Giant, is there anything like that where I could know what the letters are?
Travis: Well no, I don't see a lot of Giant, just even Common or--
Ashley: Just Common letters? Yes, I can show you the alphabet. I'll write it out. Okay? Do you know how to spell your name? Okay. It's very easy. You have four letters in your name, but there are two of the same letter. So you really only have three letters in your name.
Travis: How many-- I'm not so hot on the numbers, either.
Ashley: Okay, well, we won't talk about numbers. Okay, what's the first letter of the alphabet? This you know.
Travis: G.
Ashley: That's the first letter of your name.
Travis: Oh, it is!
Ashley: Yes, but that's not the first letter of the alphabet. You've said it before. Ah--
Travis: Ah-- I. Hey!
Ashley: Oh! It's the first letter, well, you wouldn't know that, because you don't know how to spell.
Travis: Fucking A, this is tough.
Ashley: Oh! You said it!
Travis: Fucking? A?
Ashley: A! A is the first letter of the alphabet.
Travis: A. Ay. A. A.
Ashley: And we can keep going-- (laughter)
Matt: Okay, for the purposes of the narrative, you spend the next few hours with Pike in your room, beginning to learn elements of the alphabet of Common. You go through enough of it where you pick up some of it and as the potion fades, so does the memory of the last three hours. (yelling)
Marisha: That's so mean!
Matt: This is Flowers for Grogernon. But it wouldn't have mattered because the Common alphabet and Giant runics are totally different things.
Travis: Yeah, totally. I just wanted to know something.
Ashley: Did I at least teach him how to spell his name?
Matt: Make an intelligence check, Grog.
Travis: Do I still-- no, it wore off, right? I don't have advantage.
Laura: You can do it, Grog! Roll a natural 20!
Matt: I'll say, as you feel the potion fading from you--
Travis: I burp, and I get a little bubble?
Matt: Sure. Go ahead and roll an intelligence check.
Travis: Oh, that's even worse. Aw, minus two, fuck! Twelve.
Matt: You get "Gr--" and that's where it ends.
Travis: My cursive is sweet. I'm so tired. You know, I've learned all of these but I'm really sleepy.
Ashley: We'll keep working on it.
Travis: I'm not sure we will. But yeah, keep working. Good night. Thank you, Pike.
Ashley: You sleep so well, okay?
Liam: Smash cut to a year later where he's going, "See. Kevdak. Run."
Ashley: No! That's so cute! Before I go to sleep, I am going to cast Lesser Restoration on myself, to maybe get rid of one point of exhaustion.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Out of curiosity, sleeping outside of the effects of the heat should make--
Matt: That'd the Greater Restoration, technically, to try and--
Liam: There's AC in here, isn't there?
Taliesin: There's AC.
Laura: In the mansion. Not in the studio. (laughter)
Matt: Greater Restoration reduces exhaustion. But you can do that as well.
Ashley: I'll cast Greater Restoration before bed.
Matt: Okay. So you reduce a level of exhaustion.
Taliesin: I am going to send a little time working on a couple things for the fort when we get back. Netting ammo for the trebuchet, just a sketch. To start to design a very simple bolo for the trebuchet.
Matt: Okay. Just designing?
Taliesin: Just penciling and then penciling-- I've got a notion for a watch tower that's super super simple. Platform for two people, tops, with a rope that connects to a bell so when you start heading down it, it goes (high voice) Fuck!
Matt: Great. All right. So, as you guys all come to consciousness the next day, you gather your things and you step out of the mansion into the center of Senokir's shop.
Marisha: Do we recover our point of exhaustion when we sleep?
Matt: With the long rest, you recover a point of exhaustion, so you'll all back to baseline, including you, Pike, because your Greater Restoration. Your spells are recovered, HP is recovered, if there was any loss of it. So, the day is yours, what do you wish to do?
Sam: Go to The Arches. The golden arches. Wait, first we've got to cast Seeming.
Marisha: Are we going to scout-- I guess we still need Seeming.
Ashley: So we're all going to look like Vax?
Laura: And Vex.
Ashley: And Vex. All the girls are going to look like Vex.
Liam: Three Vex's, I mean, it's kind of the same.
Laura: I mean, yeah, but one's got boobs.
Liam: Which one?
Laura: Which one? (laughter)
Sam: We're going, right? All right. So, yes, I'll cast Seeming on everyone. Making them various level heights of Vex and Vax, I guess. (laughter)
Laura: (shouting) This is awesome.
Sam: And they're slaves, right? They're slaves. Tattered clothing.
Laura: No. No, make us look like good slaves.
Taliesin: Simple white robes.
Sam: All right. Simple tattered white robes. (laughter)
Laura: No, I want to look pretty.
Ashley: You're so rich, you want us clean.
Laura: Make us clean, like pretty slaves.
Sam: You're clean. That's right. You're the best of the best. You would have the best robes. Right?
Ashley: Like Princess Leia, Jabba the Hut.
Sam: Totally right. The best, finest simple white.
Travis: And we still have the neck thing.
Sam: Absolutely. And wait, am I making him celestial-ish?
Laura: Oh yeah, make his wings, when they come out, like white wings.
Sam: Is that a celestial? What does a celestial look like? Do they glow all the time?
Taliesin: They have white wings, correct?
Matt: Most angelic entities have white or gold wings.
Marisha: Did we find out if I could Alter Self wings?
Matt: You could not. It has to be the same physical structure.
Travis: Wait a minute. We don't want him walking through the streets, to The Arches, as a celestial. We want to get him in the house.
Taliesin: When he pops his wings, the wings will be gold.
Travis: Yeah, we haven't started walking though.
Liam: Can they be gold, delayed later, when they pop out?
Matt: We'll find out.
Liam: Oh, shit. Well.
Ashley: Can you hide them under a cape?
Sam: I don't know where you hide them normally.
Laura: They only last for an hour.
Liam: In my shoulder blades.
Sam: They're in you? Ew.
Liam: Yeah, well, it feels that way.
Sam: Are you Wolverine?
Taliesin: We are learning way too much about everyone.
Travis: So Seeming on everybody but Vax, right?
Sam: No.
Laura: No. Why?
Liam: The Seeming on us-- We look like us already.
Laura: It's just clothes, though.
Travis: Have we headed to The Arches yet?
Sam: We're walking there right now.
Travis: We're going to walk with a celestial in the middle of the streets?
Laura: No, we're saying we're not making his wings look like that yet, dude.
Matt: You guys are not sure where The Arches are.
Laura: Oh. Senokir?
Matt: "Yes?"
Marisha: Should we maybe go scout the location first as regular slaves?
Laura: No.
Sam: No.
Taliesin: No.
Matt: "What do you require?"
Laura: Hi, where are The Arches?
Matt: "Do you require guidance there? Uten, why don't you bring them to The Arches. I will not be joining you."
Taliesin: That's very fair.
Matt: "I wish not to get involved with a pit fiend. I will ask though, just to be safe, if I could have, of your choice, one small bauble to remember you by. As we still have an arrangement to discuss, and knowing, to an extent, your capabilities, there's a chance that you might escape without returning to me."
Liam: Is that for memories or for some voodoo shit?
Laura: It's voodoo shit.
Matt: "It is to make sure that should you abscond without upholding your end of the deal, I can find you."
Liam: From each of us or--
Travis: I can give him one of the Sandkheg bottles.
Marisha: No, it's okay. I Druidcraft a band around his arm.
Matt: "Thank you. That'll die soon."
Marisha: You can, like, preserve it.
Travis: No, it's going to die, Keyleth. Don't--
Matt: "It'll still function. It just will be lifeless. So, continue please. Stay safe."
Taliesin: Okay.
Sam: Yeah, great.
Travis: We go.
Matt: Uten is like, "Okay, follow me. I will lead you." Even he is looking a little weird over at Senokir.
Sam: And when I cast Seeming, I also cast it on myself, making myself look like an azer?
Matt: An azer. The flaming beard dwarf.
Sam: Yeah, I don't know if I can make flames with Seeming.
Matt: We'll say for the purposes of the illusion you can pull off something that resembles flames enough to the point where it should pass.
Sam: All right, great.
Matt: All right, so, as you guys walk out into the city, you are lead by Uten on a similar path that led you by the Pyriculum where you met Whaska, but you continue past that in the northeast direction heading towards, as he tells you as you pass, near the naval grounds of the Sea of Fire. Beyond that, you guys find the streets become wider and the network of clusters of metal cages begin to adorn portions of the center street islands. Within these cages, you see humanoids of all walks of life, creatures, beasts; it's a collection, a veritable zoo of entities from all the planes, all bound to various cages, chains, and other elements, whereas efreeti individually bark from top in a language you don't understand. You see large banners and streamers set across elements of the road to mark various segments of this area, and at this point Uten turns to you and goes, "Well, you have officially reached The Arches. I will bid you adieu as I also will not want to deal with a pit fiend. Good luck."
Laura: Wait, Uten.
Matt: (sighs) "Yes."
Laura: So what happens? Are these all for sale then and--?
Matt: "All the ones that do not look like they're yelling for you to buy something. Most likely."
Laura: Okay, and then other people come through. So, if you like do the door thing here then this could potentially be a market.
Marisha: Is it okay to just set up shop?
Matt: "If you are convincing enough."
Laura: Convincing enough?
Liam: Do we need a shingle to put out front?
Sam: A sign?
Liam: Flowers to make it look pretty?
Taliesin: Keyleth, can you shape something?
Liam: Oh my god, you look just like my sister! You look just like me! That is fucking weird-- (laughter)
Liam: I'm going to go stand over by Grog. I'll talk to you later, never mind.
Matt: You go walk over to Grog and look up at a much larger, slightly butcher version of yourself staring down at you.
Liam: Yeah! Slightly? Completely butcher! (laughter)
Travis: What's up, me?
Sam: Are we going to pose and start selling?
Laura: I mean, we'll set up shop and only sell to him.
Marisha: I could also, theoretically-- I just don't know well these things can see through other things. I could do Hallucinatory Terrain right around this and make us look like a little legit kiosk. With a little entrance incorporating your door.
Sam: How much can you change the--
Marisha: I can control it as much as I want.
Taliesin: Can you grow a gazebo?
Laura: Yeah, but people will see the gazebo appear out of nowhere.
Taliesin: It's a magical tent.
Sam: What do we need to sell people? We just need a slab to put them up on. To say, "Look here, there's this one for sale."
Laura: Yeah, but we need the mansion door to get him inside so we're not going to have us outside. Are we?
Sam: Yeah, of course, we're going to have you guys outside. How else are we going to convince him that there is more good stuff inside?
Laura: Oh, I understand.
Liam: We're the showroom window.
Taliesin: Can you grow a gazebo out of grapevines?
Sam: Or just a stone slab? We don't need much. Let's not break the bank.
Marisha: I mean, I could do some Druidcraft but that's minor. Growing a gazebo out of vines, that's Plant Growth. I guess I could do Plant Growth fairly instantly, without the full-- because it's a one or the other kind of a thing.
Laura: I thought you said Hallucinatory Terrain?
Sam: Why do we need a fucking gazebo?
Laura: Let's just fucking stand here.
Liam: We don't want to look like Three Card Monte guys with a cardboard box--
Laura: What if we danced?
Sam: Matthew, what does everyone else have around them?
Marisha: I still feel like if we are a crowd of slaves at a door--
Sam: What are the other kiosks? Are there any?
Matt: There are many scenarios in which you see people being sold. You find elevated wooden platforms, you find metallic stages that are being lifted by slaves, held up, where the barker shouts out among them. There are all sorts of presentations, each person is trying to shout over the other. Many of the various humanoids and efreeti you see in the vicinity are all yelling over each other and trying to catch attention. It's this weird constant barking, almost auction type atmosphere, where it's a lot of din, noise, music, and voices shouting over each other. It's also very crowded in this area. There are a couple small parts, there's like an alleyway nearby where there is a little more of an opening. Like if there was a spot to set up it would be there, if not there's-- probably could traverse the rest of the vicinity of the slave market but currently where you are that's the one space that's not too close to an existing shop.
Travis: Set up there.
Laura: Yeah, set up there. Then Grog, you lift him up and make him look super tall and we're doing this around him.
Travis: The celestial will sell itself. We don't need anything fancy.
Liam: In a row, in a row.
Laura: In a row, doing the same move.
Marisha: Can I Druidcraft some nice inviting looking bushes?
Travis: Shrubs?
Marisha: Shrubs, yeah.
Matt: Sure, which will definitely catch attention because no vegetation exists here for the most part.
Marisha: Never mind, then.
Matt: I'm just saying it would catch attention if you want people to look in your area.
Taliesin: No, it will be fancy. I think it will be fancy.
Marisha: What?
Taliesin: Plants where there are no plants is fancy.
Travis: What?
Ashley: And if a slave can do that, that's pretty special.
Travis: Maybe we wait until we see him so we don't get unwanted buyers.
Ashley: Maybe you can do some flair as people are walking by.
Sam: Should we sit here and wait for a while?
Travis: Yup.
Taliesin: Let's keep an eye out. Why doesn't whichever one of us is the one that can be sneaky and look around.
Liam: We all need to be voguing.
Travis: We're staying together.
Laura: We'll look as we're voguing.
Taliesin: All right. All right.
Travis: We wait to see if the pit fiend shows himself.
Sam: Can you guys all do like the Robert Palmer video? (laughter)
Matt: (singing) Simply irresistible.
Laura: Do you want to give us instruments and we'll all play something?
Sam: Sure, sure. I'll play a little ditty. We'll jam to it.
Matt: There is a series of smaller buildings in the area. There is the main street that runs through here and across that street is where there are many of the various slave blocks and larger platforms set. You guys find the entrance to this alley way, which curves around behind you and there is a large wall that leads to another section beyond that. This is where you begin to set up or where you're planning to set up shop. So you guys wait there for a while. Looking about, you can see, most of the people that are selling slaves there-- some of them are humanoid, some of them are kobold servants, some of them are worse for wear, looking like they are hoping to get sold soon before they expire. You do see, across the way, two young boys maybe about 15 or so years old, light blue-- (laughter)
Matt: No, Scanlan, no. (laughter)
Matt: Light blue skin and pupil-less. They are held by red-colored chains and they look broken of spirit and they are both sitting with a hunch.
Laura: Aw, can we get them? Go get them.
Sam: Poor Nightcrawler.
Laura: Go get them and see if we can get them.
Travis: Are they celestials?
Sam: I am going to go over there and buy these two kids? For what?
Laura: Maybe and then we can set them free once we're out of here.
Sam: All right.
Travis: What?
Taliesin: What?
Travis: No, leave them alone.
Sam: This isn't our fight.
Travis: Stay on target.
Sam: Do one of you want to go over there and say hi, slave to slave?
Laura: Yeah, I'll go over there.
Sam: Yeah, sure, go on.
Matt: Okay, Vex, by the way, your alignment's back up to Chaotic Good.
Laura: Oh! (fake sobs)
Matt: That was the last little push there with that instance.
Liam: I murder an old lady. (laughter)
Liam: Welcome back.
Matt: All right, so what are you doing?
Sam: I'll walk over with her so it doesn't seem weird that my slave is wandering around, I suppose. I guess?
Laura: Yeah, talk to the guy and I'll talk to the slaves.
Sam: They have an owner?
Matt: Yeah, as you approach the two of them, with the red chain around their necks and arms and they are leaning over the edge of the small wooden platform looking dejected at the ground. And approaching them, the skin itself is like a soft white porcelain with a slight translucent blue hue to it, white pupiless eyes. They look human, but they are beautiful and out of place here. Even in their destitution, you can't help but be struck by their presence. Both their chains are currently locked to this stump that is in the center of this wooden platform and behind it you see this grotesque-looking dwarf in very fine clothing that is very very dirty and old. He stands there clutching the edges of his lapel going, "All right, we've got here before you two, two I found and kept beneath my will. For sale. With angel blood within them."
Sam: (French accent) Hello, I am slave master Francois Australia and I am curious about your two angel boys. (laughter)
Matt: "Well, if you're looking to purchase, these will both set you back about 10,000 gold apiece or 18 for the set."
Sam: (French accent) What can they do? I would be curious to find out.
Matt: (whispering) "Whatever the fuck they can do I don't know. I wasn't selling them for their skillset. I was selling them for their uniqueness."
Sam: (French accent) How do you know anything about these boys? How did you get them?
Matt: "What's it to you, small one?"
Sam: (French accent) I like to see a chain of ownership so I know that the previous owner will not hunt me down and kill me in the night!
Matt: "There is no previous owner! I went and got them myself! The chain of ownership is this chain right here." He points to the one on the stump. You can see greasy black hair that is parted in the middle, mustache comes down into a weirdly fluffy beard that has weird oily portions of it. He's an awful-looking dwarf. "So, are you going to buy or shall I wait for the ones I'm looking for?"
Sam: (French accent) Which ones are those? (laughter)
Matt: "Piss off."
Laura: (whispering) Offer him 15 for the pair.
Sam: (French accent) (whispering) Merci. (normal volume) Would you take 15 for both of them?
Matt: "Are your ears clogged? I said ten each or 18 for the bundle!"
Sam: (French accent) Yes, but you don't seem to know where they come from, who they belonged to before. It's a risk that is possibly worth 3,000 gold.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Liam: This is how Sam wooed me in 2008. (laughter)
Sam: Is this persuasion, solely? 20.
Matt: "Cash on hand? 15. (whispering) Don't tell anyone I said that."
Sam: (French accent) Oui. Oh, slave, can I have the gold? (laughter)
Sam: (normal voice) Are we really going to do this?
Laura: Yeah, we are going to buy them. We are buying them!
Travis: We're taking in everything.
Laura: They're so young! They're innocents.
Taliesin: And then we have extra slaves, it's beautiful.
Matt: "Haha. Well, it's been fine doing business with you." He puts the coins away, pulls out a piece of paper. "What's your full name?"
Sam: (French accent) Francois Bertrand Jean-Luc Australia. (laugher)
Matt: "Here you are. Transference of ownership." Grabs the chains, unhooks them, takes the lock and hands it to you. "They're yours to take. Now you two shove off! Do what the man says."
Sam: (French accent) Do they have names?
Matt: "No! It's your choice to name them!"
Sam: Au revoir.
Matt: So as the two of you walk back with these two chained boys who walk behind you--
Laura: Do you speak Common?
Matt: (stuttering) "Yes."
Laura: How did he find you?
Matt: "Well, we--" They both look at each other. "It doesn't matter, it's you who own us now."
Laura: It matters, dear.
Taliesin: Let's not have this conversation with them yet, sister, until all has been taken care of.
Laura: Ugh. (retching)
Travis: I see why we got them now. Even better bait.
Laura: Come stand over with us.
Taliesin: What, sister?
Liam: (retching)
Marisha: This is what we are now.
Liam: Grog, slap me really hard across the face right now.
Travis: Done.
Matt: Oh! He hits you and it's numb for minute. You realize, why is the world sideways? He knocked you to the ground.
Liam: Sweet, sweet ignorance.
Taliesin: Do you need a hand up, brother?
Travis: Stop hitting yourself.
Liam: I'm taking off a hit point.
Matt: The two children follow you back. They are chained and you have them at your disposal. What are you guys going to do?
Travis: We're waiting.
Sam: We're just waiting, I guess.
Laura: Do we have the mansion up?
Sam: Not yet. I'll say to the boys  You two, have you been for sale for more than a day or two?
Matt: "He's had us here for three days. Sorry."
Sam: It's all right. In that time have you seen a large red thing with big wings?
Matt: They both recoil, "No, no!"
Sam: Okay, all right. Thank you. We just wait, I suppose.
Laura: Yeah, I guess so.
Sam: You want to go buy a few more?
Laura: No, no, no, sorry. I'm sorry.
Ashley: You could just say, Angels for sale!
Liam: Wait, did you drop a bunch of gold on them?
Laura: No! No, no, no, we got an amazing deal.
Liam: Like how much?
Laura: Like, 50 gold. It was so affordable.
Taliesin: I want to do an insight check on that.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: Insight check, okay, that's 22.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Laura: With my gold. Yikes, no, I don't win.
Matt: She is lying through her teeth.
Taliesin: You're an idiot and I'm very proud of you. Don't do that again.
Laura: Don't talk to me right now. Just don't. (laughter)
Taliesin: What if I were to do a very strange accent?
Laura: No, also not attractive.
Sam: (Vex impersonation) What if you were to talk like Vex?
Laura: Don't! Stop. (laughter)
Liam: I have found, put your hand up here like this when you're talking to them because Percival sounds like Percival.
Matt: While they're talking, Keyleth, you notice, across the way, the dwarf they had spoken to and purchased these two from has packed up his things and looks around, pulls a wand out, does a large circle, and him and his kiosk vanishes.
Liam: We fit right in.
Marisha: See, there are a lot of pop-up vendors here, guys.
Taliesin: Good to know. So if you summon your magical room--
Marisha: Maybe you'll be more impressive.
Sam: Makes sense.
Travis: Can I survey the road in the direction of the embassy. Do we see anything?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: Natural one.
Laura: Aw, man!
Matt: You look over in the direction of the embassy and you stare at the embassy and from this far away it's hard to make out the shape but--
Travis: It looks like the letter ah--
Taliesin: You only know two. Pick one. (laughter)
Travis: And I stay there.
Taliesin: G and R, that's what you've got.
Laura: That is so sad.
Marisha: I could try and scry on him while we wait.
Sam: Yeah, scry again.
Travis: Nobody else wants to check the road?
Marisha: There is an alley behind us that we set up in front of?
Matt: Yes, there is an alley behind you for about 20 or so feet and then it curves off.
Marisha: Does anyone seem to be behind the alley?
Matt: From what you can see currently, no.
Marisha: Scanlan.
Sam: Oi?
Marisha: Do you want to come with me back into the alley for a little bit and watch, in case anyone sees? You could be giving me a good firm scolding, just in case.
Laura: Scanlan should be visible at all times.
Marisha: Well, it takes a minute to do the Scrying.
Sam: Vax, Vex, don't argue, we'll get through this. I mean, I'm going to go back with you so--
Marisha: Stand guard, I'll be right back.
Sam: Sure, I'll stand watch.
Marisha: I go back to a little dark corner and I pull out the Scrying Eye.
Taliesin: Pike--
Ashley: No, no, my name is Vex.
Taliesin: Vex, sister, do you want to perhaps do a walk around with the two boys and see if we can't attract some attention?
Ashley: Sure.
Sam: We're splitting the party.
Taliesin: I'm not getting far but I'm going to take the two boys--
Laura: You be careful with them.
Taliesin: I'll be very careful with them. I'm going to say, don't talk to anyone, don't look anyone in the eye, and don't answer any questions without my permission, do you understand?
Matt: "Yes."
Ashley: And don't be scared.
Matt: "Okay."
Taliesin: I've got a plan, follow my lead. This should be interesting.
Matt: As you guys begin to wander off with the two boys, Keyleth, you hold the scry crystal in your hand and, as you focus, you see this flash of heat in your mind and then darkness again. The spell has no effect.
Laura: He's not even here.
Sam: Or he's blocking it somehow.
Laura: No, I bet he's in the fucking Nine Hells right now.
Sam: Getting some money to go and come to the slave market.
Laura: Yeah, he's probably sold all the people that were hanging out with him last time.
Matt: Just so you're aware, the scry spell fails if they're not on your plane of existence or if they succeed their saving throw.
Sam: Ah!
Taliesin: You can try again in ten minutes.
Marisha: I can try again.
Taliesin: I'm going to look around for something interesting.
Matt: Okay, you begin to walk around, you hear the barking of various heavy-throated creatures. You come across this large, it looks almost like a wolf or dog but the face is a little less pronounced like a wolf and a little more humanoid in the front, but it is still bestial and monstrous. The coat is gray and matted and you can see these long fangs protruding. It barks and snarls but every single time it reaches for the bars-- and the bars themselves look like a flimsy wood-- but as it tries to tear at them or bite there is a spark of arcane energy and it backs up and seems to recoil from the attack and begins to pace back and forth in its cage again.
Taliesin: I try and discern who runs this establishment.
Matt: You also see behind that, there are two more cages that contain these very large insect-like creatures that have very long bodies with multiple legs, looks like a set of eight or so legs, almost like an oversized praying mantis, the giant pincers in the front, but they are currently collapsed on the ground within their cages resting in the heat. Behind them you see an individual that appears to be a similar racial background as Senokir, but is older with this red and graying goatee that comes to a very defined point at the end of the chin and is currently sitting, sipping off of a wine skin and watching you. (slurp)
Taliesin: Most humble greetings, good master.
Ashley: I'll bow as well.
Taliesin: My sister and I have been sent by our owner to peruse the market for things that he might enjoy and I have been asked to inquire upon the nature of what you're selling and your suggested price. Never making eye contact.
Matt: "Very well. We have today, and today only, two ankhegs for sale. Mind you, not bound. The will is yours to break. And one barghest at the front. The prices: the ankhegs are 500 gold apiece, the barghest, 8,000 gold."
Taliesin: My master is always interested in creatures of unusual disposition and he will be excited to know what you have for sale. I thank you for your time. May I please leave your-- I've lost my brain.
Matt: "Yes, please, go."
Taliesin: I bow, I back off properly. What are you feeding me in this cup? (laughter)
Matt: As time progresses and you guys have been wandering around, eventually the image does come across your mind as you wish to-- You wanted to Scry again?
Marisha: Yeah, whenever I can.
Matt: Okay. Still no success, unfortunately.
Taliesin: I'm making sure that the whole market knows that there is someone perusing and purchasing for unusual creatures and making sure they see the weird twins and the two angelic-- I'm making a show of it. And I'm making a show of our non-chained obedience.
Matt: As it progresses, the actual twins, you notice far up the way to where The Arches begin, you see a sight you've been seeking this entire time. You see a large, deep red entity begin strolling down the street with its burly rippling armored muscles, its giant red wings flared out behind it, its horned head and crest piercing the sky behind it as its burning eyes and fanged jaw and mouth. He lumps forward with each step, and as it does, you begin to see the essence of the necklace that had been described previously, dangling around its neck.
Liam: Preemptive jenga.
Sam: All right, we go back to the sales area.
Taliesin: We're not going to hurry. We're going to meander so that maybe we get seen.
Ashley: He gets a glimpse, yeah.
Liam: Can I tell you something really quick? I am super impressed with you. That was very kind. That's it. Get ready.
Matt: As you guys wait in the spot that you've chosen, the pit fiend, as you've rightfully designated it at this point, begins walking through and slowly making its way through the crowd. As it glances around, you can see it strolling up to a few bars and running its claws across. You hear the (clanking) sound of it-- thank you, Criss Angel. You see it running its claws across the bars with a heavy (clanking). It seems disinterested by many of the creatures that it passes by.
Marisha: Should I do something theatrical? Magicky?
Sam: I'll play a song. (singing) Hot in the city, hot in the city tonight! Tonight!
Matt: Make a perform check.
Sam: 23.
Matt: (heavy footsteps) It begins to eventually cross paths with the alley where you guys are situated. It turns its head and looks down to you, with your flaming beard and fire-wreathed head, playing your song. It slows its gait ever so slightly. It is an imposing and frightening entity. Even just being in its presence, even as you play the best you can, you feel everything almost slowed down in its proximity as its sheer immensity passes you, leaving you in its shadow for a momentary bit of time. In that moment, you feel the back of your neck stand on end. All the hairs immediately come to full point. You feel cold and alone as it sets its eyes upon you. It moves its gaze beyond and continues walking.
Taliesin: I'm going to walk by with the slaves.
Matt: Okay, so you come by, the other direction, as you guys finish your meandering. As you walk by, it (footsteps stopping). Looks at the two boys that you've procured and slows.
Sam: I'll call out to Percy  (French accent) It's no use! No one has enough money for our slaves! Forget it. We should clean up and go home.
Taliesin: Of course, master.
Ashley: Of course, sir. We tried so hard.
Matt: The pit fiend has turned about and is standing there with its arms crossed, watching this transpire maybe halfway up the block where you guys had set up. Its eyes narrow with a bright spark of yellow light that situates where its face is. (heavy footsteps) It saunters up in your direction, looks over to where the rest of you are, and where the two--
Sam: Is he coming over?
Matt: He's heading in your direction.
Sam: Okay, I'll summon the magnificent mansion door, and I'll say to the slaves: (French accent) All right, it was worth a try, but we must pack it in.
Matt: As you're saying this, the pit fiend puts a hand up. Its mouth doesn't move but you hear a voice piercing deep inside your head. It says, "Stop. I have discourse to make with you, small one."
Sam: But of course. I am here to sell, if you are here to buy.
Matt: "I have interest with your aasimar."
Sam: (French accent) They are for sale, for a good price.
Taliesin: I've already brought them into the mansion. I've already handed them off and said: Put them very far downstairs. Hide them.
Matt: You bring them into the mansion?
Taliesin: Oh yeah. I've brought them into the mansion and have put them downstairs. The servants are taking them down.
Sam: (French accent) We have already packed up for the day, but if this is a serious business proposal, well, I can go in and fetch them.
Matt: The creature leans down toward you, the pit fiend's very presence itself almost causing the air to vibrate around you. Though it is not the largest creature that you've faced, there is something about its presence that is purely evil. A bastion of power across all elements of the cosmos that you haven't had stare you down at this proximity. As it leans forward, the voice once again pierces the center of your brain. "It would do well to bring them forth."
Sam: (French accent) I cannot just communicate with them. Would you join me inside my shop? There you will see many other fine specimens.
Matt: "What is your price?"
Sam: (French accent) Well, you haven't seen what I have to offer.
Matt: "I have seen enough."
Sam: (French accent) So you are not interested in the naga, the goristro, the other celestial beings? The orcs?
Matt: Make a deception check.
Travis: Deceiving the devil, come on, baby!
Sam: 31.
Liam: (airhorn noises)
Matt: "Perhaps in time, but now I seek the aasimar in your possession."
Liam: But I did the airhorn!
Sam: (French accent) If you please, and with due respect, I do not see any jewelry or fineries on your person. Can you afford such prices that I will quote you?
Matt: As you say this, the eyes narrow. It leans back as its head cocks slightly. "Have you never done business in this city before?"
Sam: (French accent) I'm afraid that I haven't. But if you are serious, and it seems that you are by the way that you are not moving your mouth--
Matt: He begins walking away from you.
Sam: (French accent) Wait! Would you like to come inside with me and see them for yourself?
Matt: It has completely written you off and is walking northward, back from whence it came.
Travis: Quick, throw a price out!
Sam: (French accent) 30,000 apiece!
Matt: (footsteps) Slows its gait, turns around, (footsteps) keeps walking.
Sam: (French accent) 10,000!
Matt: It stops. Turns around and starts heading back toward you. (footsteps) The voice once again pierces, this time even more intense, more oppressive. You've seen shadow. You've never really felt it inside you before. The voice itself presses against your will. You hear it say, "Your price is acceptable. You know the Embassy is good to pay. Present the charges, and I will take them."
Laura: Can I come out and bow before Scanlan and say, "Forgive me, master, for interrupting, but the female aasimar is fighting back."
Sam: (French accent) Well, put her-- ugh-- I'm so sorry, sir. I must go deal with this. I don't want to make you wait here. You are clearly a man of respect.
Matt: "I will wait." It stays there, across the way, with its arms crossed, about ten feet from you.
Sam: (French accent) I will be right back, I promise.
Laura: I know she is much more powerful than the boys, but we cannot control her.
Sam: Did she use the magic?
Laura: All of it, my master! All of the magic!
Sam: Oh my god. Oh my god! I run into the mansion.
Matt: I would like you to make a deception check and you to make a deception check, please.
Travis: (laughing) Did she use the magic?
Sam: Can I inspire myself? Can I, after I know my roll?
Matt: Yeah, that's part of what's good about it.
Sam: Oh. Well, then fucking yes, I'll inspire myself. That helps.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Sam: One.
Matt: That's an auto-fail.
Laura: I rolled a 28.
Sam: Hey, she's good!
Matt: Well, as you charge in, and you're staying outside of the door? You watch as the creature, staring at Scanlan-- or his persona-- talk to you and then charge through the doorway. The pit fiend (sniffs) looks over to you.
Sam: Inside the mansion, I run up to Grog and I say: Cut me! Cut my face, cut my arms, cut me. Right now.
Travis: Okay, I pick him up by the top of his head and I do a one, two, three!
Laura: While I'm outside, I say  Could I offer you some refreshments, great master?
Matt: The voice echoes through your head in a way that is genuinely the stuff of nightmares. You feel your will crack slightly at its presence. It says, "No."
Laura: (small voice) Okay.
Travis: I also spit in your eye so it starts to water.
Sam: Great. I run out of the mansion. (French accent) Oh my god! Oh! It's incredible in there! She is so powerful! She cut me with her mind! Please, come with me, I will need help with this.
Matt: The voice says, "Your deceptions are angering and useless. If there is no business to be had, I will let the embassy know. You will not have business in this city ever again."
Liam: I slowly flex out my black wings, slowly, and lower them, and take a step half-covering you, and say, Are you all right, master? Do you need my help?
Sam: I think so? I'll say to the young man  All right, I am sorry to play these games and haggle with prices. I will go fetch them immediately. I'll go in the mansion and yell: Fucking jenga! We've got to fucking kill this guy! We've got to go kill him right now! Come on! Let's go!
Travis: Well, we're inside. Do we want to set up a sneak attack? Can we?
Laura: It's too late!
Travis: Why?
Laura: Because he's outside, dude! I'm out there with him. So is Vax.
Travis: Who's inside the mansion?
Marisha: We didn't really specify.
Matt: Yeah, you're in the alleyway still.
Marisha: I'm in the alleyway with the twins.
Liam: How are the twins and boss-man here arranged in the alley, or outside the door?
Matt: The doorway is in the alley. It's right where the alley meets the street. Keyleth is behind the alley. The twins are on the sides of the doorway, so you guys are along the sidewalk of the street. Grog is inside, along with Scanlan, Percy, and Pike.
Liam: What's our proximity to him?
Matt: He's about 15 feet from you guys. He's across the street, at this point, with his arms crossed, keeping a distance.
Marisha: 15 feet across the street?
Sam: I can go out with the two angels, get him to come over and look at them, at least. Then you guys can pour out? I don't know.
Travis: You can bring them out in front of the house if you want to. Then when he walks over we can--
Sam: Yeah, bring them up.
Laura: I don't want him to hurt them.
Marisha: I packed this, just in case.
Sam: You want to be an angel?
Marisha: No, I packed Feeblemind.
Laura: What does that do?
Sam: It could maybe work.
Marisha: It's an 8th-level spell, and it makes him stupid.
Sam: Can you look like an angel?
Marisha: No. Well, I could use Alter Self.
Laura: Can you make yourself step out-- no, I said there was a female.
Marisha: As one of the female aasimar?
Matt: You guys are having this conversation over your earpiece?
Sam: No, but we're in the-- oh shit. She's not there.
Matt: I was going to say. But you're in direct line of sight to the pit fiend.
Laura: So I'm not saying anything. I'm sorry.
Marisha: This guy has to make an intelligence saving throw.
Sam: All right, you do whatever you want. Give me the angels. I'm going to go back out there.
Marisha: Do you want me to try and make this guy stupid?
Sam: Yeah, if you can! Do whatever you can! All I'm trying to do is get him to stay long enough for you guys to do something.
Travis: Yeah, get him to come toward the door.
Marisha: He's 15 feet away?
Sam: Are you inside the mansion?
Marisha: No, I'm outside. I'm in the alleyway. How many feet away am I from him?
Matt: From him right now? About 35 feet.
Marisha: Is he aware of my presence?
Matt: You don't know.
Marisha: I'm going to saunter further down the alleyway. This has a 150-foot range.
Matt: Okay, so you pull even further back? Okay, make a stealth check.
Marisha: Ooh, that's good. 21.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I've got the angels. I'm walking back out. Right?
Laura: No!
Ashley: I'll be behind them.
Matt: Okay, so Pike is coming out with the two aasimar.
Laura: Fuck.
Travis: I'll exit the mansion too, and start walking toward the embassy a few steps, slowly. Just to get distance.
Laura: I get ready. The minute, well, never mind.
Marisha: Okay. So wait, what are you doing?
Sam: I'm going outside with the two angels.
Matt: So, you exit with the reddish chains in hand and both of the boys exit with you. As soon as they walk out of the portal and they see, across the way, the pit fiend standing there with his arms crossed, they both (gasps) you hear the breath escape their lungs as the fear hits them. The pit fiend's arms go lax. You can see a bit of a smile on its face, now. It looks like its pensive frustration in waiting has been expended. The voice says, "You will be paid."
Sam: All right.
Taliesin: Money first.
Sam: I don't want to fucking bargain with this thing.
Marisha: As he goes to hand over the chains, right as he goes to reach for it, I'm going to do Feeblemind.
Matt: Feeblemind, okay.
Marisha: Jesus fucking Christ!
Sam: Don't miss and hit me, babe!
Matt: All righty, what's the DC on this?
Marisha: He's got to make an intelligence saving throw.
Matt: Correct, and what's your spell DC?
Marisha: 19.
Matt: 19. Okay.
Laura: Oh god. Natural one, natural one.
Marisha: Come on, come on.
Matt: All right. As it takes one step forward toward Scanlan, you, in the back of the alleyway, extend your finger. You watch as this slight shift of light travels forward, like a slight ripple, almost like a miniature breaking of the sound barrier. Strikes across the air. Seems to collide with the front of the pit fiend. As it hits, the energy (fizzling) dissipates, not affecting its form. You watch as the pit fiend suddenly, its attention--
Marisha: He takes 4d6 psychic damage.
Matt: He does.
Liam: Was Scanlan walking toward him, or had they gotten right up against each other?
Laura: I release Trinket from my crystal necklace.
Marisha: He saved from it, didn't he?
Matt: He does not appear affected by the ability.
Marisha: He's not affected by the ability?!
Matt: I mean, he took damage, but the Feeblemind did not seem to alter him.
Laura: Are there any of the efreeti guards around?
Matt: Currently, you do not see any. However, let's go ahead and pick up this confrontation next week. It's 11:00. If we jump into this now, we'll be here past midnight.
Taliesin: No, yeah, we're calling it.
Marisha: Gives us time to think.
Laura: We took too long.
Matt: It's all good.
Taliesin: This got wonderfully bad.
Liam: I'm going to forget by next week. Is Scanlan walking toward him, or had Scanlan gotten right next to him?
Matt: Scanlan stepped out of the door and walked out just enough-- Scanlan is probably ten feet from the door, there, right behind him, just emerged from the doorway. He's about ten feet from Scanlan, and 15 from-- Correct. I'll set up the arrangement for next week. I'll put something together for you guys so you know what we're going to start with next week. But yeah, we're going to jump in, next Thursday, into a mid-street City of Brass battle.
Liam: Sextuplets!
Sam: Vex, Vax, Vax, Vex, Vex, and Vax!
Matt: Here's the one thing I'm going to leave you with, because I feel this is important. As soon as you guys watch this slight dissipation of arcane energy splash across the torso and head of the pit fiend, and it steps onto its back foot, and you all realize this is the Jenga moment. As you're preparing to go into combat, you watch as the pit fiend narrows its eyes and, from immediately to its left, a small, localized gateway tears open and out from it you watch a humanoid female with large, red, feathered wings, carrying some sort of glowing lasso or rope at her side, armor, and a large weapon, with a bow slung across her shoulder, flies out next to the pit fiend. "You rang?"
Laura: Aw, fuck.
Matt: And that's where we'll pick up next week.
Laura: We're doomed.
Matt: So, we'll see you guys next week. Thank you very much. Thank you, Ashley, for coming and playing.
Ashley: I won't be here next week.
Matt: You won't be here next week? Aw, you're filming Thursday? Aw.
Liam: What you going to be working on?
Ashley: I don't know. Stuffs and stuffs.
Travis: Yay, Pike!
Marisha: We'll get you that armor!
Matt: Well, guys, thank you very much. Have a good night, rest well. Thank you, Loot Crate. Is it Thursday yet? See you guys soon. [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Sound: ♪
Matt: Welcome back, guys. I hope you enjoyed your-- your holiday. Hope you enjoyed your new year and are ready to tackle all the chaos this year has coming. Both fists forward. So, missed you guys. Last we left off was a little crazy, but before we get to that circumstance, let's go ahead and start with our announcements. Yay! (cheers) First and foremost, our first episode of the year is sponsored by us happy to be back. We have no sponsor tonight. (cheers)
Marisha: Happiness!
Matt: So sponsored instead by viewers like you. So... Thank you. But, yeah, so other announcements we have. Me and Marisha will be running from this episode tonight to pack and leave at a super early, pre-dawn flight. Pretty much, or at dawn flight, to MAGFest. We'll be there getting in later tomorrow, and be there this weekend. So, those of you who are going to MAGFest, we'll see you there. We have--
Laura: Is that what it is, just a lot of magazines?
Matt: Just a lot of magazines.
Taliesin: People, US Weekly.
Marisha: Oprah.
Matt: We pretty much got in there only because of the article in Game Informer. That's the only reason we were invited. No, MAGFest is great. We have a Critical Role panel tomorrow evening that me and Marisha will be doing, and other fun stuff Saturday and Sunday. So, look for us in the schedule and we'll look forward to seeing you guys at the actual event. Travis, you wanted to mention something real quick?
Travis: Yes! I wanted to give a quick shout out to Kathy Creshe, Creshaw, I don't know how to say it.
Taliesin: That was a good shout out.
Travis: From Pennsylvania.
Sam: Big fan of the show?
Travis: We love you, from us, to you.
Laura: We read your email.
Travis: It was wonderful.
Travis: Sam!
Sam: Uh, yeah, tonight's sponsor is Critical Role, as you said, we have lots of stuff. Lots of merchandise available in the store. The logo shirt, mugs, patches, nail wraps, hats, key chains, and necklaces are available and if you didn't see it over the Christmas break, we have the Gilmore shirts and the "How do you want to do this?" shirts and you guys know this, we have a big Spanish speaking fan base, and I wanted to give them some love, so I thought I'd do our ad tonight in Spanish. Two notes, two notes, I don't speak Spanish, and second note is my neighbor's son translated this for me. So, he's in Spanish Two. Should be pretty basic.
Travis: Not, "He's Spanish too."
Sam: No, he's-- he's a sophomore in high school. Hola, me llamo Sam Riegel. Aquí está mi perro. Se llama Travis Willingham. Una broma. ¿Te gustan las camisas t-shirt? Espero que sí porque tenemos dos camisas t-shirt para vender en nuestra tienda. Una es color morado. Es para Gilmore's Glorious Goods. (laughter) La otra no es morado, es gris. Tiene el slogan de Matthew Mercer, which is... ¿Como quieres hacer esto? (laughter) No cuestan muchos pesos. Tu vas a ir internet y comprar ahora. ¡Gracias por favor! (applause, cheers)
Travis: Muy bien!
Marisha: Yay for Spanish Two!
Taliesin: High school Spanish is the official language of Los Angeles, well done.
Travis: A future translator will then, like, show up?
Sam: I don't know.
Taliesin: It'll be insulted. Actually, yeah, it'll actually Google translate and will be like, I refuse to even touch this.
Sam: It's for our Spanish language viewers. -There are many.
Travis: That was great.
Matt: This is true. Thank you so much. Anyone else? Oh, I want to announce real fast too. We received quite a bit of Critmas gifts after we had filmed the Critmas episode last month. So, as we're slowly retrieving them from the mailbox, me, Marisha, Taliesin, and possibly anybody that's available at the time, Liam, Laura will be doing a Periscope opening of the rest of those gifts in the next couple of weeks or so. Be announcing it ahead of time, so pay attention to that, but it is coming. So, don't worry. We'll be getting to your presents and thanking you for all your awesome unnecessary generosity. You're so wonderful and we'll let you know once it's happening. Anybody else have any other announcements they want to make?
Travis: Hands up!
Sam: Uh?
Travis: Hands up!
Matt: Alright, great. That being the case.
Marisha: I don't know--
Liam: I don't know what this--
Matt: Let's go ahead and dive in. To the first 2017 episode of Critical Role.
Taliesin: ♪ Do you believe in life after-- ♪♪ (growling, screaming) ♪ (electricity crackling) ♪
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome back. So, getting us up to speed with the current circumstance that we left off at the end of last episode. Vox Machina, the main adventurers, spending the better part of this past year under the shadow of the Chroma Conclave, a group of ancient chromatic dragons that have banded together, seemingly under the banner of Thordak, The Cinder King, a great red dragon that had been sealed in the fire elemental plane for a number of years. Newly released and carrying with him what was called a soul anchor. A magical artifact made from the heart of a fire primordial that had begun to cause him to mutate and swell and become something beyond what he was. Also driving him apparently insane. As he dominated the countryside of Tal'Dorei, along with the rest of the Conclave, you gather artifacts of great power called the Vestiges of Divergence under the guidance of two sphinx allies. You travel between various planes and gathering these artifacts gathered allies and prepared for this climactic confrontation in your home city of Emon, now partially brought to ruin and flame. You assembled an army. You snuck beneath the city. You arrived within the center of the Cloudtop district nearly under the nose of Thordak's defending hordes, and through a climactic seeming sacrifice by your friends Kashaw and Zahra, were allowed to pass directly into the Cloudtop heading off Thordak before he could emerge from his subterranean lair and lay waste to the armies as they pushed inward towards his lair. ♪
Travis: When you say it like that.
Matt: There you all did battle with the great colossal Thordak, The Cinder King. A well prepared fight rolled out and while there was much danger, you all persevered and managed to, using the vestiges, destroy the soul anchor once it was revealed within the body of the great red dragon. His form rescinding and withering back to its regular, seemingly withering size. You-- it attempted to flee back into its lair, but the rather rapid and temporarily winged rogue, Vax'ildan gave chase and dealt a finishing blow to the great red beast midway through its cavern towards its lair. There you were joined briefly by your sister and an ally you had made through this circumstance, Raishan, one green dragon. The member of the Conclave that seemingly had made a tenuous alliance with you as her goal also was to destroy Thordak. Aiding you in the battle, Raishan followed suit and upon the corpse of Thordak laying cut, bleeding and dead in the center of this cavern, she wished to take her end of the deal you had made. To be left alone with the corpse for a moment to acquire some secret knowledge that apparently she was seeking from the dead dragon. Upon releasing the energy from the scroll which she had utilized the incantation from, you decided that vengeance being your oath as a paladin and the history that you have with Keyleth and Keyleth's people that died under the guise of Raishan's initial plotting with Thordak to not let this creature stand and attacked it. Both you and your sister, just as Keyleth began to arrive. The rest of the party slowly staggering behind. Raishan sneered and went further back into the cavern. You all gave chase into this dark, volcanic tunnel system which then opened up into a large, red flaming cavern filled with lava pools and rivers, and apparently a handful of red eggs, it looked like scattered throughout this room. Thick dark red crimson scales with crystalline formations pouring out of the sides. Very similar to Thordak's primordial dragon form. Upon finding not Raishan, but just this empty space, you looked up to see a series of arcane summoned meteors suddenly given form, rocketing from the ceiling of the cavern and slamming into the floor dealing some of you a pretty dangerous blow and sending you scattering across the floor a bit. Vex being thrown across the way. You all managed to survive as at the end of the last battle, I'd forgotten that you had made your save and you actually, your bludgeon damage was halved, so Vex is conscious, though still hurting.
Sam: ♪ Whoo ♪
Liam: ♪ Whoo ♪♪
Matt: As the dust settles and you all take stock of what had just transpired, you see the snout of the green dragon pull up into what appears to be a series of dark volcanic exhaust tunnels that seem to be like a hive network of-- of honeycomb type tunnels that just spiral off all through the ceiling, and that's where we left off in the last sequence here.
Sam: Geez, Louise.
Matt: Which, previously, behind if I'm--if I'm correct, and I believe I am, and if not, internet, it's fine, we'll--we'll do the narrative. We have the three of you in the room. We have Percy, Scanlan, Pike and Gilmore rushing up behind as fast as they can. Grog and Kima had stayed behind to finish up one of the more recent battles and Jarret is just not going in. He is not in a place to follow suit. "You got this, you got this. Do not worry, it's okay."
Liam: Before we ran into the bigger chamber, Gilmore and Jarret had caught up with us if I remember correctly.
Matt: No, they did not.
Laura: Oh, they hadn't gotten to us.
Liam: I remember that they did.
Matt: No, they would have gotten into the chamber with you. Only the three of you made it into the chamber.
Liam: That's what I mean.
Matt: They got into the tunnel, but they hadn't got up to your guys. The speed in which you guys all got there was basically just Raishan and the three of you, then the attack happened. Raishan rushed in, you rush after her. Everyone else has kinda been left in the dust. They're not too far behind you, but things be as they may. We begin tonight's episode at this next round of combat. Continuing where we last did.
Laura: Oh, God, oh God!
Marisha: Jesus Christ.
Travis: Oh God, oh God, oh God.
Matt: So--
Sam: Why from there? You're fine.
Taliesin: No, stop, don't.
Marisha: Yeah, police.
Matt: So, at the top of this combat round, technically, Percy, you have the initiative on this. You are continuing to push through this-- this hallway. You haven't quite even, at a double dash, you can hear explosions in the distance and then you guys watch as suddenly smoke, silt and ash come flying through the tunnel from within immediately followed by the sound of these large, heavy, banging explosions. Some sort of heavy impact, a series of impacts seem to have detonated deep within the tunnel and immediately set everyone in the vicinity on edge knowing that something is still transpiring in a very dangerous way deeper within this tunnel.
Taliesin: I am throwing on my mask and I am running into the room. I'm actually gonna be spider crawling. I'm gonna be on the-- on the walls so that I'm-- yeah. I don't want to be in the line of anything that happens.
Marisha: That's awesome.
Liam: Spider Percy's my favorite Percy.
Matt: It's just the feet, Percy.
Marisha: ♪ Spider Percy, Spider Percy ♪♪
Matt: You can if you want, if you really want to.
Sam: He's like walking like this?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Running.
Sam: Cool!
Taliesin: This ain't Dr. Strange, this is--
Liam: He's doing this and nothing's happening.
Taliesin: Out of fluid, you know.
Liam: If anyone can make it, it's you.
Taliesin: I know, I got to make-- I got to make Spider-- Spider Percy.
Matt: So, anyway, that ends your turn. You--you run past on the side of the wall, as the ash begins to settle around you as you run past, kind of preparing your weapons for a coming confrontation, you glance out to your right and see there the smoldering wreckage of red scales and dragon blood that was once Thordak, the cinder king. You see that and down it's about-- You keep running. You can see a gentle glimmer in the distance of a battlefield, but you're not quite there yet.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: Okay, the top of the round. The three of you finding yourselves in this circumstance. We go to the lair actions. So, these lair actions are--
Laura: Oh God.
Matt: Of Thordak's lair, as this is not Raishan's lair, but even though Thordak is dead, the lair itself has its own natural, naturally occurring dangers.
Travis: Damn it!
Matt: So.
Sam: What? That don't make no sense, man. Thordak's dead. His lair dies with him.
Matt: Over time! Maybe, you don't know.
Travis: His home security system still pays for it.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Exactly, yeah. It's-- it's on a recurring subscription plan. So, there will be--
Taliesin: How do I pee?
Matt: The lava that you had just landed across. So, Vex'ahlia, as you are knocked from the explosions of the meteors from landing on your back, and just barely getting back up to your feet, your vision comes back as you see the stream of lava that's just barely pouring past. Very slowly begins to...
Laura: I back up, I back up.
Matt: As it opens and sprays here at 20 foot radius.
Laura: I climb back up and I bump an egg.
Matt: I'm going to bring out my templates.
Taliesin: No.
Laura: This is gonna kill me, isn't it?
Matt: This will explode and all three of you-- I need you all three to make dexterity saving throws.
Marisha: Oh, boy.
Taliesin: Yay.
Marisha: This is great.
Laura: Cool. This is-- is this--
Taliesin: First roll of 2017.
Laura: Oh, wait, I'm hasted.
Marisha: Twenty total.
Sam: Twenty total's good.
Marisha: Yeah!
Laura: Seven.
Liam: Twenty-seven.
Matt: Okay, that's fine. So, as it is a hotter, more dangerous vicinity here, the damage is higher, but you all managed to make your saves, so you're only taking half damage as you all avoid from the spray of magma that just bursts out and splashes in your area.
Liam: Evasion keeps me at zero, yeah?
Matt: Yes, because you have your rogue evasionness, and it's three ones, alright.
Laura: Yay.
Taliesin: Yay.
Matt: So, that'll be 18 points of fire damage reduced to nine. (indistinguishable dialogue)
Marisha: I mean, I'm not, you know.
Laura: Still terrified.
Marisha: Taking it for granted. (talking over each other) Yeah, yeah, something like that. Or five, it's debatable. Depends on the health of the people.
Matt: Next up in the initiative order is Raishan.
Laura: Oh, good.
Matt: So, as the splash happens, you glance up and you can see what looks to be a series of maybe a dozen or so of these volcanic lava tubes that kind of are these-- these caverns roughly the size of a very low live, kind of pushed in cat-like Raishan. You see the head and the tail kind of hanging out the side as Raishan begins to mutter some sort of an incantation under her breath. You hear the echo... (whispering incantation) Between the room as it kind of quivers for a second. And her form just vanishes.
Travis: Damn it.
Liam: But we saw where she was before she went into--
Matt: You did.
Sam: Fight over, that's it. That's great.
Laura: Oh my God, she-- she ran away.
Sam: Alright, let's mop up here and go home.
Travis: Punk ass, Raishan.
Marisha: The air ate her.
Matt: I guarantee you that's probably not the case. No.
Travis: You're saying there's a chance.
Matt: Yes. Alrighty.
Marisha: Dude.
Taliesin: Just shunned her into invisibility.
Matt: Great. That brings us next to Keyleth's turn.
Laura: Keyleth, just kill her. Find her and kill her so we can get--
Marisha: Whereabouts was she last?
Matt: Last you saw was up in this cavernous area roughly in this portion of the ceiling.
Marisha: But we can assume she probably went invisible and then moved.
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: I could do Faerie Fire on her, but I mean, I don't know where she is and it's a 20 foot cube. It'd probably be a waste. So, instead, I'm going to cast Call Lightning at fourth level, and go fire elemental.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: How's that work?
Laura: It's an ongoing-- Lightning is an ongoing--
Marisha: Yeah, it's a concentration. Yeah, I can make it--
Sam: So it just exists there? -Ready to strike?
Taliesin: Like a ghostbuster.
Sam: Cool.
Matt: So, as you watch Keyleth's eyes flare with this bright electric kind of blue yellow light, as the ash and bit of dust that has been kind of plummeting from the ceiling from the impact of the meteor swarms and the movement of some now not seeable dragon amongst the ceiling caverns. It gathers into this swirling storm that begins to build and form across the top domed portion of this cavern. As it does, you watch bolts of electricity... Arc through the storm as Keyleth's form then whooshes into a burst swirl of flaming energy. Her physical body now becoming a swirling fire elemental. You wish to move or you're gonna stay where you are?
Marisha: I'm going to take a few steps back and-- question. Can I look up and see if, like, the clouds are kind of shaping around like a, you know, roughly dragon shaped body? That make sense?
Taliesin: She's looking for disturbances of the force.
Matt: Sure.
Marisha: You gave me that "this is bullshit" look.
Taliesin: Roll a 29.
Marisha: Oh, that's not bad. With perception, perception. Sorry, I'm so nervous, 26.
Matt: Twenty-six. Glancing about between the dust that's falling, the movement of the storm that you've gathered at the roof of the ceiling, you don't see anything that identifies the location of a dragon now.
Marisha: Yeah, so it's fine. So, I'll take a few steps back.
Matt: So you're about right there?
Marisha: Yeah, oh, oh.
Taliesin: Wow, it's weirdly mirrored. Okay, that took me a second.
Marisha: It's totally mirrored.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Laura: Oh!
Taliesin: Yeah, I know, cool.
Liam: Your screen is flipped.
Laura: That's crazy.
Marisha: It's fine. It's not a problem.
Taliesin: We have the same view you do.
Laura: It's actually, no, I think it's better, because we're looking at it from his perspective.
Taliesin: So, we can say like, "move us down," and they'll be towards him now. Yeah.
Marisha: I'm sorry, so move me--
Matt: Further in?
Marisha: Yeah, down-- down.
Sam: Towards the lava or away from the lava?
Marisha: Right there, down one more. -Other way.
Taliesin: South.
Laura: Oh my God.
Marisha: South. Yeah, that's good, that's-- that's good.
Taliesin: There.
Matt: Good, alright.
Laura: Where's our pointer?
Matt: Where's your laser pointers guys?
Taliesin: Where are our pointers? We need new pointers.
Laura: It's been three weeks, Matt.
Matt: It has been, I know.
Sam: We've forgotten how to play.
Matt: That's okay. Alright, so--
Marisha: It's like inverted controls.
Taliesin: I'm taking Diva.
Matt: Now, is that your turn?
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: Alright, finishing Keyleth's turn. That brings us to Gilmore who's rushing up past--
Laura: Come on, Gilmore.
Matt: Keeping up his pace as much as he can. "Oh, boy. I know you guys take me to the nicest places." And he's just jogging as best he can. Rushing into the ash cloud as another one pushes through. Some of the wind tending to push and causing swirling little dust devils of ash and cinder. That's gonna end his turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: So you glance up.
Laura: I glance up.
Matt: You see all this happening, what are you gonna do?
Laura: I'm gonna get on my broom.
Taliesin: Get on up.
Laura: And I'm gonna take a health potion.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: So...
Matt: Regular health potion?
Laura: I have a Greater.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I have one Greater. So, that's a what? 4d8?
Matt: A Greater is 4d4 plus four. Remember you guys are pretty low on any powerful potions at this point. You used most of them, so, yeah.
Laura: Yeah, yeah, I had a Greater left. It's jack shit. Ten, ten whole points.
Matt: There you go, ten points of healing. On your broom.
Laura: I'm gonna go back towards the entrance. Post up to the entrance, like off the ground as far as I can get.
Matt: That's about as far as you can get. You want to stay hovering or just like there on the ground?
Laura: Hovering! Stay off the ground and can I--
Matt: Are you going up ten feet or 20 feet or are you staying just above the ground so you're not standing on it?
Laura: I'm gonna go up ten feet.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And if I can be a little bit further away from Keyleth, that'd be clutch.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I mean, I don't know if it'd be clutch, but it would be helpful. Can I look up, and see if I can see like, dust coming down from any of the holes, to see if Raishan is moving around in the holes on the ceiling--
Matt: Roll a perception check.
Liam: There's a storm cloud.
Laura: I know, I know. Is this pertaining to dragons so I would get advantage?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: That's the same thing.
Liam: Two 13's.
Laura: So, perception, so that's 26.
Matt: Okay, so glancing about, unfortunately, the gathering of the Call Lightning cloud combined with the other dark ash-filled interior, you don't see anything that signifies the location of a dragon. You do glance over and you notice that where you landed previously, one of the eggs was pretty much just destroyed by this-- 'cause it was the area of the meteor swarm where you guys were hit. So, all gathered here, so this egg right here by where you were, is currently just crushed inward and filled with rock.
Marisha: And--
Laura: Really? Is there anything oozing out of it?
Marisha: Yeah, what's--
Laura: I should have looked at it before.
Matt: It's hard to see, it's far away, but it looks like the egg has been destroyed.
Laura: Destroyed?
Sam: Destroyed?
Laura: She doesn't care about the eggs.
Sam: Or she didn't destroy it.
Liam: Not the Mama!
Laura: Okay, so I've got-- I'm so sorry.
Marisha: That's true.
Travis: So, it's covered with rocks.
Laura: I don't know where my notes are to see what my spells were from before. I didn't have it set up cause I'm a horrible person.
Marisha: But that was from the lair action.
Sam: Yeah, that wasn't her.
Laura: Okay, this is-- this is the last one. Oh, I didn't do like any spells before. So, I'm gonna cast-- I'm gonna cast Cure Wounds on myself.
Matt: Okay. What level?
Marisha: Yeah, but does she care or even not care?
Taliesin: We'll find out.
Laura: I'm gonna cast it at third level.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: So, that's 1d8-- 2d8 plus my spell casting modifier.
Matt: So, a 3d8 technically.
Laura: 3d8?
Matt: Cause if you're casting at third level, it's 3d8 plus your spell modifier.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: That's good, that's good, that's good.
Marisha: This is turning into a Jerry Springer episode. Is she or is she not the mom?
Laura: No, my modifier, which is my wisdom. Ten plus-- Jesus Christ, I'm sorry! Ten plus--
Taliesin: Three weeks, man.
Laura: Thirteen points heal.
Marisha: It's like riding a bike, riding a bike.
Liam: Three weeks to stew, everybody.
Matt: Alright, there you go. At the end of your turn-- Actually she's gonna do--
Taliesin: It's like riding a bike with pen and paper.
Matt: Okay. You feel this strange, sudden warm tingling sensation separate from the healing spell just in your vicinity. Almost like a warm breeze just kind of passes through you. That's it.
Sam: Oh, boy.
Matt: End of your turn.
Sam: What does that mean?
Laura: I don't know.
Sam: You've been cursed forever.
Travis: It's a bloody fart.
Taliesin: Farting dragon. Invisible farting dragon.
Laura: What if that was a baby dragon?
Liam: I'm gonna take to the air. I'm going to-- do I still feel hasted yet?
Matt: You-- yes, you do.
Liam: I'm going to fly past my sister and slap the one Greater healing potion I have into her palm.
Laura: Oh, thank you.
Liam: Oh, Superior, excuse me.
Laura: What?!
Liam: And then I'm going to curve around over Keyleth and stab the egg there with the Dragon Slayer blade.
Sam: Oh, boy.
Matt: This one?
Liam: Yes.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Stabbing eggs?
Taliesin: That should give you a Dragon Slayer bonus also.
Matt: Go ahead and roll for attack.
Travis: Isn't that poaching?
Liam: That is 29.
Matt: That hits.
Sam: Go home Travis, you're drunk.
Travis: I'm working on it.
Laura: The babies will help us though. What if the babies are cute? -Can we raise them?
Taliesin: No.
Marisha: You want to try and Daenerys this shit?
Taliesin: We can raise them by setting them on fire.
Marisha: We each get one, you guys.
Liam: Twenty-six.
Matt: Twenty-six points of damage. Alright, you take the blade as you rush up and then hack through it. The blade only gets a few inches into the tough outer exterior of this egg and you have to push and carve through and you do carve a-- a sliver through the egg's shell and a little bit of deep, brownish-maroon liquid begins to spill out of it, but that's-- it's not a heavy amount of damage to the egg.
Liam: I'm gonna take Whisper and take that further.
Matt: Go ahead and roll for a secondary attack.
Liam: That is 28 to hit.
Matt: 28, that hits. I'll mark the eggs that are damaged and destroyed. This one is...
Liam: That's a total of 15.
Matt: Oh, that's not working too well. Good to know. Total of what?
Liam: Fifteen.
Matt: Fifteen, okay. With that much damage, the egg begins to crack even further. More of the liquid begins to spill. The blade pulls through and you can see, as you tear a chunk of the actual shell of this egg off and it falls, you have punctured some sort of thick amniotic sac. That's what the fluid that's spilling out of it, but you haven't seemingly touched any sort of flesh or creature within, but the egg is currently has a section that is exposed.
Liam: And I have--if I'm still hasted, I have a lot of movement left, so I'm going to fly and hover about 15 feet above the egg towards you, towards your DM tape on the side there.
Matt: Over here?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Fifteen feet in the air. ♪ I have 120 feet of movement total hasted.
Laura: So, we were lining up? We're seriously lining up?
Liam: No, I'm all the way over there.
Laura: No, you're in a line.
Liam: That's not where I want to be. I want to be--
Matt: I know, I'm-- I'm calculating how much movement you have.
Liam: I'm arguing with her, not you.
Matt: Ah, no worries.
Liam: Cause that's what we do cause we love each other.
Matt: You can get right there.
Liam: Okay. Fifteen feet in the air.
Matt: Fifteen feet in the air?
Liam: That's not the egg that I'm talking about though.
Laura: Look, I'm talking about--
Liam: I'm talking about the egg closer to Matt.
Laura: Yes, there it is.
Liam: There.
Laura: That one!
Liam: This is where I want to go.
Laura: That's where you are, dude.
Liam: That's over there?
Laura: Yeah, it's reverse.
Liam: It's the--it's the flip screen is-- I don't want to go there. I want to go across from everybody. It's the flip.
Sam: Guys, just don't look at the TV. Look at the screen.
Matt: Over this way?
Travis: Closer, Matt?
Liam: I'm gonna kill you all.
Matt: Bare with this, new tech. New year, we're making this work.
Liam: There, there. The egg that's there.
Taliesin: I have a brilliant solution for this for next time.
Matt: So, from there-- yeah. You wouldn't be able to make it there.
Liam: Literally, in game.
Sam: Invert controls.
Travis: It's like a jet fighter.
Marisha: Battleship.
Taliesin: We can Battleship it. Next time, next time, we'll just have a row of letters and a row of numbers. -Says move me up to L7.
Laura: I can't use inverted controls.
Sam: I only use inverted.
Laura: Really?
Taliesin: Isn't that a great idea?
Matt: Destroyed.
Taliesin: That was amazing.
Matt: This egg has one crack in the side there. Okay.
Laura: Did you just mark on your cool eggs?
Travis: He's using dry erase.
Matt: Wet erase and, you know. It's fun.
Taliesin: It's either that or lick them.
Sam: How many more times are we gonna play with dragon eggs in a year?
Travis: Did you have us on tiny plastic eggs?
Matt: Yeah, so I ordered way too many. I put a bunch in my cart to make sure that I-- I didn't know which one to get and then forgot about it, came back and was like, "Oh shit, I got to order that." Ended up buying like three bags full.
Taliesin: What am I gonna do with all these eggs?
Matt: We'll have egg plastic giveaways. That ends your turn, Vax? Alright. At the end of your turn, Vax, you feel the effect of the haste potion dissipate and your body, all of a sudden, goes from this hyperactive, very familiar mode to extremely lethargic and you find yourself having to fight to catch your breath. So, you can't take any actions next turn. -Can't do anything.
Laura: Oh, it's the potion.
Matt: It's the potion, it's not the boots.
Liam: The boots, right.
Matt: Kima is trying to keep up pace with you, Grog. You're still in your large form. How long's that last for?
Travis: Let me check. Enlarge: 10 minutes.
Matt: Yeah, alright, so you're like bounding through. Kima's falling behind. As you guys both enter, and continue past you hear the explosions in the distance and all of a sudden, the rolling of smoke and ash rushes past you. The smell doesn't bother you cause you've had the smell of burning beard hair most of this close to your nose. What was once your great bush beard is a little tighter to your face now.
Travis: What? You've taken a few dragon fire breaths to the face. The fact that you have any hair is by the grace of your ancestral history. That Dwarven belt you have.
Travis: I know, that's why it's so precious.
Matt: But are you just going full sprint to catch up with everybody?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Alright.
Travis: I'll just roll it. I still have Pike with me, right?
Matt: Pike is coming with you, yeah. 'Cause you picked her up. so you're just running with Pike. Kima's just like, "Damn it!" Left in the ash. You, while you were behind, you, with your full speed, being faster than everybody else in this group, you almost catch up entirely to Percy and Gilmore and pretty much on their initiative count going forward, or at least of the arrival count in the next round. That finishes your go. Let's see. ♪ You were after Vax, right?
Travis: Yes, no, no, I was right before Vax.
Matt: Right, so I got a little out of order, sorry, my apologies. Alright, so anyway, it wouldn't have made a difference. So Kima goes for a run. Pike. Is Pike doing anything on your back?
Laura: Yes. Pike's gonna heal you.
Travis: Who?
Laura: You.
Travis: Me?
Sam: Ran away.
Laura: Yeah, she's--
Liam: Oh, wait, she's with him.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: He's carrying her.
Liam: Nice.
Travis: I got a little backpack.
Marisha: I was just gonna say, is she Yoda-ing you?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Is it like a Yoda situation, that's awesome.
Travis: The force. That was terrible.
Matt: That was pretty awful, actually. (talking over each other)
Sam: Hi, I'm Yoda.
Travis: I think that's his brother, Carl.
Laura: She's gonna cast Cure Wounds at third level on him.
Taliesin: That Seagulls song is so great.
Laura: So, that's three d8's.
Marisha: One of the best things they've done in a while.
Taliesin: One of the best things they've done in a long while.
Laura: Ooh, that's pretty good. Sixteen plus her page, her modifier. What is-- oh, that's--
Travis: Wisdom?
Laura: That's my page.
Liam: Clerics are--
Matt: Wisdom, wisdom. Five, so add five to that.
Laura: Plus five, 18. -Twenty-one.
Matt: There you go.
Travis: Thanks, Pike.
Laura: "Oh, you're welcome, Grog."
Liam: You know.
Laura: Well, you know.
Matt: Scanlan.
Sam: I will run... my 25 feet, and then pop a potion. Just a normal potion of healing 'cause that's all I got.
Matt: So, that's a 1d-- 2d4 plus two.
Sam: Okay. Ooh. 2d4 plus two?
Matt: Yep.
Sam: Five.
Matt: You heal five hit points.
Sam: Great, I'm up to 70.
Matt: Are you-- are you doing anything else on your turn? Are you dashing?
Sam: Can I use my action to dash?
Matt: Yes, your action to move again, essentially.
Sam: Okay. I will do such a thing cause I don't even know. I'm just following people and--
Matt: Yeah, you're a little bit behind and you're pretty much-- Grog has caught up to you, and you guys are just behind Gilmore and Percy at this point.
Sam: Okay, I'm in front of Grog still?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Damn. (laughing)
Matt: Well, he was running while you-- (breathing heavily)
Sam: Objects in the mirror are gigantic.
Matt: Okay, at the end of your turn--
Sam: I die. ♪
Matt: Vax. You, as you fly over with your wings in the air, looking down at the egg. You feel this sudden warm wind pass through you.
Laura: What is that?
Marisha: Fuck, is that her?
Matt: You don't quite-- it seems sourceless, but it just seems to fill you and leave.
Laura: Does it feel good when it happens or does it feel like--
Matt: It's just different. It's already a hot, like you're all sweating in here, so the fact that you feel something, like, warm briefly comparatively to the temperature around you is what catches your attention. It doesn't hurt or damage you, but it just seems strange.
Taliesin: I don't like any of this.
Marisha: I don't like any of it.
Sam: It's menopause. (laughing)
Laura: It's natural.
Liam: You ruined the surprise.
Travis: I cast Menopause on you.
Liam: I'll pretend like I suffer it myself.
Matt: Okay, good.
Travis: You bastard.
Matt: Percival, we're up at the top of the initiative.
Taliesin: I'm running my way in there.
Matt: Alright. So... Alrighty. Percival, at a full run. If you go full run, you'll manage to get just barely inside the cavern about there.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: Right there.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Matt: So, that'll be your turn. There's still a bonus action if you have any use for it, so.
Taliesin: I don't really have-- Mostly I just want to use my bonus action to take in everything and look around and have a-- have a good, good serious look. In fact, I'll even take a perception roll if I can have one.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: Okay.
Sam: Just a good sit and think.
Taliesin: Let's get-- okay, no never mind. That's pretty good. Wow, it has been a while. -Twenty-five.
Matt: Twenty-five. Glancing around, you see a fire elemental that briefly startles you as you kind of whip around in that direction, but you recognize--
Marisha: And like, it's got antlers, and I'm like... (grunts)
Taliesin: I love Hannibal too, it's great. Okay. Eggs, dust.
Matt: Yeah, you see eggs. One is destroyed and just leaking out and like a series of boulders and what looks like some sort of a large, concave impression on the top. There are eggs scattered throughout the area. There's a giant storm cloud gathering in the roof of the cavern, and there is the large pool of lava with the small pool over there. You see occasional glimmers of what look like coin in the distance.
Taliesin: Can you put me, like, on the wall just cause I don't think I'd be-- I was still spider crawling so even on top of the little wall thing, if you want.
Matt: Sure, I'll put you there. Sure, why not, Percy?
Taliesin: Thank you.
Matt: You're welcome.
Taliesin: That makes me happy.
Liam: How high is it to these holes in the ceiling from--
Matt: I'd say it's about 60, 70 feet up?
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: Cool, cool.
Matt: Yeah, the whole cavern's kind of domed like this. Alrighty, then, that's Percy's turn. Another lair action's going to transpire.
Sam: Oh. This one's a good one. This one heals everybody.
Matt: Yeah. There is a fissure that erupts over in this side of the room. The ground kind of cracks open and this-- You've seen it happen once. A plume of poisonous gas fills this space here.
Laura: It's okay, we're immune to poison.
Matt: Let's see. I need-- I need you, Vex, to make a constitution saving throw.
Laura: Even I'm immune to poison? Oh, no.
Marisha: Really? Even with Hero's Feast?
Sam: Oh, no.
Marisha: Oh, shit.
Laura: I got plus two for the ring. So, 11.
Sam: Eleven.
Matt: Okay, good, I'll keep that in mind.
Taliesin: That's a number.
Matt: Okay. It is now...
Travis: What does that mean? What does it mean?
Laura: Slowly my skin starts to melt off my body.
Matt: Yeah, you just-- the cloud kind of fills the area and you start coughing, that's it. It hasn't gone your turn yet, so, it is now Raishan's turn. Legendary actions are restored.
Taliesin: I hate all of this. Oh, good, I was worried about her legendary actions. ♪
Marisha: Are you being facetious?
Taliesin: I don't know what that means.
Laura: Who's turn is it right now? -It's Raishan's?
Matt: It's Raishan's turn. Deciding what to do. Okay.
Taliesin: I don't know the meaning of the word.
Matt: Um...
Sam: This is fun. Just good, clean fun.
Matt: Percival.
Sam: Oh.
Matt: As you're running along the wall, and you glance in the vicinity, you see the cloud of poison kind of burst from the ground and you're just out of the range of it. I'm sorry, it's just within your range from where the--
Taliesin: I'm wearing my mask.
Matt: Yeah, you have your mask on.
Taliesin: I don't know if it actually helps, but there we are.
Travis: You look fabulous.
Matt: So, as you're standing kind of amongst this-- this fume, you see this within this, this cloud, a kind of strange burst of very, very faint light in your area and you feel, even in this heated room, a sudden surge of heat within your kind of torso region and then it fades.
Laura: What does it mean?! It's freaking me the fuck out.
Travis: She's blazing us, ya'll. She's lighting us up.
Laura: What if it's like--
Travis: Doesn't Hunter's Mark feel like something sometimes?
Laura: Oh my God, that's right. What if she's like marking us for death or something?
Matt: You now can faintly hear what sounds like... There are footsteps moving through the tunnels, but you're unable in the current chaos and the obscured vision to see where it's happening but there is movement happening above you throughout the cavern.
Taliesin: My save versus magic would not help with this at all. Cabal's Ruin would not help with this. Okay, just check.
Matt: Okay. That ends Raishan's turn. That's gonna bring us to Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay. Really unsure of what's going on, so I'm just going to...
Travis: Laser pointer right here.
Laura: Laser pointer.
Marisha: Thank you. I'm gonna go to that egg right here that Vax was wailing on.
Matt: Yep.
Marisha: And try and finish it off.
Matt: Okay, you move up and as you get to the edge of it, you can see now the light that your body's giving off. So, the fire elemental is glinting off of piles of gold and platinum that are kind of gathered around the egg. About a third of it is still submerged in volcanic rock and has been placed here for quite some time.
Laura: Don't let me die, I need to loot.
Matt: You can see the crack in the exterior of the egg and the kind of thick purplish amniotic fluid that is slowly dribbling down like a-- like a slow moving molasses or sap from the wound left behind by Vax.
Marisha: I'm gonna do two slam attacks.
Matt: Go for it.
Marisha: Multi attack. Uh, wait. Those were both nine's. Which is-- so 15 total. -To hit?
Matt: Fifteen to hit? It does hit, yes.
Marisha: Okay, and that is--
Matt: Only because he pre-damaged it to that point. You're basically attacking through the shell of the egg. Removed a portion of its armor, so otherwise--
Taliesin: You're punching a dragon fetus right now.
Marisha: I am totally punching a dragon--
Taliesin: That's like so eggs benedict.
Marisha: Plus six, so that's a ten. Fourteen, eighteen damage.
Matt: Okay. So, you plunge your flaming fist into the fluid. You hear it immediately sizzle as your fist goes into it. You punch something dense on the inside. (groaning)
Laura: Oh, you punched a baby dragon.
Liam: Good.
Laura: "Good."
Marisha: Okay, that's my turn.
Laura: In the head.
Matt: You did both of those slam attacks?
Marisha: Those were both-- those my attacks.
Matt: You rolled a 15 and a--
Marisha: I rolled two nine's and I have a plus six.
Matt: Oh!
Marisha: I rolled both of 'em twice.
Matt: Oh, oh, so you rolled 15 both times.
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: Got you. Then how much damage did you total?
Marisha: Eighteen.
Matt: Eighteen from both attacks?
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: Okay, cool. Alright, so, with both slams, the first fist goes in and slams and hits something. The second time you reach in and slamming, you grab it and pull out, as you kind of yank out of the egg just a little bit, you see what looks like the snout of a very tiny Thordak essentially. But whereas the red dragon you saw Thordak, that was like partially volcanic, crystalline with the burning eyes, this creature is seemingly made from pure primordial fire and rock. This is a whole new form of dragon.
Marisha: He made them clones.
Laura: What if he made-- what if it's one for every member of the Conclave?
Marisha: How many are there?
Laura: There's five eggs, but one is crushed and that would be Raishan and there would be nothing in it.
Sam: What?
Marisha: Wait, are we sure there was nothing in it?
Laura: I don't know.
Marisha: Do you want to go check and see if there was something in it?
Travis: Covered in rock, we can't see.
Marisha: Are there five-- there are five eggs?
Sam: Or he was making their own basketball team.
Matt: There are five eggs that you can see currently.
Liam: And they're all red, they're all red.
Matt: They're all red, yes.
Laura: Okay, well, they're all red. Maybe they're all Thordak's.
Marisha: They're little clones?
Taliesin: If they're clones, maybe it's literally five new breeds of dragon.
Laura: Oh my God.
Travis: Only one way to find out.
Marisha: Yeah, only one way to find out. -Let's bust open another one.
Laura: Is it still alive?
Taliesin: What do you call the little chocolate eggs?
Laura: Is it alive?
Marisha: Is it alive or did I kind of kill it by--
Matt: You kind of killed it. It's currently limp in your grasp.
Sam: Hey, you killed a dragon.
Laura: Good job.
Marisha: "I did it! I got one!"
Matt: Keyleth, the dragon snapper.
Taliesin: This is the like the Westworld version of killing a dragon.
Sam: How do you want to do this? Sunny side up. (laughing)
Taliesin: Benedict.
Matt: Perfect. You still have some movement, Keyleth, if you want to move still.
Marisha: I do, don't I. I want to start heading towards Vax.
Matt: Towards Vax this way, okay. What's your movement in fire elemental form?
Marisha: Fifty feet.
Matt: Fifty feet? You get about there, however, unaffected by fire and--
Marisha: And I'm, like, hovering.
Matt: You're comfortable in this.
Marisha: It's like a spa.
Matt: Kinda yeah. -It's tingly.
Marisha: It's like a hot spring.
Matt: It's perfect. Alright, that ends your turn. Gilmore, just at a full run gets up to the side here, and is kind of flanking. He enters the space, pushes up against the wall and just kind of surveys the territory. He looks spooked but also kind of in that, "Well, we're here" type mentality. Looks about the room and goes, "Everyone all right? Please tell me everyone's all right." (coughing) (whimpering) "Great." That ends Gilmore's turn as he just arrives. Grog. (roars) You just come sprinting in.
Travis: Can I smack Shaun's ass as I go by? Going, "Come on, Shaun."
Matt: Sure.
Liam: Shaun breaks in half.
Matt: You aren't stealthy, and as you run by, Shaun sees you about to swing and goes like, "Fine." Whack! Might have dislocated his hip. He's like... (strained laugh) "I'll charge you later."
Laura: That's gonna be a bruise on the ass for sure.
Matt: You get about there and you are-- Pike is technically on your space, kind of clutching to your shoulders. We'll say back here. Little Yoda backpack.
Travis: Do I get any additional movement or am I just here now?
Matt: You are a little bit behind everybody. You've just now caught up to everybody, and that's-- Just your full double run and you just arrived at the edge of the map.
Travis: "I'm here. Let the piñatas begin."
Sam: "Okay, what's a piñata?"
Travis: "I don't know, I thought it was a celebration. -Is it not?"
Marisha: You should ask Sam.
Sam: Hola, me llamo Sam Riegel.
Marisha: Yeah, there you go.
Taliesin: ¿Donde está la biblioteca?
Matt: Alright, that'll bring us to Vex's turn.
Laura: Oh, okay, alright.
Matt: At the top of your turn, the poison has filled your lungs and while you suffer no damage, you are incapacitated. You are just in a coughing fit, almost falling off of your broom. Like sliding off to the side and just... (coughing) And you just can't do anything.
Laura: I can't do anything?
Matt: Nope.
Laura: It was a whole fucking turn?
Matt: Yep.
Laura: Gone.
Marisha: So, both the twins have no turns.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: The poison has completely filled you to the point where you're seizing. You feel the muscles tightening up, and--
Laura: It's not hurting me--
Matt: It's not hurting you, but you're unable to do anything.
Travis: Sulfurous gas. It wrecks your shit.
Liam: Welcome to Hot Pepper Gaming.
Laura: That's good, because you know what? I didn't have anything planned and it would have been a cluster fuck like last time, so fuck it.
Matt: Vax. You currently are just kinda like... (gasping) Taking a breath, your vision kind of blurs for a moment and you can see the double vision trying to align. It comes in to focus and you see Keyleth's fire elemental form kind of gliding across. You see the edge of your sister currently shadowed against this cloud of toxic, sulfurous gas that is spewed up from the ground. You can hear her coughing in the distance. You see a bunch of your allies now beginning to just show up on the outside of the room's kind of lit interior, and it takes you the full round to kind of catch your breath.
Liam: No movement either, yeah?
Matt: Let me double check actually. I'm pretty sure... Let me see here. ♪ Can't move or take actions until next turn, so no. Alright, so that ends the end of Vax's turn. Let's see, at the end of your turn. There is going to be...
Liam: This is fucking-- (indistinct whispering)
Sam: Did I--did I get a turn? No, I did mine already.
Matt: Yeah, we're gonna get to yours.
Liam: I'm still in the same position 15 feet up that I was.
Matt: You are, yes. Yeah, your wings are just like... Grog, you see this kind of faint glimmer of energy around you and you instinctually kind of like... (grunts) (growls) But no temperature change. Nothing seems to happen.
Travis: Do I smell anything?
Matt: You smell sweaty gnome on metal armor.
Laura: "Sorry."
Travis: "Honestly, really? I mean, come on."
Liam: "I'm just a little nervous is all."
Travis: "Did you eat mustard pretzels before this, my god?"
Liam: "Maybe."
Laura: "You know how they make me calm."
Travis: Calm?
Sam: Double Ashley is the best Ashley.
Matt: Kima's running, desperately trying to catch up. But she's not quite in the battlefield yet. It's Pike's go.
Liam: Pike, Pike, it's your turn.
Laura: Okay, okay.
Liam: Yeah, let's buff everybody.
Laura: Yeah, so she's gonna cast-- what she should do mass--
Marisha: Is there anything that could help with the stuff that has been magically cast on us?
Taliesin: We don't actually know what's been done.
Laura: Oh, on everybody and it's 30 feet. How far-- Can she move up and get-- How many people can she get in a 30 foot cone?
Matt: A 30 foot cone?
Laura: A 30 foot radius.
Matt: From where she is, it's six squares.
Liam: But she can move forward.
Matt: She can move 25 squares right now. She's been on Grog's back. She can kind of like leap off and--
Liam: But she could get closer to--to Vex, right?
Laura: Vex and Percy and Grog?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: She's right here, she can move this way or this way or wherever you want.
Laura: Let's-- okay.
Marisha: Here, guys.
Travis: Here's a pointer.
Marisha: Laser pointer.
Liam: If she gets near Vex, then she can get Grog, Gilmore, Percy.
Laura: Maybe like in that area?
Liam: Yeah, yeah.
Laura: Or like, no.
Liam: Closer to Percy.
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: This-- she'll just be on the outskirts of getting Percy and can get all the rest of you guys.
Liam: Keyleth as well?
Taliesin: She doesn't really need it.
Liam: Why not?
Matt: She can just catch Keyleth.
Laura: Yeah, sweet, that's great. Then she casts Beacon of Hope from there.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: What did that do, oh, that was--
Laura: That gives you advantage on wisdom saving throws, death saving throws, regains max number of hit points for healing.
Matt: Or it would, possibly.
Sam: Oh, shit. There's interferon.
Liam: Gilmore stabs Vax.
Laura: I'm hitting him with the laser.
Sam: Don't blind our DM.
Taliesin: I can't see the die, I'm gonna assume it was an natural 20.
Matt: I'd roll again. There we go, that's we're looking for. Okay. It's a natural 20, so yeah. There is a burst of greenish blue arcane energy that just kind of... around Pike as she tries to cast the spell. The spell fizzles.
Marisha: She got counter spelled.
Laura: Oh! I hate her!
Travis: We're in a no magic zone.
Laura: No, it's just--
Sam: No magic works here. Don't even try.
Laura: Alright.
Travis: Just ruins everything I was gonna do.
Laura: Great.
Taliesin: It's okay, she burned a counterspell.
Laura: Great.
Matt: Scanlan, your turn.
Sam: I move as far as I can.
Matt: You...
Sam: Did I make it in?
Matt: Running up, you're like just on the outskirts. You get caught up right about there in the center of the room. That's as far as you can get.
Sam: Alright. Can I yell out?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: "Where's Raishan?"
Laura: (coughing)
Liam: "Ceiling."
Travis: "I just got here."
Liam: "She's in the fucking ceiling, man."
Sam: "She's in the ceiling?"
Liam: "Yeah."
Laura: (coughing)
Liam: I'm sorry  Alien. Ceiling!
Marisha: They're in the walls. The goddamn walls.
Matt: It would have taken you moving action to get there. You have a bonus if you want to take it.
Sam: Bonus? Bonus, I will-- shit.
Taliesin: You'll shit?
Sam: Bonus.
Liam: True to form.
Sam: No, I'll heal myself again. I'll do a second level.
Matt: Healing Word?
Sam: Healing Word.
Matt: Go for it.
Sam: So that's 2d4 plus--
Matt: 2d4 plus six, yeah.
Marisha: Oh, yay.
Sam: Twelve, okay.
Marisha: That's better, that's good. Good job. Good job.
Sam: Gerd jerb.
Taliesin: Gerd jerb.
Sam: Great, I'll take it. Back up to something.
Matt: Perfect. Let's see here. That ends Scanlan's turn. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Alright, I'm gonna use Animus and I'm gonna take some potshots at that egg that's on the other side of Grog.
Matt: Over here?
Taliesin: Yeah. Is that one of the dead one or is that the--
Matt: That was the one that Keyleth just punched.
Taliesin: That you just punched through?
Marisha: Uh-huh.
Taliesin: Okay, in that case, I'm gonna keep--
Matt: You see no other eggs where you currently are.
Matt: Except the one that's right over here. You could technically fire at the one that's across the way.
Taliesin: I'm gonna actually start walking along the wall. This way as far as I can go.
Liam: Oh, he's sticking to it, yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: That's cool.
Laura: Hey, look, an egg.
Taliesin: And I know, like, I'm too close to shoot at that egg, but I can shoot at--
Marisha: It's like an Easter egg hunt.
Laura: But you're above it. Aren't you high on the wall?
Taliesin: Technically, I am far away enough from it that I shouldn't--
Matt: Do you want to go further on here or on this alcove here?
Taliesin: Further like-- like this direction. I want to head this way.
Matt: Okay, so you're moving across the wall. You end at about there at full movement.
Taliesin: Okay, and I'm too close to the egg to get a clean shot at it right now, right?
Matt: Well, I mean--
Taliesin: I've got some height, so.
Matt: Yeah, you could--
Taliesin: I'm using a one-handed, so. I'm gonna fire with Animus. I'm gonna take three pot shots at it with Sharpshooter. Shot number one. Yay, that could have been terrible. -26.
Matt: 26 hits.
Taliesin: Should I just roll all three and then do damage?
Matt: Sure.
Taliesin: Okay. 26, um, 14.
Matt: Fourteen does not hit.
Taliesin: That's fine.
Marisha: Oh, man. ♪
Taliesin: And 16.
Matt: Sixteen does not hit.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm firing really terribly, but that's okay.
Liam: Hanging off a wall.
Taliesin: Hanging off a wall, this is new. Let me get my dice. That's alright. Twenty-three points of damage plus four psychic damage.
Matt: Okay. Alright, so, first shot. It pierces through and actually cracks part of the egg. You can see it's almost like a spider spiral where the egg interior cracks inward. It pierces and a little bit of dark liquid begins to pool out of it. That's as much as you make as the next two shots seem to ricochet off of its hard shell.
Taliesin: Alright, that's my-- Yeah, I'm just gonna use my bonus to reload and take some more shots.
Travis: ♪ Dancing on the ceiling ♪ ♪ Oh, what a feeling ♪♪
Sam: Best music video.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: It's like a piñata. ¿No sé?
Matt: Okay. Suddenly, the entire lair begins to shake.
Travis: Shit.
Taliesin: Goddammit.
Matt: Like this tremor begins to emanate from the ceiling portion of this. Pieces of rock begin to... Fall from the ceiling. I need... The guys who are flying, so, Keyleth, Vax and Vex, don't worry about this. Everyone else, I need you to make a dexterity saving throw.
Sam: Even me, I'm barely in the room?
Matt: It's a big radius.
Sam: I got one foot out. What is it dex--?
Matt: Dexterity.
Taliesin: That's better.
Travis: Ten.
Sam: Seventeen.
Taliesin: Fifteen.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Five.
Matt: Five, okay. -Pike...
Laura: Oh, I'm sorry.
Travis: Grog both lose your footing and plummet backward. Gilmore rolls a natural 20, he's fine.
Laura: Hey!
Marisha: Hey!
Matt: "Oh ho. Great dodger, since I was 12." Yeah, Percy, you mange to just barely hold on without losing your the--
Taliesin: Thankfully my spider sense tingled.
Matt: Oh!
Marisha: Oh!
Matt: I almost want you to just go home for that.
Taliesin: Now I'm gonna fall.
Travis: A whole bunch of cheese here.
Matt: Yep. Okay. That ends the lair action.
Laura: Next turn with disadvantage. (laughing)
Matt: It is now Raishan's turn.
Laura: Oh, that was a lair action?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Oh, Jesus.
Travis: We should just call that Raishan's turn.
Matt: Nah. You watch as through the cloud of lightning that's kind of swirling, a small dragon-like form just pierces through momentarily. It's still see-through. You can see the rest of the swirling storm around it, but it's enough of that Predator-like appearance, where it just shapes and shimmies, or shimmers through the vicinity. It shimmies through. As it does, you watch this claw kind of lift up as this low echoing voice... (whispering in foreign language)
Laura: This is all of us with the light. All of us with the heat.
Taliesin: Okay, what is this?
Laura: It's gonna do something, I know it.
Taliesin: We're-- we're all--
Matt: Okay, 30 foot cubes.
Taliesin: We're all just gonna turn inside out and that'll be the end.
Travis: We'll all turn into chickens.
Taliesin: It's gonna be like John Carpenter's The Thing.
Travis: And then the eggs will turn into big chickens.
Liam: First, we'll all mash together.
Taliesin: And then get separated out into equal piles.
Laura: Oh, geez.
Matt: Yeah, 30 foot cube. I can only get-- she can only get Vex, Pike and Grog, but I need the three of you to make a constitution saving throw.
Travis: Constitution?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Damn it!
Taliesin: ♪ Constitution ♪ ♪ Come on ♪♪
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: So, that's good. I don't get any bonus though. Twenty-one?
Taliesin: Nice.
Liam: Oh, thank God.
Travis: Twenty-seven.
Matt: Okay, and Pike?
Laura: Oh, oh. You roll for Pike.
Liam: Okay. She gets the meteor. I hope it's good. -It's a one.
Laura: Oh, no!
Matt: Well, Vex and Pike both failed.
Laura: Oh, that's as high as I get without a natural 20, man!
Matt: It's a spell DC of 22, I'm sorry.
Sam: Whoa.
Matt: You and Pike both suffer 57 points of necrotic damage.
Laura: Fucking shit!
Travis: Oh, fuck.
Matt: Grog, you take half as much. So, it'd be 28. Twenty-eight points necrotic damage. Suddenly, you feel the very air itself go gray. The color is taken from your vision and your life force is drawn out of you through Abi-Dalzim's Horrid Wilting.
Sam: Horde wilting?
Matt: Horrid wilting. The air is drawn from your lungs. You feel your skin crack and tighten against your skeleton.
Marisha: Adele Dazeem's--
Matt: Adele Dazeem's Horrid Wilting. (laughing)
Travis: Amazing, yes. Change it, don't ever say it right.
Matt: That's what it is now going forward.
Laura: Man!
Sam: Are you alive?
Laura: No, I'm-- I'm unconscious, so is Pike. -Both of us.
Matt: Oh, shit. Well, Pike is not unconscious. (gasps)
Laura: Pike came back.
Matt: Wait, did her armor get used last battle? -I don't think it did.
Laura: It didn't?
Travis: It got used once, where was it?
Taliesin: Previously, in a previous battle.
Laura: Against?
Taliesin: Fire giant.
Laura: Oh, yeah.
Taliesin: How do I remember this? That's horrifying.
Matt: The fire giant of--
Taliesin: At the battle at the--
Liam: In the fire fort.
Matt: To the fort, yes.
Laura: Oh, at Fort Daxio.
Liam: Yep, yep, yep.
Matt: You are correct.
Laura: Okay, so Pike's alive.
Matt: With how many hit points?
Marisha: Jesus, that was an eighth level necromancy spell.
Laura: No, no, no, she got five hit points.
Matt: So, Pike is at five hit points.
Laura: And are there any eggs within 15 feet of her?
Matt: Nope.
Laura: Is there a Raishan within 15 feet of her?
Matt: Nope.
Laura: Well, then, fuck it.
Matt: But Vex plummets out of the poison cloud off of her broom, slams into the ground and clatters, spinning and falling to the ground not moving.
Laura: Thanks for knocking over the little cube too. I like that added.
Taliesin: Backhanding it, no less.
Travis: Damn.
Matt: Alrighty.
Travis: Are there lasting effects from Adele Nazeem's wilting? Like are we halved or anything?
Matt: From what you know, no.
Laura: "From what you know."
Travis: It just sucks right now is all I know. Everything just sucks.
Sam: Jesus!
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: So, that-- that is gonna end Raishan's turn. The form is still somewhat visible, though, transparent. It took her full movement to even get to that point.
Marisha: And where is she, she still on the ceiling?
Matt: To give you a position, right now... ♪ It's right there.
Sam: Forty, fifty feet up?
Matt: Though transparent. It's 50 feet up.
Travis: Fuck.
Taliesin: Oh, don't do that then.
Laura: Oh, I just remembered.
Taliesin: You left the gas on.
Travis: And she's 40, 40 up?
Matt: Fifty feet up.
Sam: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Matt: So, Keyleth, what are you doing?
Marisha: Okay. I can still see her a little bit.
Sam: This is a dragon fight, guys.
Matt: Yeah, you can barely make out the-- the outline.
Marisha: Okay, so since she's in my cloud, I'm going to kind of like, do one of those sideways arcing lightning strikes. Just... and arc everything right towards that bitch.
Matt: Great, go for it.
Marisha: She just takes damage, right?
Matt: For Call Lightning, no, you have to roll-- No, sorry, a creature has to make a dexterity saving throw. So, what's your DC?
Marisha: Twenty.
Matt: Twenty?
Laura: How many lightnings are heading towards her?
Matt: Nineteen. Total of ten plus nine.
Marisha: Yes!
Travis: Wow!
Matt: That's 4d10.
Marisha: Yes, it is!
Sam: Whoa.
Matt: Lightning damage.
Marisha: Yep, yep! 4d10. -Okay, I rolled that.
Taliesin: You rolled well.
Marisha: I rolled okay. I actually rolled-- did roll real well. You're right, I rolled well. Nine, nine, 18. Plus eight, that is 26 damage.
Matt: Nice. You watch as the form tries to pull itself back into the cloud, the cloud lights up with this crackling reddish pink electrical energy that then turns to a bright burning red as it arcs past and slams into her. You watch the energy arc across the body of Raishan, the dragon. (snarling)
Taliesin: Does she have to make a concentration save?
Matt: She does.
Taliesin: To remain invisible?
Matt: Yeah, she's fine.
Travis: "Yeah, she's fine." Fifty-seven.
Marisha: I still have movement, right?
Matt: You do, yes. Your full movement, you haven't moved yet. You just pulled it down in that one moment.
Marisha: I am going to head towards the egg that got cracked open that's in the center there.
Matt: Over there?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. You can go all the way over to it.
Marisha: Can I do a bonus action to like, examine?
Matt: I mean, you can make a perception check and look at it. If you want to rummage through it, that'll probably take your action.
Marisha: Okay, I'll do just a perception check right now.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Twenty-three.
Matt: Okay, as soon as you rush up and get a glance at it, you can see that a lot of the dark, purplish maroon fluid that filled most of the egg is just coating the outside of the egg's shell and there are a series of rocks and pieces of rubble from the initial meteor swam impact that has just sundered this egg. It's about half the height of the others, it's just all that's been kinda collapsed inward. This egg is ruined.
Taliesin: So, we have two ruined eggs at this point.
Marisha: And no sign of a--
Sam: And one almost ruined.
Marisha: And no sign of a dragon baby?
Matt: Nothing you can see.
Marisha: Alright.
Taliesin: Might be just deep in there and flattened.
Marisha: Flattened, yeah, that's my turn.
Taliesin: Could have just been a bad egg.
Matt: Ending Keyleth's turn, that brings us to Gilmore. Gilmore watching this happen, watching Vex go down. Let's see what he does here. (indistinct muttering)
Marisha: Oh, that's funny.
Taliesin: Like five of them in here. Do something about this.
Matt: Okay, as Raishan's form is up there he goes, (sighs) "Not today, not ever!" And releases his hand like this and you watch as a burst of strangely shifting rippling arcane energy similar to the same ripple that is shrouding Raishan seems to kind of scatter up in that direction. He's going to attempt to...
Marisha: Come on.
Matt: With his successful dispel magic, Raishan-- the form becomes completely visible now. The invisibility has worn off. And is now standing completely visible. As this happens, Raishan... (snarls) "I will enjoy eating the flesh from your bones."
Sam: Oh. Did she say "balls"?
Laura: Yeah, definitely.
Matt: Definitely said balls. No.
Marisha: Dragon delicacy.
Matt: Gilmore is then going to... Gilmore goes from excitement to "Shit."
Travis: Not my balls!
Matt: He's going to-- knowing the tactics that are being used, he's gonna try to spread out form the rest of the group. Over here towards the destroyed egg across the wall. That's going to end Gilmore's turn. This brings us to Grog.
Travis: Uh, can I get up, please?
Matt: You can.
Taliesin: Get on up.
Laura: Get on up!
Travis: Can I see Vex sprawled out?
Matt: You do, yes.
Travis: Yeah, can I run to Vex?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: (humming) I have one really-- what's the really big potion? -Is it the Superior?
Liam: Superior.
Travis: I have one of those. Can I shove it in her gullet?
Matt: You can, it'll take your action to do it.
Laura: Oh. You don't have to Grog, it's okay. I mean--
Travis: Okay, I want you to reroll a character. Here we go. I'm going to take my axe and-- Yeah, I shove it in her mouth.
Matt: Superior, that is 8d4 plus 8.
Travis: Oh, I got to roll it?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Oh, gee-- oh man.
Laura: Wait, 8d4. (indistinct) Whoa, 17.
Travis: Twenty-four.
Liam: Plus eight.
Travis: Thirty-two.
Laura: Thirty-two? That was insane, Grog!
Matt: So with that, your eyes come into focus, Vex, as you feel the clatter of glass against your teeth, the vial being pulled from your mouth. You kind of cough for a second. Come into conscious as Grog, in his giant form, cradling you like a tiny baby in his one giant mitt. Just kind of smiles.
Taliesin: It's like a Terry Gilliam movie.
Laura: "Thanks." (snarls) (laughing) Go rage!
Matt: Alright, don't forget you do have a point of exhaustion, as you've gone-- unless you've continued your rage this whole time, which you can, so never mind.
Travis: Yeah, just rolling through.
Matt: You got that now. You're just like a freak.
Travis: I might have chipped a tooth...
Laura: All good. All good, all good.
Travis: Like Mentos and Coke.
Matt: You're like drink it, drink it. Alright, great, that ends Grog's turn. Vex, you are conscious, prone, but conscious.
Laura: God, okay. Fuck. Can I shoot from my laying down position?
Matt: You can, I'd say your attacks would have disadvantage.
Laura: Okay, then I'm gonna get up on my knee and shoot up. Cause I just wake up and see her right above me, don't I?
Matt: Yep, you do.
Laura: Alright, then I'm gonna try to-- Oh wait, I already used Brambleshot, or at least, I tried to today.
Matt: You did, yeah.
Laura: So, I'm gonna shoot her.
Matt: Do it!
Laura: Can I Hunter's Mark her first, though?
Matt: You certainly can.
Laura: Hey! I don't get sneak attack. Nobody's near her, right?
Matt: That was-- that was great. Gilmore rolled a 19 on the dispel.
Laura: Nineteen?
Matt: Yeah, that was really good.
Laura: Oh, that's what I rolled.
Matt: Oh, did you?
Laura: As well.
Matt: Nice, look at that, you and Gilmore just synchronizing.
Matt: And 19's your total?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Misses.
Laura: Fuckin' A. That one, I hope, 28.
Matt: Hits.
Laura: Okay, so 28 on the second one. Oh God, what's happening?
Marisha: I don't know.
Laura: Sixteen plus three points of lightning.
Taliesin: I'm not gonna play that game, man. Not playing. I'm not playing this game no more. It's not the time.
Matt: Did you include your damage for it being a dragon?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Alright. So now you can see Raishan emerging from one of the volcanic caves. The storm's swirling around her, as she begins to pull back into it, you fire two arrows. One gets lost, the other one-- (snarling) Into the side of her throat.
Laura: Can I move-- can I move...
Matt: You move three squares.
Laura: Can I get on my broom?
Matt: You get onto your broom, yeah.
Laura: Like move a one square away.
Matt: One square?
Laura: Yeah. Away from Grog and Pike, yeah. Like that makes any difference, but--
Matt: Okay, perfect.
Taliesin: It's a start.
Laura: Thanks, Grog.
Travis: (snarls)
Matt: Ends Vex's turn, Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay, just to clarify, so looking at the minis. The back side's to me, but really, her face is poking out of a hole, right?
Matt: Like the front half is.
Liam: Front half of her and she's-- and she's at the roof which is 70 feet up, so maybe her head is down, like, five feet out, ten feet out, something like that?
Matt: Roughly, yeah.
Liam: Alright, I want to, and I'm--I'm back, right? -After...
Matt: You have now-- Yeah, you've regained your composure. However your other potion has now worn off. -You are no longer--
Laura: Invulnerable?
Liam: I want to fly--
Laura: Oh!
Liam: Go ahead.
Laura: My hasted had worn off, right? I just assumed it had, okay.
Liam: So, if I'm 15 feet up and she's, maybe, 65 down, I'm within range for sharpshooter already.
Matt: Technically, yeah.
Liam: So, and-- and last question. When you do-- for duel wielding, action-- bonus action, but you told me once you can reverse that and do bonus action and action. I think.
Matt: The bonus attack is part of your attack action, so it's actually after your--
Liam: Never mind then. I'm gonna fly straight at her face, and I'm gonna shove the Dragon Slayer sword into her mouth and I want to try to sever her fucking tongue out of her mouth.
Sam: Oh!
Laura: Whoa!
Liam: Terrible. Whisper, I'm gonna do the same thing with the bonus action. That is 26.
Matt: Twenty-six to hit, that hits. ♪
Liam: Ten plus four, psychic damage 14.
Matt: Fourteen points of damage. Okay, so you go for the tongue and you get the blade up to the mouth. Suddenly, her looking down and having a very, very wide view of the entire battlefield is very advantageous from her perspective. She sees you out of the corner of her eye, she turns to try and snap at you, and the jaws come down and catch the blade. So, it doesn't go for the tongue, but you use that momentum to glide it up the actual tooth and jam it into the gum. You manage to slam up there and the blood spurts out from the wound and-- (snarls) Rears back and so now you're kind of flying up by her face now.
Liam: I should have like 10 or 15 movement left with 60 for wings, yeah? If I was 15 feet up and she was a little less than 70?
Matt: Fifteen feet up, yes, but you're also coming at an angle, which, you lose distance on that.
Liam: So am I at zero?
Matt: You're pretty much at zero, yeah.
Laura: Ooh, like right in front of her face.
Travis: Just stay there like Tinkerbell.
Liam: Okay. All done.
Matt: That ends your turn.
Travis: You are grounded.
Matt: At the end of your turn, she's going to use another legendary action. To do a tail attack against you. She pulls part of her torso out for a moment, and her tail whips out in your direction to try and slam into you. That is a 19 plus, what is it, 32.
Liam: Don't think that hits actually. So I'll use Uncanny Dodge.
Matt: That's gonna be 24 points of bludgeoning damage reduced to 12, so there you go. Alright, that brings us to Kima's turn. Kima finally arrives.
Marisha: Kima!
Sam: Hey!
Travis: Slow poke!
Matt: "Seriously?" That's her turn.
Travis: That Holy Avenger's real heavy.
Matt: So that brings us to Pike. Actually, no at the end of Kima's turn, let's see here. Raishan's gonna use another legendary action to attempt another tail attack against you, since you're within range. -That is a...
Liam: 10,000.
Matt: Twenty-one to hit.
Liam: Shit, it just hits.
Matt: Just hits? Okay. Seventeen points of bludgeoning damage. Yeah, go and halve that. She's used all of her legendary actions for this round. Okay.
Travis: All legendary-- did you hear that?
Matt: Pike.
Travis: Pike's up.
Laura: Okay. I think we should do... But okay, if she does Flame Strike can she focus it on the ceiling? Or does it have to be on the ground?
Matt: No, it can-- I'd say-- let me pull it up real fast here. It roars down from the Heavens in all locations, so it doesn't come out of the floor, it comes out of the ceiling, so yeah.
Laura: Okay. So, it's her level five spell.
Liam: Okay, aim it at--
Laura: At Raishan? At Raishan's butt, not at Vax.
Matt: Raishan currently, only visible, is about maybe 10 feet or so of-- actually pulling out the tail attack, I'd say about 15 feet. So if she's careful, yeah, she could probably hit Raishan and not hit Vax.
Laura: Pike is always careful.
Travis: So careful.
Laura: She's the carefulest.
Matt: Fair enough.
Laura: Okay. So, wow, that's a really big-- Sixty feet, damn.
Travis: That's good shit.
Laura: So, that's 4d6 plus 4d6 radiant.
Matt: It's gonna be close. Yeah, roughly about 55 feet up on the ceiling. With that 60 foot range, she can just hit Raishan with the column, so yeah.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: So that is 8d6 damage.
Laura: Okay, wow.
Matt: Go ahead and roll that. Raishan makes a save--
Laura: I roll five and you roll three.
Matt: So a dexterity saving throw.
Laura: Oh, just kidding.
Matt: Twenty-seven, I'm pretty sure that saves.
Laura: No, I want to roll some. I roll, I'll roll three. You roll five. ♪
Liam: Eighteen.
Laura: Thirteen.
Matt: And also makes a concentration check from your attack earlier.
Laura: Thirty-five.
Sam: No.
Laura: No.
Sam: Thirty-one.
Laura: Thirty-one.
Matt: Thirty-one?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: So half that to 15. Fifteen points of damage.
Marisha: Benefit of the doubt.
Matt: Alright, cool, got it.
Laura: Why half?
Taliesin: She made her saving throw.
Travis: At 27.
Matt: Sorry. So, you just barely move out of the way as you watch a familiar gathering of radiant energy up in the ceiling. You see the glimmer in the corner of Raishan's slick eyeballs recessed within the green armor-plated face. of the dragon as all of a sudden-- A great column of fire and radiant energy blasts Raishan in the side of the face.
Laura: And she's gonna back up towards the opening towards the entrance a bit. -Yeah, like right there.
Matt: Right there? That's as far as she can get right there. Cool.
Sam: Does she have a bonus action?
Laura: She's got a bonus action.
Sam: Heal herself?
Marisha: Is it Healing Word?
Laura: Oh, yeah, she can, right? 'Cause she can use a level two or less. So, yeah, she'll do a level-- she doesn't have any level two's left. She'll do a level one Healing Word on herself.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Oh, God, she's at five hit points.
Sam: Yeah, I know.
Taliesin: Not anymore.
Laura: She's--she's Pike though. This is what she would have done.
Taliesin: She's now at--
Laura: I think.
Taliesin: What does the level one Healing Word do?
Sam: It's 1d4 plus five or something like that.
Marisha: It does an additional d4.
Laura: Oh.
Marisha: Right? No, sorry, just one d4.
Laura: One d4 plus five, so yeah, seven.
Taliesin: So, she's at 12 hit points now.
Sam: Double dig!
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: That's better.
Marisha: Double dig!
Taliesin: That's--
Sam: What's that look, Matt?
Travis: Seven points of healing, so yeah.
Matt: Cool, does that end your turn?
Travis: Yep.
Liam: Yep.
Matt: Good, Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Okay. I don't know, man, this looks rough in here. I don't want to be in here. (laughing) I'll move forward and to the left a bit.
Matt: That's about as far as you can go.
Sam: Sorry, to my right. To the right, four to the right. Oh, man. It's a rough fight. But we're winning, right, now, guys? We're winning, we don't need any help, do we?
Laura: (gasps)
Liam: Did you forget?
Laura: I totally forgot!
Marisha: How could you forget? It's like all I've thought about.
Travis: I will cuddle you, I will cuddle.
Laura: I even wrote--
Taliesin: He's not gonna do it until Ashley's dead.
Laura: I wrote a limerick.
Marisha: Ashley is almost--
Sam: You wrote a limerick?
Laura: For you.
Sam: For me? To do what?
Laura: Wait, wait, I forgot I did it. "Have you heard tale of Scanlan, the bold? He won't tell us his age, but he's old. With his blade, he's a slayer, with the ladies, a player, but if he picks up the flute, he's pure gold."
Marisha: Hey! (applause, laughing)
Sam: Alright, so I'm gonna do Lightning Bolt.
Laura: Goddammit! (laughter)
Sam: I will-- I assume that Scanlan feels strange with a brass flute touching his lips, because he's never played one before.
Matt: This is true.
Sam: But does it still come out just as beautiful and pure as always?
Matt: Roll a performance check.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: I'm so nervous, I'm about to cry.
Sam: Thirty.
Marisha: Oh!
Matt: In the midst of this chaos, the rumbling of the room, the sound of the lightning and thunder in the clouds, the falling of rock and soot from the ceiling is drowned out by what sounds like the most beautiful clear flute. It just trills... (whistling)
Sam: ♪ Call the dragon ♪ (all humming) ♪ Call the dragon ♪♪
Matt: You finish the song as you watch the brass glow. It begins to kinda give this-- this weird shine around it that begins to emanate this kind of additional warmth and light from it and then it dulls and the brass goes to a very tarnished dark metal material.
Taliesin: It's Amazon Prime. It's gonna take three days but it's gonna be here.
Sam: I've played better.
Matt: You watch the flute ping in the hallway behind him. -So that's your action.
Sam: Okay. As a bonus, I will-- Boy, everyone's dying, right?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Sam: Pike's near me, so I'll turn and give her a level two Healing Word.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: As well. And I will sing to her: ♪ I've got Mythcarver in my pocket ♪ ♪ Got that sunshine on my feet ♪ ♪ When I dance and prance around you ♪ ♪ You just stop ♪ ♪ Hoo! ♪
Marisha: ♪ Hoo! ♪
Sam: ♪ And I dance so very handsome ♪ ♪ And I sing phenomenally ♪ ♪ There's just something bout that gnome ♪ ♪ That makes me smile ♪ ♪ Woo! ♪
Marisha: ♪ Woo! ♪♪
Matt: Alrighty.
Matt: Pike takes her inspiration die.
Sam: Uh, no, not inspiration, healing, healing. So, wait, I got to roll or she rolls?
Matt: You roll for her.
Sam: Okay, ooh. Oh, boy. (groaning) (laughter)
Sam: Eight.
Matt: She heals eight points.
Sam: She's up to 20!
Taliesin: She can almost drink.
Marisha: She can drink next year.
Matt: Alrighty, ending Scanlan's turn, brings us to the top. Percival, your turn.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to... Yeah, this is fine.
Sam: ♪ Can't stop ♪♪
Taliesin: I'm going to-- this is fine. I'm going to take some shots with Animus at that awful bastard at the top of the cave. First shot, and I'm not making it a sharpshooter shot, I'm just shooting. That's good too. Oh, that's not bad, 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Taliesin: Alright.
Laura: Look at all those pots of gold in the corners.
Taliesin: That's 13 points plus five points of psychic damage.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: And another shot.
Travis: Shot.
Taliesin: And that's, uh, that's-- Oh, that's not bad. That's two points of psychic damage to me.
Matt: Oh, buddy!
Sam: He's already unhinged.
Taliesin: So that's 54. So, that was like thankfully, just an ow! I'm just putting it away. I'm just gonna try and pull-- pull out the big gun and take one last shot while I'm-- while I'm-- well, actually, no, that knocks out my attacks, doesn't it? Cause it's a psychic damage.
Matt: Well, I was gonna say, the psychic damage doesn't negate your attacks.
Taliesin: I don't have time to switch guns. No, cause the psychic damage knocks that out if I recall.
Matt: No, psychic damage doesn't affect the way--
Taliesin: So, do I have time to just try and get one more potshot out or am I--
Matt: Was Bad News prepared?
Taliesin: It was fine, it was working fine.
Matt: It was fine.
Taliesin: Yeah. Nothing's broke, well, now...
Matt: Now it is, yeah.
Taliesin: Now that's broken, okay. So, and now Bad News, here we go.
Liam: Come on, Golden Snitch! Do it!
Taliesin: Natural 20!
Laura: Yes!
Travis: On cue! (cheering)
Taliesin: Thank you, baby. Okay.
Matt: So, that'll hit.
Taliesin: Yeah, let's-- let's take-- Let's take--
Sam: Weird critical things here?
Taliesin: I don't do any weird critical thing other than doing a lot of damage.
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: Although, where's my-- I do have, okay, so-- That does a lot of damage. (talking over each other)
Marisha: Amazing.
Taliesin: Double dice.
Travis: Come on, you deranged--
Liam: Find one thing and do it well.
Taliesin: Not bad, okay, that's-- 31 points of damage.
Matt: Alright.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Matt: Very nice.
Taliesin: Yeah, it's 4d12, plus six, so. And now I'm gonna hide behind that dragon egg.
Matt: Alright, so you move behind the dragon egg right there.
Taliesin: Yep. Oh, and that means I get a grit point back ah-ha! I can actually do a thing, that's good. Okay, alrighty.
Sam: So, things are turning around ever since that limerick.
Liam: Watch this, I'm gonna get turned into pulled pork right now.
Matt: Well, it's the lair actions now. So in this one...
Taliesin: The Earth itself turns against us. (rumbles)
Matt: From beneath your feet, Grog, you feel and you look down just as the rock splits and a spray of-- a tiny geyser of molten rock just sprays outward. You try and move out of the way in time, but sprays across you, Pike, Scanlan and Vex. So I need you guys all to make dexterity saving throws.
Laura: You want to make it for me?
Sam: Natural 20, 25.
Matt: Whoo! That'll do.
Taliesin: There's nothing natural about 25. Purely artificial, you've had work done on that 20.
Sam: This is LA.
Taliesin: This is LA.
Marisha: Lot of LA things right back to back. -It's overwhelming.
Taliesin: Man.
Travis: 21.
Matt: 21? Succeeds.
Laura: Twenty.
Matt: Succeeds, Pike?
Liam: Eleven for Pike.
Matt: Pike does not succeed.
Sam: 20, 25.
Matt: Succeed, alright, so, you guys who all succeeded, you take 12 points of fire damage. Half of you are resistant.
Sam: So six.
Matt: Just six. Pike takes 12 points of fire damage because she's resistant even though she failed her save.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: Oh, that's good. That's good.
Laura: So she's still up.
Sam: She's still alive!
Taliesin: She's still alive.
Sam: Because of me, let's just go on record and say that.
Taliesin: I'll go with that.
Liam: Can you say it in Spanish?
Sam: No, I cannot.
Taliesin: Pike.
Sam: Yo no soy Marinado. Alright, that brings us back to Raishan's turn.
Laura: Oh God, oh God.
Matt: Gets her legendary actions back.
Travis: It's cool, you can just go.
Matt: Given the current circumstance...
Taliesin: No. No.
Matt: Raishan is going to unleash...
Travis: Handshake?
Matt: She's going to unleash a full round of attacks against you as you are right up in her face and stabbed her in the gums and avoided the entirety of her meteor swarm and you also attacked her.
Taliesin: In defense, she had some corn stuck in her--
Laura: Yeah, he really was helping. It'd been there for like--
Matt: And she appreciates that, but the rest of the stuff is still a problem.
Taliesin: I'm trying not to say anything.
Matt: That is 22 to hit with a bite.
Liam: That just hits, Uncanny Dodge.
Sam: Maybe you should remind her that we have a deal. We're supposed to be working together.
Matt: 22, well, yeah, so they all hit.
Sam: What happened to our deal, Raishan?
Liam: The first one is Uncanny and then the rest are--
Matt: Correct, so the bite attack is halved. Which is good. That'll be 22 points of piercing damage and you got the warm tingle earlier, right? You also suffer ten points of poison damage.
Sam: Ten points of poison?
Laura: Even though he's immune to poison?
Matt: He's not immune to poison.
Laura: He's not?
Matt: No.
Liam: Not from that-- so that our Hero's Feast does nothing.
Laura: It was Dispel, she dispelled our Heroes' Feast. That's what that fucking shit was.
Travis: Oh!
Liam: Is that the total--
Matt: That was the bite attack. So that whole attack is halved. The poison damage and the piercing you took is halved. The claw attack...
Sam: There was a shimmering and you didn't feel anything.
Matt: 26 points of piercing damage.
Liam: Vax is falling. (gasps)
Sam: Oh, no.
Matt: And the tail bats you on the way down. You guys watch as the darkened wings of Vax go limp and he just plummets.
Marisha: Oh, boy.
Sam: That's gonna be--
Matt: Roll a d20.
Laura: Oh, God.
Liam: Is this a death save?
Matt: No, this is a trajectory.
Marisha: Oh my God, please don't land in the lava.
Matt: You smack right into the edge, but not into the magma river. You hear the cracking sound of bones breaking upon impact and the wings themselves broken. Feathers falling and burning within the molten rock. The wings slowly fold in and curl like a spider dying and vanish.
Liam: That sucks.
Sam: Forever?
Laura: No, not forever!
Taliesin: He just went unconscious.
Matt: And with that...
Taliesin: Something's gotta be done about that.
Travis: You are Anakin on the riverbed.
Marisha: Totally.
Taliesin: Magma is practically like your arch nemesis to be fair.
Liam: I don't-- I don't know.
Matt: Raishan is going to move. (pieces crash) (shouts)
Matt: Kima, no!
Marisha: Poor Kima!
Sam: Bye. I just got here! (indistinct talking)
Matt: Alrighty. And as she emerges now, after knocking you out of the air, wings fully out, Raishan... (snarling) "You're next." And then swoops over and is now floating over the lava pool over that way. And appears to be preparing for something.
Liam: Have I got any automatic fails in a death save?
Matt: Yes, you did fail a death saving throw from hitting the ground.
Liam: Hitting the ground?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: As she does that, I yell out, "Could you be more specific? Who is next, who? Oh, we didn't see who you were looking at over here. No? Alright, guess we'll find out."
Travis: I was so preoccupied, I missed it.
Matt: That ends Raishan's turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay, so Keyleth, pretty pissed off from seeing her boyfriend spiked from the sky. I'm going to kinda get a few, well, no, I guess I can stay here. Kind of above the lava create a swirling angry lava vortex of lightning and fire and I'm gonna hit her again with lightning.
Matt: Okay. Make her save. Save 12 plus nine that is 21, which does save.
Marisha: Yeah, she saved.
Matt: So takes half damage, so 14 then halved.
Marisha: Okay, not too bad. Twelve, 14 plus seven, 21 total. Half damage.
Matt: Okay, so ten points of lightning damage.
Marisha: Not great.
Matt: Okay, did you want to move or you gonna stay where you are?
Marisha: Um...
Taliesin: You can't heal as a bonus action, can you?
Marisha: No, I can't do anything. Does-- does Vax look like he's about to fall in the lava?
Matt: Vax is approximately one foot from the edge of the river.
Sam: One third my size.
Travis: Is it flat or is it...
Matt: It's slightly domed in.
Marisha: Do you have flame resistance right now? Yeah, you said you're flame resistant.
Taliesin: On the armor.
Marisha: Okay, so I'm gonna use my movement then. I'm gonna be very careful to make sure I touch the armor, the Raven Queen armor and I'm going to see if I can just fire elemental like roll him away from the edge a little bit.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: The armor is set to flame resistance.
Matt: Yes, it is.
Travis: I thought you were saying you were gonna like roll him in the lava.
Marisha: It's been nice. (talking over each other)
Matt: I will say-- I will say the touch of a fire elemental ignites whatever it touches. It's kind of the essence of the element.
Marisha: But he has fire resistance.
Matt: Right, which means he'll take half damage from any fire that you deal. However, being the fact that you are in control of your form you're not trying to hurt something, I would say that you could carefully push him aside and I'll allow you a death saving throw as opposed to just taking straight damage.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: I'm making a--
Liam: I'm rolling an advantage.
Matt: An advantage because of your armor, yeah.
Liam: Twelve, succeed. So, we're good, we're good.
Marisha: We're cool, we're good.
Sam: Here, let me help you. Oh God, I killed him.
Liam: I feel like in another dimension this didn't go so well.
Matt: So you kind of roll him over...
Marisha: That would be the most Keyleth thing to do. I love you so-- oh God, I killed the thing I love.
Sam: Oh my God, George, I hugged the puppy really hard.
Liam: No, no, no!
Marisha: I'm sorry, George.
Matt: You barely move him, you only get him five feet from being so careful. You could have moved him further, but he would have-- been ignited in the process.
Travis: Oh my God.
Taliesin: I got that extension so bad.
Matt: Does that end your turn?
Marisha: I'm gonna then take a few steps back away from him now.
Matt: Okay, back this way, back where you were?
Marisha: Yeah, yes.
Travis: You would have turned into a vestige.
Taliesin: I don't got to pretend I'm (indistinct).
Matt: Okay, that ends your turn?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. At the end of your turn. Raishan is still overhead and casts a spell.
Liam: Duvet, Duvall?
Travis: Duvet.
Matt: Alrighty. You watch as Raishan over on the edge... her front claws begin to form this strange geometric sigil in the middle of the air and each corner of it is a different color. Green, orange, yellow, red, purple, blue. And suddenly this giant burst--
Sam: Can I try to counterspell her?
Matt: What's the range on that?
Sam: 60 feet, am I just there?
Marisha: Come on, Scanlan.
Laura: Oh God, Scanlan.
Travis: What is she casting?
Matt: She's within range!
Laura: Oh, God!
Taliesin: Please, please! Please kill it!
Matt: d20 add six.
Sam: Eighteen.
Matt: You rolled an 18?
Sam: No, I rolled a 12.
Matt: You rolled a 12, that's an 18 total? It is a... Hold on a second.
Taliesin: God, I can't breathe.
Matt: I'm pretty sure...
Sam: I get a plus two for--
Matt: Right, oh, I know. The sigil-- as the burst of colored light begins to spray forward, you watch as it just... (cheering)
Laura: Scanlan! MVP!
Liam: Vax wakes up for two seconds, says, "You da man!" and then lies back down. (laughter)
Matt: Shit. I never get to use Prismatic Spray.
Travis: That was a day ruiner, right? Day ruiner. (talking over each other) There's no chance that was like a healing spray, was it?
Liam: Probably not.
Travis: Like the gesture of surrender?
Liam: It was kind of like rainbows.
Taliesin: It's the angriest Captain Planet-- it's just the worst--
Marisha: Like the most fucked up Care Bear stare.
Matt: Alright, so, as the spell dissipates... Raishan angrily...
Sam: ♪ You got eggs and you gonna lose 'em ♪ ♪ You got eggs ♪♪
Laura: Oh God.
Matt: Alright, so that ends-- that ends Keyleth's turn. That brings us to Gilmore. Now, Gilmore over here is-- what else does he have left in the tank here? He's gonna do a level four Lightning Bolt.
Taliesin: Chromatic spray.
Sam: Chromatic spray could have been many things though.
Taliesin: Yes, but they're all bad. -It's a wheel of death.
Sam: And they're all bad. One of them's like 70 points of...
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Of just-- just goop.
Marisha: Each color is like bad.
Matt: Gilmore is going to...
Taliesin: It's a great way of dealing with people who are-- who are attuned to deal with you. (indistinct talking)
Taliesin: You were looking at that for a while.
Sam: Yeah, I was, it was good. -It looks good.
Taliesin: It's really good. -It's very you too.
Sam: Rainbow colored.
Matt: Sorry.
Laura: Check out those Gilmore t-shirts.
Matt: I know, sorry, I'm checking to make sure he can do this cause this is what he's trying to do.
Liam: Gilmore's wearing one right now.
Sam: Hey, Laura, are those key chains laser etched?
Laura: Why, they are! It's so funny you should ask.
Sam: Wow, what about the--
Laura: So precise.
Sam: Did I say the key chain or the necklace? What about the necklace?
Matt: So, Gilmore-- Gilmore runs up. And just vanishes from his place and instantly blinks up over into this area using his misty step as his bonus action. And looks upward. "How do you like it?" Raises his hand and pulls this way. You watch as this necromantic energy begins to gather around his hands. A familiar spell to you, Keyleth. As you watch the diseased blackened veins up the side of Raishan's body begin to spread and grow momentarily and kind of begin to-- to dig their way into her throat. She begins to pull backward, unfamiliar with this sudden internal pain. Rolls a natural 20 for her save. But regardless, that's still--
Laura: I like how he genuinely looked kind of disappointed though that he rolled a 20.
Travis: I think he's just--
Laura: It made me-- it made me feel great.
Liam: He's a really good actor.
Sam: See, we're not even gonna need the flute guy.
Laura: I hope he shows up. I hope he's not like...
Taliesin: No, a month from now he's gonna show up.
Travis: Attacking like his carry-on?
Sam: He's at TSA right now. "I have nothing else metal on me. I don't-- oh, I'm bronze."
Matt: Seventeen points of necrotic damage to Raishan with the save. That's Gilmore's turn there. That brings us to... Grog.
Travis: Me?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: Your dragon-based humor is way too tight right now.
Travis: Can I run over with Shaun?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Can I attach the Chain of Returning to the axe?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Then, can I swing it really hard and go, "Yeah, catchphrase!" and throw it up. (laughter)
Matt: Yes, you can.
Travis: Good, reckless, please.
Matt: Yes, you may.
Sam: Laura.
Travis: That's a natural 20.
Marisha: Whoo!
Matt: Oh, shit! Alright.
Travis: Oh, and with the brutal critical, I get two additional...
Matt: Yeah, two additional d12's to that, so roll the die first. Plus don't forget you double the necrotic die.
Travis: Yeah, I do double it?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: Yes!
Travis: That's a six, so that's 12. I'm enlarged. Where's the triangle, who took the triangle?
Laura: I don't-- here you go.
Taliesin: You got like valley girl on that. "Who took the triangle?"
Travis: That's 29 and then two additional d12.
Matt: Correct.
Travis: Nine, 38. Ten, 48.
Matt: 48? Okay.
Laura: Did you double those extras? Do you double those dice as well?
Travis: No.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Brutal critical, you get two additional damage die on my roll.
Matt: Okay, so, as you rush up, "Catchphrase!" and throw the axe sideways. It arcs upward and Raishan is currently kind of reeling from the dispel and angrily yelling into the room in draconic. Gets partway into a phrase, just finishing... (roaring) The axe just jams into the side of her collarbone and front torso area and... The axe is still kind of wedged there, are you gonna pull back?
Travis: Yeah, I'll pull it back.
Matt: So go ahead and roll your...
Taliesin: I don't know why you're looking over here for that.
Travis: Yeah, I got it. 23.
Matt: So, yanking the axe, dislodges itself and you catch it. You see it's covered in Raishan blood. As you pull the axe back, you watch as something just, like, a flash of arcane energy around her, and some sort of spell, uncast by her, just seemingly automatically just kind of surrounds her and her flying begins to speed up.
Laura: She got hasted?
Marisha: But how?
Laura: How?
Travis: I didn't know I was this powerful. What the fuck happened?
Laura: How did she get hasted?
Liam: Well, we'll find out.
Laura: What if the brass dragon's helping her?
Taliesin: Or what if the eggs are helping her?
Matt: Yeah, you have maybe 15 more feet.
Taliesin: I don't know, I just like putting things out there.
Travis: Rolling towards that end of the map as far as I go.
Matt: This end, sure.
Laura: That end of the map.
Travis: Can I go that way? Yeah, that's cool. -Cool.
Matt: Great.
Laura: Oh God.
Matt: That puts you at the end of your turn. She's gonna use legendary action. At this point in her kind of, sped up form, she begins to... (chanting) And there's a slight ripple again in the air similar to what Gilmore did towards Raishan early part of the battle. Let me see the...
Taliesin: We're making some bad groupings there, by the way, people.
Matt: Yeah. You feel a kind of a strange warmth and tingling sensation within your body, Scanlan.
Sam: Oh, what, me? But I didn't do anything.
Taliesin: You relieve yourself gently.
Laura: Did you just pee?
Taliesin: I cast Tinkle.
Sam: I don't get to save or anything, it just happens?
Matt: It's not a save, it's against an effect on you and she rolls to-- just like how you roll to overcome her spell's counter spell, she gets to roll to overcome whatever effect is on you with dispel magic.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: So, that's gonna be the last of her legendary actions.
Laura: She just dispelled all of us. Can we bust out a feast right now? -Just like sit down.
Taliesin: We can make eggs benedict. We have the makings for eggs benedict.
Sam: Does that dispel my fire resistance as well?
Matt: No, it only affected the Heroes' Feast.
Sam: Okay. You'll have to explain that sometime.
Matt: Vex, you're up.
Laura: So, giving a potion to somebody is a full action?
Matt: Yes. Cause you have to basically get there, open it, grab them and help them swallow it to have the effect take place. It's a pretty involved action.
Sam: That means we don't have advantage on death saves either. Right, wait.
Laura: Did we ever?
Sam: Yeah, we did.
Laura: Oh, that's from Beacon of Hope. That's gone anyway.
Sam: Is that gone, okay?
Taliesin: Yeah, that got eaten.
Laura: Okay, then I'm gonna fly down to my brother. And I'm gonna cast Cure Wounds on him at fourth level, so that's 4d8.
Sam: 4d8? ♪
Laura: Oh, 19 plus eight, wow, 27.
Sam: Wow.
Liam: Thank you.
Laura: You don't got no wings anymore.
Liam: She dead?
Laura: No.
Liam: Oh, shit.
Laura: Get away from the lava. And then, I'm gonna fly away from the lava. -Up.
Matt: This way?
Travis: Towards Matt.
Laura: Yeah, towards Matt. Up and towards Matt.
Matt: Up and towards me.
Laura: Kind of away from Pike. Actually, let's go, oh God.
Matt: This way?
Laura: Yes, yes, what you just did. That way.
Matt: That's about as far as you can go right there. Okay.
Laura: And I get a bonus. I can do something with a bonus. I'm gonna re-Hunter's Mark her.
Matt: Yeah, cause you--
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Alright, so Hunter's Mark reapplied.
Laura: Oh, wait! I can take a potion for myself as a bonus.
Matt: Yes.
Laura: I'm gonna do that.
Matt: Alright, go for it.
Taliesin: Yeah. -Get it.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Just a regular potion?
Laura: Just a Superior.
Matt: Oh, right.
Laura: That my brother gave me.
Matt: That is an 8d4 plus eight.
Laura: It's a four.
Travis: Easter egg.
Laura: Seventeen plus eight.
Travis: You have one more dice to roll.
Laura: I do?
Travis: Yep.
Laura: Ooh. So, 21 plus eight, so 29.
Matt: Nice.
Sam: You healed yourself that much? Jesus, that's a big potion.
Laura: Yeah that was, I rolled really well.
Taliesin: I may make one for the table.
Laura: I didn't trust that I would roll that well.
Matt: That ends your turn, Vex?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay, so half my movement just to get to standing, right?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: Okay, I'm gonna throw Whisper, Flame tongue. Raishan should be within 60 feet, yeah?
Matt: Uh, yeah.
Liam: Okay. -Seventeen for the first.
Matt: Fails.
Liam: Second is 22.
Matt: Twenty-two just hits.
Travis: That's it, that's Raishan at 22.
Liam: Ten.
Taliesin: 22?
Marisha: She's 22.
Matt: How much damage?
Liam: Ten.
Matt: Ten points damage.
Liam: And I'm going to use my remaining 15 of movement to go diagonally away from Raishan.
Matt: Diagonally away this way?
Liam: Away from-- diagonal.
Matt: Here?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, that's as far as you can get there. Okay. That ends your turn. That brings us to Kima. Let's see. Kima rushes in with Holy Avenger, and looks over at the distant dragon and goes, "Oh, shit. Who's hurting?"
Laura: Everyone.
Sam: I'm fine.
Laura: "I am, I don't want to say anything though, but I kind of am. I feel kind of shitty. I--I feel like shit."
Liam: "Um..."
Laura: "Um..."
Sam: "I'm kind of bleeding from my ears, but, whatever."
Matt: Kima as an action is gonna cast a...
Laura: "I can deal with it. It's no big deal."
Matt: I'm gonna say third level Cure Wounds.
Liam: Matt, my wings are toast, right?
Matt: Yeah. That's 17 points of healing to Pike.
Laura: Okay, thank you.
Matt: I think Kima's just gonna go at a full run. (indistinct talking) Right, that ends Kima's turn. There is a flash of light in the tunnel behind you guys. As a sudden burst of kind of... a whitish orangish energy that briefly halos Kima, Scanlan, and Pike's forms. As you watch, a brass talon... (cheering) A brass talon, that since it was used as the top of our tree, I forgot to bring its base, but he'll be acting there.
Taliesin: It was a beautiful tree.
Laura: Hey, look, he's standing!
Marisha: He's standing.
Taliesin: You've been drinking, brass dragon.
Laura: Oh, J'Mon, you looking good.
Liam: J'Mon!
Laura: J'Mon!
Taliesin: Have you been working out? You look like you've been working out.
Matt: He watches as they arrive and kind of bully their way past the entrance. "I was wondering when you'd call."
Sam: Glad you came!
Travis: Nothing cool, nothing cool with that!
Taliesin: Swipe right, swipe right!
Travis: Sure is glad you're here!
Sam: We're happy to see you?
Travis: No court speak here.
Sam: How-- how was the flight?
Matt: Actually, I broke my platforms, so I'll just have to use my imagination for some of this.
Sam: We need modeling clay, quick!
Taliesin: Fishing wire, we can just string it from the top of the set.
Marisha: Yeah, yeah, just attach it to a string.
Matt: There we go. J'Mon, they kind of stomp their way into the room, stepping over you, Scanlan. Stepping past you, Vax. Nestles in, kind of surveys the territory. "A different color than I was expecting." And releases a blast of fire breath upwards in the direction--
Travis: Smoke 'em if you got 'em. C'mon, J'Mon.
Laura: ♪ J'Mon ♪
Taliesin: ♪ J'Mon ♪♪
Matt: That is a 23. Okay, makes the dex save, so Raishan pulls out of the way with a benefit from the haste spell. However it does still take damage. Half damage from the spell. That's 16d6 damage.
Laura: Wow.
Travis: 16d6. Well, that might actually help.
Liam: Nobody expects the Marquette inquisition.
Matt: That is 58 points fire damage, half of that to 20... 29, whoo, pardon me.
Laura: Did you just burp or did you just--
Matt: I did.
Matt: Twenty nine points of fire damage to Raishan from Devo'ssa's Flame breath. J'Mon Sa Ord, as you know.
Travis: Wow.
Matt: She makes a concentration check. Succeeds.
Travis: Damn it.
Matt: So, the haste remains viable. Okay, that ends J'Mon's turn. Pike is up.
Laura: Okay. Pike...
Marisha: Go on, girl!
Laura: She's gonna cast Mass Healing Word. Can she get the most people in her radius?
Matt: What's the range on it?
Laura: It is a 60 foot radius.
Sam: Radius?
Matt: Yep, that's the biggest radius, it'd be right there. In the center, just under J'Mon's giant brass dragon wing.
Laura: Okay.
Sam: It's not gonna heal Raishan, is it?
Laura: No.
Matt: No.
Laura: Heals only people she wants. It's up to six creatures.
Matt: Up to six creatures, who do you choose?
Laura: Who all's--
Taliesin: Raise your hand if you would-- you would like to be--
Laura: So, that's--
Liam: Grog is within range.
Laura: Grog and her. So, that's Grog, Pike, Vex, Vax, and Percy.
Sam: Well, hey, if you can do six.
Laura: And Scanlan. "Oh, sorry, Scanlan, I didn't see you there."
Sam: "Well, I'm behind a dragon, honey, it's okay."
Laura: Oh, he's gonna dispel this shit.
Taliesin: I don't think she can.
Laura: Okay, she's gonna do this.
Sam: Wait, can she do it on herself as well?
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: Nine.
Sam: Nine-- nine points?
Laura: Yeah. That's a bonus, I know, I know, okay.
Taliesin: Nine is good.
Laura: There's not really anything else right now.
Taliesin: Technically, it's 9 times 6, so you did a lot of healing.
Laura: All of her major spells were used.
Liam: Still in the game.
Taliesin: Nine times six is a lot.
Travis: Nine points, okay.
Taliesin: That brings me up into the 60's.
Sam: Decadent.
Marisha: Just a-- a nice southern California day.
Taliesin: Fifties.
Laura: And then, can she-- does she have any movement left?
Matt: No, that was her full movement to get there. (indistinct talking)
Laura: That's true. She's gonna duck as much as she can under J'Mon.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: For protection. And say, "Oh, you look very nice, thank you." (laughing)
Matt: There you go.
Laura: "Thank you for helping us."
Sam: At this point, I feel like you guys are better at Ashley than she is.
Laura: No, shut up.
Matt: Alrighty.
Taliesin: Cast of thousands it takes to play Ashley.
Matt: Ending Pike's turn, Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Oh, oh, shit, I should have been thinking about what I--
Matt: Yes, you should have.
Sam: Okay. I will-- I will-- I will shoot some stuff at Raishan of it all.
Matt: Do it, what are you doing?
Sam: I'm gonna shoot Lightning Bolt at Raishan. From my dick. (laughter)
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: So, as you begin creating your incantation and thrust your hips forward, J'Mon Sa Ord turns their head beneath the wing in your direction and arcs a brow, surprised.
Sam: Like, yeah, this is happening.
Matt: As the bolt of energy streaks forth from your groin in the direction of the dragon. That is a 15. It's going to use one of Raishan's legendary resistances to resist it. So half damage.
Sam: Okay, fine, whatever.
Travis: "Fine, whatever."
Sam: Okay.
Travis: ♪Feel the heat.♪
Sam: Wow.
Sam: 35 halved.
Matt: 35 halved.
Sam: 17.
Matt: That's a good roll.
Sam: That is a good roll. It was mostly sixes and fives.
Matt: Alrighty. And do you wish to move or you gonna stay where you are?
Sam: Oh. No, I would like to move. I would like to move forward a bit still within the-- the Devo'ssa range.
Matt: Like by Pike and Kima over here?
Sam: Yeah, oh, can I move to the other side of Devo'ssa?
Matt: Yeah, you can move just underneath, running between the legs and get about there.
Sam: And yeah, shoot, is anyone else-- how's Gilmore look?
Matt: Gilmore is standing and seems to be doing alright, but seen a lot struggle from the last battle and is currently about... You can see a little bit of blood dried and curling from one side of the mouth. Hair is mussed up and looks to be a few burn marks across the skin and is kind of a little out of breath, but is standing.
Taliesin: It's the level two Mike Tyson's punch out.
Matt: Yeah. Gilmore's roughly half out.
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: I knew that would break you.
Travis: I love that reference.
Sam: So I will use a Healing Word on Gilmore. Why not? 'Cause I don't want to use any-- I got one more Inspiration, so I'm not gonna use that yet. So, yeah, I will-- I will heal Gilmore.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Oh, yes, sorry, I got to roll. Nine.
Matt: Total nine, great, alrighty. That ends your turn?
Sam: Yes, yes, yes.
Matt: Alright, Percival, you're up.
Travis: Nice job.
Taliesin: Okay, I don't have it marked down that I burned my action surge, but I think I burned my action surge.
Matt: You did, yes.
Taliesin: But I still do have two points of Cabal's Ruin. -If I recall.
Matt: You do, yes.
Taliesin: Okay, just making sure. Alright, so, I'm going to-- from my little vantage point, take a shot with Bad News. See how this goes, and I'm gonna burn a Grit for advantage. Let's do this. ♪ Yeah. I mean, that wasn't fine, but we could do better. Yeah, that's already better.
Travis: Come on.
Taliesin: Thirty points to-- 30 to hit.
Matt: Thirty does hit, yes.
Taliesin: Alright. Let's use these, they're sparkly. Two 12 plus six plus, I'm gonna throw 2d6 worth of electric. 2d4 worth of electric. Learning how to use-- Oh, 1d6, no, never mind, here we go. So, let's add. Empty out Cabal's Ruin. That's awful. ♪ 10 points of damage plus 6 points of lightning damage.
Travis: How's that terrible, that's not terrible.
Taliesin: For me.
Laura: For him.
Matt: You watch as you send the last bit of the charge through the cloak as the energy shoots up your arm into the gun and as you fire, it travels with the bullet and bursts into this kind of weird, reverse shock wave and the energy returns and slams for a second time into Raishan's body.
Taliesin: Nice, I have one more shot. So, I'm gonna take my last shot although there's no more electricity. That's probably not gonna hit. That's 18 to hit, that does not hit.
Matt: It does not.
Taliesin: That does not hit. But at least it doesn't backfire.
Matt: It hits the side of the hide and ricochets off the dragon's skin.
Taliesin: I'm gonna start running. I know you don't have the little plastic thing, but I'm feeling a little clumped over there, so I'm gonna start running up the wall at an angle, so probably three up and three-- three up and three side.
Matt: We'll mark you at 25 feet up on the wall. Just keep that in mind. Okay, ends Percy. Top of this now is another lair action. ♪ (indistinct talking)
Sam: No, he could do that.
Matt: Alright. ♪
Taliesin: It's like watching some very, like, complicated...
Marisha: Like, chess.
Matt: The magma over here begins to bubble and you watch as one of these strange protrusions from the rocky ground begins to bow upward and then crack open as another familiar cloud of gas begins to spill out in this area.
Travis: But you're totally immune.
Matt: Vax, Vex, Scanlan. I need you guys to make constitution saving throws.
Sam: Nope.
Laura: This is just the worst.
Matt: J'Mon.
Laura: ♪ J'Mon ♪♪
Matt: Does make it, yes.
Sam: Four.
Laura: Fourteen.
Liam: Eighteen.
Matt: Okay, you do make it.
Liam: Eighteen.
Matt: Eighteen, yes, the two of you manage to succeed. Pike as well?
Taliesin: Oh, yeah, medicine won't heal it.
Laura: Hold on.
Travis: That's gotta make it.
Liam: Thirteen.
Laura: Fourteen.
Matt: Okay. So, this cloud is still kind of permeating this area. Obscuring it slightly. Ending that now it is Raishan's--
Sam: Wait, what did I do, what happened to me?
Matt: You rolled a four.
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: So, when your turn comes around next...
Sam: I die.
Travis: I'll let you know.
Matt: No, you'll just be coughing and incapacitated. The coughing fit that this poison gas creates is so bad that you can't do anything but hack.
Travis: It is called LA Smog.
Matt: Yes. Now, being Raishan's turn. Still hasted, pardon me. Raishan is going to dart backward... and snatch up this one egg with her claws. Grabs it and kind of carries it up underneath.
Marisha: Bitch cares.
Laura: She does care!
Marisha: She cares!
Laura: Let's kill them eggs.
Taliesin: Care Bear stare!
Sam: Wait, maybe she's just trying to be a good mom.
Taliesin: She's gonna throw it at us.
Marisha: Google Donkey Kong.
Taliesin: She could go all Donkey Kong on us.
Marisha: Yeah, yeah. (indistinct talking)
Laura: (yells)
Matt: So, that's 20 to get there and back to grab that. She kinda swoops down, grabs it. Moves forward ever so slightly this way, and... No, from back here. Is going to release a giant burst of poisonous gas outward, affecting-- Kima shrugs it off, Pike shrugs it off. Grog, you shrug it off cause you resist the dispel that didn't work earlier. Gilmore ate the Feast earlier and is also unaffected. However, I need...
Laura: Gilmore didn't get the Feast.
Matt: That's right, cause you can only have so many people eat from it. Alright, I need Gilmore, Vax, Vex and Scanlan to all make constitution saving throws.
Sam: What about Devo'ssa?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: Wow. That's not happy. Such a pretty die.
Laura: Did you say Pike? Did you say Pike as well?
Matt: Pike didn't get dispelled. So Pike is immune.
Sam: I got a nine, Matthew.
Matt: You got a 9?
Sam: Constitution?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Nine.
Matt: Not you, Percy.
Taliesin: I didn't have to roll. I'm just mocking him.
Matt: Vex?
Laura: Fourteen.
Matt: Okay. You guys and Scanlan all suffer 83 points of poison damage.
Travis: Oh my God!
Marisha: How many?
Matt: Eighty-three.
Laura: Eighty-three.
Matt: Gilmore.
Taliesin: (laughing) Gilmore makes his save roll with a 19 plus three.
Taliesin: So, he gets 40.
Matt: Thanks to your heal earlier, Gilmore is still standing with two hit points.
Laura: Wow.
Sam: That makes two of us, friend. I'm at two hit points as well.
Travis: How y'all doing?
Laura: We're unconscious.
Sam: Did our-- Our bronze brass dragon get hurt at all or no?
Matt: Brass dragon. But it is here in a minute. Rolls a one on its saving throw. Gonna use legendary resistance to make the save. So he only takes-- they only take--
Taliesin: Can you arc lightning?
Matt: 41 points of damage there. Okay. So, as this billows forth...
Laura: Twins go out together.
Matt: So, Vax, he falls unconscious. Vex, you fall unconscious, fall off the broom, hit the ground. Taking four points of bludgeoning damage, you suffer a death saving throw from the impact.
Laura: From like a teeny little ten foot fall?
Matt: 10 foot drop on your head.
Laura: That's fucking stupid.
Matt: It's only a--
Laura: She was sitting stupidly!
Matt: It's only a d6 bludgeoning damage, but when you're unconscious while falling, you now realize the downside of flying all the time.
Laura: Damn it!
Travis: Didn't you put air bags on that thing?
Laura: I did, I have a helmet on. Did you-- I put airbags in the witch's hat.
Taliesin: It's a football helmet.
Travis: That's right, it's magic, it goes...
Sam: Yeah, I forgot to tell you, the witch hat is magic.
Taliesin: Full of balloons.
Matt: As the poisonous breath billows out and everyone's coughing and falling over, you watch the twins fall unconscious, Raishan kind of grins. "You've got a few surprises, I see, but you're not the only ones."
Laura: Oh, no, does she have more surprises?
Travis: I think that's what she meant, yeah.
Laura: I hope that's not--
Taliesin: There's cake and ice cream upstairs.
Sam: "I have more surprises." "Guys, I think she has more surprises."
Travis: That's literally what she just said.
Laura: I just thought maybe the breath was the surprise.
Matt: And then is going to use the rest of her movement to whip over here.
Travis: Damn it, damn it, damn it. Why'd she have to leave? I just wanted to give her a high five.
Taliesin: You need to heal the living hell out of these people.
Laura: Damn it! She's carrying...?
Matt: She's carrying two eggs underneath.
Taliesin: Which means she obviously can't do claw attacks.
Matt: She still has 40 feet of movement.
Laura: That's true.
Matt: And is going to turn back, and flies there.
Travis: Didn't pick up anything else?
Matt: No, she grabbed the two eggs and is positioning. Alright, that ends Raishan's turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Taliesin: Can you heal?
Marisha: I'm wondering if I should drop this and start doing beefier stuff now.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: I think now's the time.
Sam: This has only injured Vax so far, so...
Laura: Me and...
Taliesin: The twins, they're both unconscious.
Sam: Oh, great.
Taliesin: With one death saving throw already failed.
Sam: Great.
Laura: No, just me.
Marisha: Okay, I am going to move from--
Laura: And Pike's like out.
Marisha: Over the lava like this direction.
Sam: She's got some cantrips.
Marisha: Geez, I can't tell.
Matt: Which way?
Marisha: This way, this way. See the laser pointer? No, no, no, I had it. I had it and it went away. -Okay.
Matt: Over here?
Marisha: No, it's-- yeah, over there.
Matt: Over here?
Marisha: Uh-huh. And how far away is Raishan from me now?
Matt: I'd say roughly 30 feet, 35 feet.
Marisha: Okay, move me like one more closer to her.
Matt: There you go.
Marisha: And how close am I from the twins now? I can't see.
Matt: Twins, you're about 30, another 35 feet from them.
Marisha: Okay, let me move five more feet so I can be within 30 feet of the twins.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Okay, now I'm gonna drop my--
Matt: Well, with both twins, you'd have to move there. You drop your form?
Marisha: Drop my form.
Matt: Alright.
Marisha: I hope this is not a terrible idea.
Matt: I'll put you there.
Taliesin: We're at that point.
Marisha: We're at that point. This is Dungeons and Dragons!
Taliesin: This is dungeon and dragons.
Marisha: I'm going to bust out the Spire of Conflux. So I'm gonna bust out the staff and be like, "You bitch." And then aim it. I'm gonna do chain lightning and can I try and hit her and the two eggs and maybe like, since I still have the storm going, like, it just looks cool? (laughing)
Matt: Sure.
Laura: Doesn't it--?
Matt: Raishan saves. The eggs cannot save technically, so go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Don't you get the lightning attacks too? If you're doing chain lightning, you still get the other lightning's that are there?
Marisha: I have to choose to make an action. It's still there, but I can either like do other things or choose to do--
Laura: I understand.
Marisha: Sorry, I don't do the-- 10d8.
Taliesin: Do you need some d8's?
Marisha: I have one, two, three, four, five... I think I'm good, I'll just roll five twice. Oh, God, oh, God. Did she save?
Matt: Yes, she did.
Marisha: But the eggs didn't?
Matt: The eggs did not.
Marisha: Okay, that's not phenomenal. Three, six, nine, ten-- nine, ten, eleven. Plus four is 15 plus... Okay, okay. What'd I say, 15? Twenty-five, 29. Thirty-six total.
Taliesin: Oh, wait, wait, wait.
Marisha: Oh! Oh, and I get to reroll this one. Thirty-six, no, thirty-eight.
Matt: Thirty-eight, okay. That would be 29, no, sorry. No, from 30, 19. Nineteen damage to Raishan and the two eggs-- You watch as the bolt hits, arcs through her, arcs through the eggs. You see the eggs still carrying them, no visual.
Marisha: It didn't do anything to 'em?
Matt: Well, nothing you can see, no.
Marisha: Nothing I can see. Maybe I like microwaved 'em inside. Like nuked 'em. Might have nuked 'em.
Travis: Might have been like Vision and you made 'em super strong.
Marisha: Yeah, or I turned 'em into little Vision dragons. You know, one of the two. Okay, and then for my bonus action, I'm going to do a Healing Word on Vax.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I'm just gonna do it at first level. -Sorry.
Liam: No, hey.
Taliesin: It's back up.
Marisha: Three plus (indistinguishable) so nine total.
Liam: Thank you.
Matt: At the end of your turn, watching you form over, hit her with lightning, hit the eggs and all of a sudden, breath come back to the lungs of Vax on the ground. Raishan, "Not so fast." Still clutching the eggs, her front claws kind of form this small spiral as the air grows surprisingly cold causing this mist to form around the extended ends of her claws. As she puts her arms forth, casting Cone of Cold outward from her.
Laura: I wonder if they're elemental, like, amplifiers.
Marisha: The eggs?
Taliesin: I think, I think maybe they're--
Travis: Just eggs?
Taliesin: No, no, I think she may be on to something.
Matt: That's going to be... I don't know if it's going to hit.
Taliesin: No, no.
Matt: Does not hit Gilmore. However, I need Scanlan...
Sam: Would I be able to counter spell this or-- or am I already in a cloud of smoke and coughing?
Matt: Oh, you can't technically move cause you're doubled over.
Sam: I'm already in the cloud, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: You're in the cloud, but you can be restored. Cause you've been backed up.
Sam: Oh. Backblaze?
Sam: You're slowly becoming me tonight.
Taliesin: Can Gilmore dispel or-- Just throwing that out there. I know you're playing a lot of hands here.
Sam: You're so handsome and charming all of a sudden.
Matt: What's the range on that? Unfortunately, Gilmore's just out of range. 60 foot range.
Taliesin: Goddammit, okay.
Matt: Good looking out though.
Taliesin: I'm trying.
Matt: So that is Kima, Pike, J'Mon, Scanlan, Vax and Vex all making constitution saving throws.
Laura: I'm unconscious.
Matt: So, you take another death save.
Laura: Cool.
Taliesin: Goddammit. We need to fix that.
Laura: I've got one save left.
Taliesin: Please, we got to fix that.
Sam: Did I-- wait. Vax-y poo, did I give you my cold armor? I mean, Vex-y poo.
Laura: Yeah, you did, but it's not attuned.
Sam: You're not even using it?
Matt: And even then, even at half damage, she's unconscious.
Laura: Well, I am, I'm just not getting cold--
Matt: So you're at two death saves on impact. You're unconscious again to zero. -You take...
Sam: I rolled an 11.
Matt: An eleven, yeah. So you take 43 points of cold damage.
Sam: I'm so dead.
Travis: No, no, unconscious.
Matt: Unconscious.
Laura: You're unconscious.
Sam: Negative 41.
Matt: Both roll for Pike.
Laura: It doesn't matter what you're negative.
Travis: Unless it's your total hit points.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Roll for Pike if you could please.
Laura: Well, I wouldn't count it, but yeah, that was-- that was bad. It was better when I--
Taliesin: Well, not anymore.
Laura: What is this, what is this? Constitution, what is this? Five! Cause I suck.
Matt: Pike takes another 43 points of cold damage.
Laura: Pike is unconscious.
Sam: The gnomes are down. Well, at least we got Kima.
Laura: Whoa. The two-- the twins and the gnomes are out.
Sam: Yeah, whoa, we're down four?
Taliesin: We're down four.
Sam: Whoa!
Laura: This is serious, you guys.
Sam: Don't worry, Devo'ssa's here to give one shot of 28 points of damage. Come on, Devo'ssa, do something!
Travis: I would hit the dragon cause it's low enough, but it's on the other side of the map.
Matt: Alrighty, so that's the end of Keyleth's turn. It's now Gilmore's turn.
Travis: Come on, Gilmore.
Laura: Do you have Mass Cure, Gilmore?
Matt: Gilmore does not cure, unfortunately, that's not his specialty.
Travis: What about Razzle Dazzle?
Matt: He's used a lot of his spells. (sighs)
Taliesin: I have nothing.
Travis: Can he cast like--
Sam: Oh, wait! Shit. No, that was poison. He shot-- Raishan shot poison at us, right?
Taliesin: No, cold.
Laura: Cold the last time.
Sam: No, the cold this time. The previous time it was poison.
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Never acid though.
Taliesin: No, never acid.
Matt: Gilmore rushes around J'Mon almost as a defensive stand point, but also kind of taking in the circumstance. Watching this blast of cold air come through. Kind of looks around, seeing everyone on the ground. It's like, "Oh God, oh God." And in a fit of rage and needing to lock this down, just gonna go ahead with what he has left at his disposal to release a... All he can really do is a lightning bolt. Which Raishan rolls a one.
Laura: Oh, good, good.
Matt: Uses legendary resistance to resist it.
Laura: I have to pee so bad, I got to get up.
Sam: How do you want to do this?
Matt: I know. Ten points of lightning damage to Raishan.
Laura: What I'm scared of is that I'm gonna be away from the table when I actually die, but I have to pee.
Matt: Go pee, it's fine.
Laura: Just don't kill me while I'm not at the table, okay, Matt?
Matt: Do my best.
Sam: Hey, when she gets back let's all be crying.
Laura: (offscreen) Don't-- I heard that! (laughter)
Taliesin: You are the worst person. Two seconds longer.
Matt: Grog.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Actually, no, oh, thank you so much.
Taliesin: Oh, yay.
Matt: Thank you, thank you, thank you. Beautiful. They found my base.
Taliesin: Wow, look at all those minis that are flattened. Wake up our healer.
Matt: Look at that. Looks much more majestic when it's up in the air. Oh God. I'm juggling here. Stay on there! Alright, so, at the end of that turn... there's two more legendary actions from Raishan. She has four, she has four. To cast a Melf's Acid Arrow at Gilmore. ♪
Sam: (snickering)
Travis: Wait, where did Gilmore go, I can't see.
Matt: He's underneath.
Sam: No one said D&D was easy, guys. ♪
Matt: Okay, a ranged spell attack. So, yeah, that hits. So that is 4d4 acid damage against-- That's five. Five, ten points of acid damage. Gilmore is now also down.
Sam: Oh!
Travis: Is that five total?
Taliesin: Five down, we have five down.
Matt: As Gilmore runs past the dragon, Raishan just with this almost underhanded, flips her claws out and this one little greenish dart of arcane energy slams into Gilmore's chest. And he just falls to the ground.
Taliesin: We're so fucked.
Matt: Burning into him like alien blood.
Travis: This is some kind of horrible record.
Laura: Gilmore just went unconscious too?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Travis: Sit down.
Laura: Oh, no!
Sam: Kima, Percy, Keyleth. It's up to you.
Matt: Grog, it's your turn.
Sam: Oh, wait, Grog! I forgot Grog.
Travis: Hey!
Taliesin: Is there anything you can do to fix this?
Travis: I have a question.
Matt: Yes.
Travis: So my speed is 50, but I don't know if I ever thought of what my speed is enlarged-ish. It's not double, right? I don't really have a card for it. It doesn't say anything about my speed.
Matt: Wait, for which one, on the--
Laura: If he was enlarged.
Matt: If you're enlarged, no, it doesn't increase your speed at all.
Travis: Yeah, okay.
Matt: You're still 50, you're bigger--
Taliesin: Fuck.
Travis: So, from where I am, if I wanted to head towards you, how far could I get?
Matt: You could get... That far there.
Travis: That does fuck all.
Taliesin: That-- yeah.
Travis: I could throw the axe but Pike's unconscious. -I'm gonna run to Pike.
Sam: Start saving shit.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: And I have the middle potion available.
Laura: The Greater?
Travis: The Greater.
Matt: Alrighty, so you're gonna use your action to administer the Greater healing potion to Pike. Alrighty, go for it.
Sam: To Pike.
Travis: How many-- How many is that, I don't remember.
Laura: That's 4d4.
Matt: Yeah, 4d4 plus four.
Travis: Okay. Four. Four, that's two. Hey, seven and a four is eleven. Fifteen. Fifteen points to Pike.
Matt: Fifteen points to Pike.
Taliesin: And she still has her turn coming up.
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: Oh, okay, okay, that's good.
Laura: But she has basically no spells left.
Sam: She's got no spell slots. Does she have any spell-- higher level spell slots open?
Laura: She's got a fourth level spell.
Taliesin: And then she can burn a fourth to heal somebody at a fourth level. She can heal you at a fourth level because you need healing now.
Matt: That ends your turn, Grog?
Matt: Vex, it's your turn. I need you to make a death saving throw.
Taliesin: Goddammit.
Laura: I could die.
Taliesin: Yep, this could be it.
Sam: This is the last one?
Laura: This is my last death saving throw.
Taliesin: This is it.
Laura: No advantage, no nothing.
Taliesin: Oh God fucking damn it.
Laura: I'm using-- no, I'm not even gonna say it. (groans)
Laura: I failed it.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Laura: Five.
Matt: Five. There, on the banks of the lava flow in Thordak's lair, the breath escapes Vex. Her body going still and unfortunately not cold because of the vicinity of the flames, but Vex has fallen.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: Vax.
Liam: Death save.
Matt: With advantage.
Liam: I made it.
Matt: Made it? That brings us to Kima. ♪
Travis: Fuck. ♪
Sam: Holy shit. ♪
Matt: Kima, who's-- Pike is now conscious, correct? From the potion.
Laura: Pike is conscious with 15 points.
Matt: Kima's panicking watching all this happen and seeing this happen in the distance. Looks to Gilmore, looks to Vax. She kind of frustratingly just throws the sword at her side and reaches down and does a level two Healing Word to Gilmore. That is 12, so Gilmore is back and conscious.
Marisha: As a bonus action, so can she heal someone else?
Matt: Alrighty. That ends Kima's turn is now--
Marisha: Does she happen to do-- that's a bonus action. Can she do it twice?
Matt: That was-- that was not Healing Word, sorry, Cure Wounds.
Taliesin: Goddammit.
Matt: She's going to move, stepping over his body, "Keep it going, friend." Leaps over him. Two, three, four, five. And she kind of runs past, pulling the sword out again, looks up at the dragon and says, "Alright, show us what you can do, buddy. There's a lot riding on this." After Kima is J'Mon. They look down at the running Halfling. "Dire as it may be, that's why we're here." Let's see if he gets his breath back. Nope. They did not get their breath back.
Travis: Shit.
Laura: Just-- bitch-- bitchslap Raishan.
Marisha: Kaiju battle!
Liam: Take your earrings off, come on.
Matt: Rushes up and-- Goes right up into Raishan's space.
Laura: Yes!
Sam: Dragon on dragon.
Laura: He has a base now? When did that happen?
Travis: While you were peeing.
Laura: That's great.
Matt: So, just rushes up into Raishan. You feel the wind kind of blast past as the wings of J'Mon Sa Ord, Devo'ssa, pick them up and they rush around strafing the side of Raishan and unleash a barrage of attacks against her. That will be-- First one is 16, no. Bite misses. Three and a two, really?
Laura: Really?
Travis: No, no, no, no.
Marisha: Come on, man.
Travis: I don't believe it.
Marisha: Come on!
Travis: I don't believe.
Sam: Look at all the notes, look at all the notes.
Travis: I don't believe it!
Matt: Three, two and one. That is ridiculous.
Laura: You know why this happened? Cause you took so long to call--
Sam: Yeah, I know, I know. They got-- they got bored waiting at home and yeah.
Matt: So.
Sam: It's me, it's on me.
Matt: As J'Mon rushes up and unleashes, Raishan, who is slippery at best, and really, really, really creepily deceitful at her worst, dodges to the side, so, she's in the shadows and the cloud of the storm in the air to kind of hide her form as J'Mon reaches out and starts slashing Raishan, who's now has this kind of wild look in her eyes of now mounting victory. From a moment of fear earlier, she manages to avoid the first two strikes and the third one, the tail slaps against the side of Raishan's body. Whack and smacks to no effect.
Travis: Jesus.
Matt: That ends J'Mon's turn. It is now Pike's turn.
Liam: Pike, how close is she to--
Sam: Book!
Taliesin: Book?
Matt: Pike is about 25 feet away.
Liam: She's gonna run up, kneel down, wait, kiss Vex on the forehead, and say, "Not like this, buddy," and cast Revivify for her last spell.
Travis: It is her last.
Matt: Revivify is touch and she's coming up from unconscious prone which means she doesn't have the movement to get there to touch her.
Liam: Pike is unconscious?
Matt: Oh, no, she was-- she was--
Travis: Pike was not unconscious.
Marisha: She was not unconscious, she was up.
Travis: She was up with 15--
Matt: Oh, oh.
Laura: She had 15. -But she was--
Sam: She was lying down.
Laura: She was lying on--
Matt: So, she was prone. She was prone.
Travis: Oh, why didn't I just pick her up?
Matt: No, so she can move. She can't get there.
Laura: That's okay.
Matt: It's a touch spell.
Liam: Who's she near?
Marisha: How much time does Revivify need?
Laura: A minute.
Taliesin: Oh, under a minute. Oh, well, she can make her way--
Laura: She's got Sprinter's Boots on! She just texted.
Matt: Had she used them recently?
Laura: We didn't use them in the last fight because we didn't realize she had 'em.
Matt: The internet will let us know.
Laura: Well, I-- we didn't use 'em in the fight with Thordak.
Liam: She didn't know she had 'em so we didn't use 'em.
Matt: Right, right, so.
Sam: Do you have any other healing spells that can work at a distance?
Liam: She's dead.
Marisha: She's dead. She's gonna do Revivify.
Laura: For Pike, though.
Taliesin: Yeah, like.
Liam: So the Sprinter's Boots do nothing, I mean, I don't know.
Matt: The Sprinter's Boots will let her double her movement for a round.
Liam: So will she get there?
Laura: She's writing in all caps "Sprinter's Boots!" (laughing)
Liam: Alright, so Revivify.
Matt: Alright.
Taliesin: Oh my God.
Matt: Now, this is mid-combat. -For the purposes of this--
Laura: Oh God.
Sam: How long does it take to cast?
Liam: It's instantaneous.
Taliesin: Less than six seconds.
Liam: One action, instantaneous.
Marisha: Yeah, she did lay out less than six seconds, man.
Matt: I understand. So, this-- this is going to be a rapid resurrection skill check.
Laura: Oh God, really? Okay.
Matt: So, but this is only from Pike because it is a singular roll. So.
Laura: Can Ashley roll, do you want to roll Ashley?
Matt: As Pike rushes up, what does Pike utilize to implore Vex's soul to return?
Sam: Liam, you answer. ♪
Liam: My gosh. She grabs a dagger out of Vex's belt and cuts off a lock of her hair and presses it into Vex's hand. "It's not time, it's not time for you. No." ♪
Matt: Go ahead and just roll a d20.
Laura: She's-- oh! Oh, no! Should we read that?
Travis: No.
Matt: A ten? As the glow from the outside of her form that just radiates with the armor itself, centrally focuses itself into her holy symbol and is sent down the arm. Each piece of the plate mail glowing in succession like a series of chained lights as it reaches the fingers, touching the bottom of her fingertips to Vex's torso. The air seems to go dark for a moment around her body before it pulses, and with that, you watch as her jaw moves ever so slightly taking in, once more, the warm air of Thordak's lair.
Marisha: No one else die.
Matt: Pike, want to do anything else? Bonus action?
Liam: Geez, I don't--
Laura: Oh, she should take-- she should take a potion or something.
Travis: Yeah, heal herself please.
Laura: She's got a-- she's got a Greater healing-- Pike has a Greater healing potion that I know of. So she can take it.
Matt: Okay. So that is a 4d4 plus four.
Travis: This sucks!
Taliesin: I'm almost of the thinking that she shouldn't take it just because-- -Well, no, she's got--
Laura: She's got 15 points.
Taliesin: Well, I mean, but anything hits her-- half the things that hit her are gonna even kill that and that's a revive from death.
Laura: That's true.
Marisha: Yeah, but it's on her, right? Yeah, I see what you mean though.
Laura: Should she wait, should she hold it?
Sam: They're in control of her.
Taliesin: Yeah, you do it, you do it, you do it. I'm overthinking this.
Liam: Yeah, we're talking about getting people back up. At this point, not healing cause any hit is lethal. So getting someone on their feet.
Travis: I got some potions cause I never use 'em, but...
Matt: Yeah, you guys have been hording potions for a while. You've been burning through all of them from these two encounters.
Travis: I've got all the ones I've never used.
Liam: Who's on the ground by Grog?
Taliesin: You.
Liam: No, I know I am, but who else is that?
Taliesin: It's Scanlan, Scanlan's on the ground still.
Liam: Is someone up besides me?
Laura: Well, I want-- it's an action if she-- if she gives it to anybody else. She can't, she can only take it as a bonus action for herself.
Travis: Go.
Liam: Go.
Laura: Oh, that's really good though.
Marisha: I wonder how bad Raishan is looking.
Taliesin: He hasn't said the phrase.
Laura: Nineteen.
Matt: Okay, nice. Alright, at the end of Pike's turn, Devo'ssa, J'Mon Sa Ord, is gonna use two legendary actions to attempt a wing attack.
Taliesin: Thank God.
Travis: Come on, come on.
Matt: He is now like just assailing Raishan with their wings. So, Raishan has to make a dexterity saving throw. That is cocked, try again. No, that is a failure. Raishan's gonna use the last legendary resistance to resist that. So instead takes...
Travis: Fuck!
Matt: That's...
Marisha: She's burned through all of her legendary resistance?
Matt: Seven points of bludgeoning damage and is not knocked prone. That would have messed her up. Okay.
Travis: Is not knocked prone?
Matt: No, she is not, she's safe. Okay, that brings us to Scanlan.
Laura: We just gotta get out of here.
Sam: Fail.
Matt: That's a death saving throw off Scanlan. Alrighty, that brings us to the top of the round. Percy, you are in the back of a wall.
Taliesin: I'm taking...
Matt: The curse of the unscathed!
Taliesin: You know, I was gonna take shots at the eggs, but I give up. I'm taking just shots at Raishan.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Taliesin: Come on. Don't be stupid. -That's stupid.
Marisha: Pretty stupid.
Laura: Oh my God, we're all gonna-- I'm not gonna say it. -We're gonna--
Travis: Don't you-- shh!
Laura: We're gonna get through this, you guys. We're all gonna get through this.
Travis: ♪ I gotta get through this ♪ ♪ I gotta get through this ♪ ♪ I gotta get ♪♪
Taliesin: Yeah, so I've got-- that's a-- that's a-- -That's a gun jam.
Marisha: Fuck.
Matt: Really?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Laura: Fuck.
Taliesin: Hold on.
Laura: Oh my God.
Taliesin: That's a bad gun jam. I'm talking bad, they're both bad gun jams. Alright, I've got one weapon left that can just barely make it, so I'm just screaming to the world. Here we go.
Matt: So you're pulling out Retort.
Taliesin: Yeah, Retort is out and that's a 23.
Matt: That hits. Two more attacks on that, right?
Taliesin: Only one more because I took an attack with Bad News.
Matt: That's-- well, Bad News takes an attack to reload.
Taliesin: But-- no, the first shot went--
Matt: Right, but usually, it's action.
Taliesin: Right, so I have two more-- I have two attacks with Retort. -So, that's--
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: That's um, oh, that's nice. Fourteen points of damage.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: And... Oh, that was so mean, that was almost a natural 20. -Twenty-four.
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: Ah, 16 points of damage.
Matt: Nice.
Travis: Nice.
Matt: Let me take some concentration checks on that. Yep and yeah.
Taliesin: And I'm going to reload, and I'm going to start running across the wall away from the fray.
Matt: Around this way?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: So, you get about there.
Taliesin: That far. Getting out of the way.
Matt: Okay. That ends your turn. It is now back to a lair action.
Sam: Great.
Travis: Fuck.
Matt: The ground in the center here quakes and cracks open as a familiar burst of magma-- -Everyone in this vicinity.
Laura: Goddammit.
Matt: I need Vex. Vax, you're--
Liam: Well, I gotta go, I've got one success.
Matt: Right, but you're still unconscious, right?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: So, you just take-- you just lose a death saving throw. As the magma bursts and sprays around, so you take one. I need you to make a dexterity save. -I need Scanlan--
Sam: I lose another death save.
Matt: You lose another.
Laura: You got one left, Scanlan?
Matt: I need Pike to make a dexterity saving throw.
Travis: Me too, right?
Matt: And you too, Grog.
Sam: He's got high dex, right? Right?
Laura: Well, this, you know what?
Matt: Gilmore does not make it.
Travis: That's not bad.
Matt: I'm rolling shit for damage, that's good. Wow.
Sam: What'd you roll, Laurs?
Laura: I rolled an eight for Pike.
Matt: Okay, so--
Laura: And a one for me.
Matt: Okay, ten points of fire damage to each of you halved, so you both take five.
Laura: Okay, I'm unconscious.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: This is so fun, you guys, I love this fight.
Sam: Let's go-- oh.
Laura: Pike's at 29.
Travis: I rolled a 19.
Matt: A 19, okay, you succeed, so you take half damage. So you take five, but you're resistant from the potion, so half that, so two. Two points of fire damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Alrighty. It is now Raishan's turn.
Marisha: So not good.
Travis: I just want to go flip the table over.
Matt: Hasted. Raishan, by the way, from the attack from Percy, the damage, you can see Raishan is now visibly bleeding. Parts of the scales are torn. You can see now, at a close up vantage point, as much as the previous dragons you've battled have had a lot of resilience, Raishan's taken a fair amount of damage, but seems to not be quite as physically hearty as what you previously faced and is looking visibly hurt. Raishan is going to begin the round, turning to the rest of you. "I have business elsewhere, and you're being really obnoxious. Stay down." And glancing over is going to go ahead and with both of her hands, again, release another... She is almost out of spells. Cone of Cold.
Laura: Oh no, this is gonna be Scanlan.
Marisha: Fuck.
Matt: That is-- I need-- -So, Scanlan--
Travis: No!
Matt: Scanlan is...
Taliesin: God fucking damn it.
Matt: Frozen, covered in ice, locked in place. A solid gnome bereft of life. Motionless on the ground.
Sam: I died as I lived  hard. (laughter)
Matt: Gilmore takes--
Travis: I heard him say that before he died.
Matt: Gilmore loses a death saving throw. Vax, you take another damage to your two failed death saving throws. Pike needs to make a constitution saving throw. Grog, constitution saving throw.
Laura: Was I in there?
Matt: You were, so you also--
Travis: Twenty-four.
Matt: Twenty-four, you succeed.
Travis: Plus 10 for constitution.
Laura: That's good.
Travis: Fourteen.
Marisha: Jesus.
Laura: Eleven for Pike.
Matt: Okay, that's 30 points of cold damage to Pike.
Laura: Seriously?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: She's unconscious.
Taliesin: Yep.
Matt: Pike is unconscious.
Taliesin: That's where we're at.
Laura: We're-- we're-- I don't know how we're gonna get Scanlan back.
Taliesin: I--I have no-- there's no--
Marisha: That'll be a later question?
Taliesin: That may happen.
Matt: So Pike is down.
Taliesin: You have a plan?
Sam: I have a plan. It involves me humping a lot of angels in heaven.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: Watching this carnage, you watch as the spell finalizes the blast of cold arcane energy just careening forth and then fading. The ground itself, which is now, normally glowing orange, is now covered with a very thin sheet of ice and you watch steam rise up from the contrasting heat and cold from the spell effecting the surrounding atmosphere. As the mist dissipates, you see a big toothy grin curl across Raishan's face. Little bit of dragon blood curling past her teeth from the wounds that she's suffered. Glaring nervously over at J'Mon Sa Ord, who has taken nearly no damage at this point and is currently up in Raishan's face. Raishan says, "Well, I'm afraid I have to get to the rest of my day. Die amongst your friends as you should." And just tears off of J'Mon and goes into a full hasted fly away.
Sam: Does J'Mon get--
Liam: Attack of opportunity, J'Mon.
Matt: J'Mon does, J'Mon is gonna make a bite attack against Raishan. With a natural 20!
Sam: Does that grapple?
Travis: Are you serious?
Marisha: Does that grapple?
Matt: It does not grapple. But that is...
Marisha: She'd have to do a concentration check, right?
Matt: She will, yeah. That is 18 plus eight. That's 26 piercing damage plus she's immune to poison. She takes no poison damage. That's 28 points of piercing damage to her.
Taliesin: (whimpering)
Matt: Concentration check, oh, she's fine. It's ten plus 14, so, yeah, she's fine. So, the haste does not dispel, however, J'Mon bites out and takes a huge chunk of flesh as the teeth just scrape across the back of Raishan's wing and shoulder like... (snarls) But manages to pull away and at a full 160 foot flying speed hasted and just disappears down the hallway.
Marisha: Should've done that, should've done it.
Matt: Into the ashes and shadow behind. Keyleth, it's your turn.
Marisha: Okay, she has 120 foot-- or she just went 160 feet?
Matt: A 160 feet, yeah. ♪
Marisha: Is she-- ♪ But she wasn't-- Fuck me, oh my God, okay. Can I still see her through the tunnel?
Matt: No, she is outside of your dark vision view radius and there is no light in the tunnel ahead and it is a slight incline. You just watch her just... Disappear into the dark tunnel. Currently have no bead of sight on her.
Travis: Smoke the tunnel, dude. Maybe you get her, maybe you don't. I'm gonna shut up.
Marisha: It's a range thing. I mean, could I try and-- fuck. -This is really bad.
Taliesin: Yes, it's really bad. ♪
Marisha: She's so far away, dude.
Sam: J'Mon can chase her.
Laura: But he's there and--
Taliesin: And she's so much faster than him. She's hasted.
Travis: Don't worry, I'm gonna take off at a run and--
Taliesin: Yeah. He can only go probably half her speed.
Travis: Picture Butterbean running down an empty street.
Marisha: 'Cause my-- my question is--
Sam: Jarret's still up there.
Marisha: She didn't necessarily--
Laura: Just waiting, crossbow loaded.
Travis: He's just like... (whimpers)
Marisha: 'Cause could I try and move up and then do a long range Wall of Stone spell? To try and collapse the tunnel before she gets out? It's 120 foot.
Matt: A 120 foot range? The spell from where you are currently, which is over here, she went 160 feet even further away from you than she was, so she'd be beyond the distance of the spell unfortunately.
Travis: Cause if you miss, you trap us.
Laura: Yeah, and then we can't get out.
Marisha: No, I mean, I can't-- I mean, I could get us out again, but--
Laura: A bunch of dead people, you could get a bunch of dead people out?
Marisha: I know. Okay, wow.
Travis: Indiana Jones and the Last crusade.
Marisha: This is really bad. Okay, I will use...
Laura: That wasn't her last spell, by the way. She's got three spell slots left.
Marisha: Who's-- yeah, who's really close? Who's like one away? Who's like really bad?
Laura: Close to death?
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: He's closer to death than me.
Liam: I'm two failures.
Sam: Is Pike down?
Laura: Pike's unconscious.
Travis: Oh, she is?
Sam: Get Pike up.
Laura: I'm one fail, he's two fails. Scanlan's dead.
Taliesin: Who's got healing spells? Wake up whoever can heal.
Laura: I've got Cure Wounds if I'm awake.
Taliesin: So, get her up.
Liam: I can heal people if I get up.
Marisha: Okay, it doesn't matter. Can I kinda jump and make my way over like, this kind of...
Taliesin: Fuck.
Marisha: This-- can I cross this tinier lava right there? Kind of like, or is that a pretty far jump?
Matt: I mean, you have to still jump. So you have to make an athletics check.
Marisha: How far of a jump is that?
Matt: It's about six, seven feet. So make an athletics check.
Marisha: Sure, why not? Why not at this point?
Laura: No, Keyleth, no.
Marisha: Well, that was a natural one.
Travis: On what, on what?
Sam: Just moving.
Marisha: Just trying to jump across what should have been literally anything else.
Travis: How many hit points do you have? How many hit points do you have?
Sam: It doesn't matter, she's not even gonna get over to anyone to heal them.
Marisha: 60.
Laura: I don't know, man, lava.
Travis: One six or six zero.
Taliesin: Six zero.
Sam: She's fine. But no, she's not necessarily fine.
Laura: Lava has a new rule now.
Matt: Well, not a new rule, the actual rule.
Travis: The actual rule that we didn't use the very very first time. But we felt it last time.
Matt: So, as you rush over trying to help, you go to leap, but your foot catches what you thought was solid volcanic rock. Unfortunately, it's brittle and broken and it slips beneath your foot. In doing so, you only get about three feet before you plant the lower half of your body straight into the lava.
Laura: Oh my God.
Travis: (laughing)
Matt: That's 53 points of fire damage.
Laura: 53!
Sam: You're alive!
Laura: Get up, get out, you can get out of it. You've got seven points left.
Taliesin: You died as you lived.
Marisha: A fucking dumbass, yeah!
Travis: I can't see! It's just a wall of tears.
Laura: Can she get out of the lava or is she just in?
Marisha: Can I get out now? I'm trying to use my movement or am I gonna die if I get out?
Matt: You're essentially prone in the lava. You rolled a one to jump and you basically went...
Laura: Belly flopped into lava.
Laura: You mean, she's gonna take damage trying to get out of it?
Marisha: Can I get out?
Matt: You're technically prone. The rest of your movement will get you up and out, but it'll just get you out of the lava.
Laura: At least you're out.
Liam: Get out, get out.
Matt: So, you'll get out and you'll be just on the edge there.
Laura: Oh my God.
Travis: This is the best.
Laura: This is the worst!
Matt: Wow!
Marisha: I was like, as long as I don't roll a one, that shouldn't be that hard-- okay.
Taliesin: Oh, look, someone left a metaphor on the ground. (laughter) Don't step in it or anything. Oh God, it's everywhere.
Travis: Oh, shit.
Matt: Wow.
Taliesin: Well, this could've gone worse.
Matt: Wow!
Taliesin: Yeah!
Marisha: Okay, I'm out of the flame.
Matt: This whole thing's a metaphor for 2017.
Laura: Does J'Mon Sa Ord have any healing spells?
Marisha: And I reach over as a bonus action and do a Healing Word to-- to Vax.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Just--
Matt: What level?
Marisha: I don't know.
Travis: Come on, stay with it. -Stay in the fight.
Marisha: Level one. Oh, that's good, that's four so, nine points.
Sam: Nine points.
Travis: He wakes up!
Matt: Vax is now conscious.
Marisha: No, I'm sorry ten points, that's ten points.
Matt: There you go.
Laura: Sweet, even better. You're double digits. Scanlan, we've got to just-- we've got to get Scanlan back.
Taliesin: There's a lot of work that needs to happen.
Travis: I got her, I got-- I got Pike.
Taliesin: Who's up?
Sam: Grog is up.
Taliesin: I mean, who's next?
Travis: I think it's me.
Laura: It's Gilmore.
Travis: No, it's Gilmore.
Matt: So, Gilmore gets up. Kind of looks around. "Where did she go?"
Travis: "Through the tunnel."
Matt: Okay. He rushes this way and as he gets about there, he... slams into something that is currently invisible. You see a slight ripple of arcane energy and you see a series of small glyphs spiral outward and then it goes see-through again. He starts slamming his fists on it. "Of course, of course. Of course."
Travis: No.
Matt: He goes and... Let's see what he has left.
Travis: She made a Lite Brite wall.
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: He's a mime.
Matt: Technically, he looks like a mime from your standpoint.
Marisha: Can I turn to J'Mon? Say, "J'Mon, can you sense her presence? She's a fellow dragon. Do you know where she might be going or what she might be doing?"
Matt: "I haven't the faintest. I only just arrived."
Travis: Oh, fuck, Thordak is outside of the cave!
Liam: Are we out of combat now?
Travis: Thordak is still in the hallway.
Laura: The round's still going.
Matt: So we're gonna continue going through the order here.
Laura: So, it's Grog, it's your turn, Grog.
Matt: So, Grog, it's your turn.
Travis: I run to my buddy, Pike, and I beer bong this Greater healing potion into her gullet.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: What is that?
Laura: 4d8 plus four. I mean, 4d4 plus four.
Matt: 4d4 plus four.
Travis: Eight. Twelve. -Twelve points.
Laura: So, Pike is awake.
Travis: "Hi, hi!" -"Go, heal!"
Laura: "What's going--"
Travis: "Lot of problems."
Sam: Got any more of those Revivify's?
Matt: Alright, that ends your turn, Grog?
Laura: Actually, she does have a third level spell left.
Matt: You do.
Marisha: Really?
Laura: Yes!
Laura: She does have a third level spell!
Marisha: Well, yes, do that, do that really quick!
Laura: She cast Revivify at fourth level the last time.
Marisha: Do it, do it, do it.
Travis: The eggs that remain are toast?
Laura: Holy shit.
Matt: Two of them are completely destroyed and there is one that has been shot and is leaking.
Laura: I have it circled.
Taliesin: Don't worry about it. Let's get out there.
Travis: Alright, that ends my turn.
Matt: Okay. That brings us to Vex. I need you to make a death saving throw.
Laura: Right. I'm scared of all these dice.
Travis: I'm using what's left of my movement to go towards that egg.
Matt: Towards this egg?
Travis: Yeah, the one shot egg.
Matt: Okay. ♪
Taliesin: I'm gonna try something weird.
Matt: That's two death saving throws on Vex.
Travis: You failed it?
Laura: I failed it.
Matt: Vax.
Liam: I stumble over to my sister and cast Lay on Hands and give her five to bring her back.
Matt: So, yeah, cause you've been giving it out--
Liam: I haven't done anything with Lay on Hands. Or I might have done it once but I always do very small amounts. I have a total of 15 hit points cause I'm a third level--
Matt: I'm pretty sure you used it once before.
Liam: But I've never used more than five with that spell cause it's worthless to heal. It's just good for bringing up. So I have at least 10 hit points left.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: Five hit points.
Laura: Yeah, cause the only time you used it before was when you BAMFed up to my broom after I grabbed the dagger.
Matt: You're still prone by the way. You just basically crawled over and touched her.
Liam: That's fine. I'm gonna use the rest of my movement to stand.
Matt: Okay, so you stand up and you still have half your movement if you wanted to.
Liam: Everyone who's down, who's down? And I don't mean dead. -Pike just got--
Taliesin: Pike's up.
Matt: Pike is conscious, your sister's conscious.
Liam: Is Kima conscious?
Laura: Yes. Kima's conscious.
Liam: So, we've got dead Scanlan.
Taliesin: And that's-- that's Pike's problem.
Liam: And that's it, I'm done. Wait, where's that egg?
Matt: Which one?
Liam: It doesn't matter.
Laura: It's the last egg.
Liam: I'm done, I'm done.
Matt: Alrighty, that ends Vax's turn.
Laura: Just worried there's gonna be another lair action in the same spot.
Matt: Kima rushes up and swinging her holy sword in the air, goes for a full swing, noticing that everybody's now conscious, goes and takes a full swing towards this invisible barrier. As it streaks across, you see divine energy go flying off in a shower of sparks and a giant shimmering, shaking visual on this-- this force wall that stands here in the center of the hallway. As she finishes her attack, it shimmers unscathed. She goes for a secondary attack. Strikes again. This time as it strikes across the sparks are even brighter and you can see the impact almost pushing her back off of her feet and as the blade comes to the end of its second arc. She looks up. The wall still stands.
Travis: You are shitting me. It doesn't flicker, doesn't--
Laura: It needs like a dispel or something.
Marisha: Oh my God, I could-- Oh my God, I could!
Taliesin: Alright, that's an option.
Matt: Alrighty that brings us to...
Matt: J'Mon. J'Mon rushes. Flies up to the edge and kind of takes a moment streak a few claws across it. And where the claws streak, you can see the shimmering of this force wall.
Travis: Well, phone's out, oh God.
Matt: "The phone's out, oh God"?
Sam: He's calling an Uber because he knows we're gonna kill him after this is done.
Matt: Come on, four percent, I got four percent left.
Sam: Four percent, get this man a charger!
Matt: I know.
Sam: Taliesin!
Liam: No, no, no. Let's start a YouTube video on it.
Sam: Can you run this over to Matt?
Matt: Yeah. J'Mon, with each strike, is like testing the boundaries of it across the sides of the tunnel and just goes... "This magic holds."
Travis: What? It holds? "It--it holds?"
Matt: Fun charger.
Taliesin: Let me know, I've got maybe a plan. Yeah, you've got that. That's an option, I've got another plan. You know my plan, my plan kind of sucks, but.
Matt: I'm not getting a charge.
Sam: Give it somebody else. There's a button.
Matt: That's alright. It happens. Anyway.
Taliesin: No, no, it should just start.
Sam: No, there's a button.
Taliesin: Oh, there is a button.
Sam: There's a button, he'll find it.
Matt: J'Mon, oh, J'Mon gets the breath weapon back. And kind of pushes... both Kima and Gilmore aside. "Excuse me." And unleashes a blast of burning hot breath across this wall. As it hits, it just curls across and spreads across the side of the walls as the dragon shields both Kima and Gilmore from the blast. As it finishes, the flame has been split the entirety and has no effect on the wall.
Travis: Holy shit.
Laura: I wonder-- I wonder if the beehive thing above us, that the holes are covered in magic as well.
Travis: Are you conscious?
Laura: Am I-- I am conscious.
Taliesin: I say, well, maybe killing the eggs, I don't know. Kill the eggs.
Matt: Pike.
Travis: Or maybe it's like a Pacific Rim--
Laura: But I don't know what that says.
Sam: I--I can give it to you.
Laura: But it's now. My question is, Pike runs up, thank you. Oh, oh! If she runs up, is she gonna be able to get her hand on-- on Scanlan?
Matt: Well, she was-- She was prone, right? She just came back to consciousness. So she gets up for half her movement.
Taliesin: We got a minute. Got a minute.
Travis: I would have picked her up after the last time. I was being pissed about-- I mean, you know, she's so tiny.
Matt: Being a gnome, it's one of those things where 25 feet halved and you always round on the lower end of the scale. At ten feet, she's not close enough to touch Scanlan. Yet.
Marisha: Even with the Sprinter's Boots?
Matt: Sprinter's Boots already got used. It's got one round use.
Laura: She says "She can use the Sprinter's Boots twice" in all caps.
Matt: Alright then.
Taliesin: The caps are what make it worthwhile.
Matt: I'll trust her.
Travis: She's on a 30 second delay so she wrote that before we said it.
Laura: Actually she did write that before we said it.
Matt: Good, alright then. Then that will be just enough to put her up next to Scanlan.
Laura: Okay. So, Pike puts her hands on either side of his face and says, "Scanlan. Your letter to me was wonderful and I want to do what you asked but I can't raise Kaylee alone, I need you to come back." And she casts Revivify on him.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll a d20.
Laura: I'm so scared. Thirteen?
Matt: Thirteen, okay. As she implores to the spirit of Scanlan in this frozen form, you watch as the icy crystals that have coalesced around his form and locked him in his place, his face kind of-- This frozen look of horror. The ice begins to turn into mist around him and his color begins to return to his skin. His expression relaxes as his eyes suddenly focus and Scanlan, you find yourself conscious again looking up at Pike. Tears in her eyes, pulling her hand back from your shoulder. Looking up into the dark, you know, glowing lit interior of Thordak's lair.
Sam: Don't cry. I'm just a little cold.
Laura: "Warm up. Does anybody have a blanket?"
Sam: "Just hold me."
Laura: "Okay."
Travis: She sent a picture.
Laura: She did. She sent a picture of the Sprinter's Boots cards with two uses.
Travis: "Used twice while in rest..."
Matt: There we go. Cool, that's what I wanted, thank you. So make sure everyone has their equipment cards on them. Alright, so that finishes Pike's turn. Scanlan, you're conscious now.
Sam: Hi.
Travis: Welcome back, we're still fucked by the way.
Sam: What's going on?
Travis: They sealed us in here with a giant magic screen across this door. Dragon's breath does nothing, Kima does nothing. You know anything about this? Any limericks for magic cave doors?
Sam: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Laura: Glad you're back, Scanlan.
Sam: Thanks, thanks. I've got one thing up my sleeve. It's a dog that can run around and help us. That's about it.
Laura: Are we gonna have to take a short rest?
Taliesin: No.
Sam: I don't know, I don't know. What-- there's magic there? I can't do anything about that.
Laura: Can I-- can I-- I know I'm gonna-- Can I broom up to the holes? God, I'm so scared to get on this broom again.
Taliesin: Well, it's not-- we're still--
Laura: Oh, in our order?
Marisha: We're still going in order?
Marisha: Do you still have a Mansion?
Matt: Well, right now, as we're getting back into this. Percy, what are you doing?
Marisha: I have a crazy plan.
Laura: Did you let the dog out?
Sam: No, I don't know what--
Travis: Who let the dog out?
Laura: Scanlan, did you let the dog out?
Sam: Keyleth, do you have a crazy plan?
Marisha: You only have to cast the Mansion Door within line of sight, correct?
Sam: Yes.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: I don't know that that's true actually. Three hundred feet, 300 feet range.
Laura: Do you have it left?
Sam: I do.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: Okay, two things. One, before we start burning our seventh level spells, I still have Stone Shape. Can Keyleth go up to the wall and do I have enough-- is there just enough room in the corridor walls that I could Stone Shape--
Sam: I could Dimension Door out of here.
Laura: Why would you just--
Liam: You get a tunnel for all of us, mate.
Sam: Yeah, that would just be me.
Marisha: Can I Stone Shape a tunnel kind of around the thing? Or is--
Matt: First things first, Mordenkainen's Magnificent Mansion is a one minute casting time.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: So you could do it, but in the process of doing so, you'd probably go through about 10 different lair actions in here.
Taliesin: Yeah, there's that.
Matt: So, Keyleth, you're using, you said, stone--
Marisha: Can I Stone Shape a little passage around? Do I have just enough kinda to where I can-- where the barrier is I can kind of carve a little corridor around?
Liam: Around or under?
Matt: It would be very tiny and you'd have to crawl through to create enough-- Cause you're not quite sure how thick the barrier is, so you have to be-- have to roll an investigation check and based on your roll, I'll let you know.
Marisha: Okay.
Taliesin: This is a plan.
Marisha: Eight.
Matt: Eight? You're not sure, you can give it a shot.
Marisha: I'm-- might as well give it a shot, I mean--
Matt: Before it gets to you, it does come back to a lair action.
Laura: Wait, but--
Sam: On my turn, I drank a potion.
Matt: Okay, so take your healing.
Sam: That's it.
Taliesin: Has my turn not come up yet?
Laura: I hate that we can't get out of this fucking area!
Matt: Sorry, I asked you what you were doing.
Taliesin: Oh, I want to try something stupid.
Matt: What do you want to try?
Taliesin: I want to try and run headlong at the barrier.
Matt: Okay. Well, you have to--
Laura: Don't get too close into this area, Percy, cause this is where the fucking lair action keeps coming up.
Taliesin: I want to stay on the wall.
Matt: Stay on the wall, okay. Leaving you roughly there. So even a full turn, that's as far as you could get on a double run.
Taliesin: Yeah, and I'm up on the wall still.
Matt: Cool. Alright, now-- now this happens. With this, the quakiness of the lair seems to be subsiding a little bit. There is a tremor on the ground. It only effects those directly around the barrier, so that's my people. Everyone succeeds, so no one falls prone. So no effect on that lair action, per se. Alright, past that. You can see in the distance, past the wall, dark in the tunnel, which is almost pitch black beyond the radius, you see this slight purplish glow and then a flash of purple energy.
Taliesin: God, fucking damn it!
Marisha: Talking to Thordak!
Sam: Should I go?
Laura: What are you gonna do?
Sam: Distract it, do something.
Travis: You're gonna be all by yourself.
Marisha: Okay, I'm gonna Stone Shape and try and just cast a little, even if it's a corridor just right around.
Matt: It's a touch spell so you have to get up to it, so you're back there. So you just get up to the edge of the doorway and the wall with a double run.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Okay?
Marisha: I'm go ahead and can I use a bonus action.
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: I'm gonna use my-- no, no, no, I'm gonna just drink a healing potion real quick. Just one of my Greaters.
Matt: Okay, go for it. So it is 4d4 plus four. Alright. Gilmore.
Taliesin: This poor book has seen better days.
Matt: Gilmore doesn't really have anything that can be of aid right now.
Matt: Gilmore moves over towards you. Preparing for what you're up to, and just kind of puts his hand on your shoulder, Keyleth, and goes, "Whatever you're doing, I'm right behind you. Don't worry."
Taliesin: Hold you up so you don't fall.
Matt: Grog, you're up.
Marisha: I'm not feeling very confident right now.
Travis: You look like you're up to something, do you have a plan?
Marisha: I'm trying to Stone Shape a corridor through this, but I don't know if it's going to be enough to get through the thickness.
Travis: Right, as a backup plan...
Travis: How big is J'Mon Sa Ord? Like a big dragon or just like eh?
Matt: About the same size as Raishan.
Travis: So, we couldn't like all Falcor on J'Mon up to the spider network of tunnels in the ceiling, right? Like we couldn't ride him.
Matt: Raishan and J'Mon have a very similar physicality. Like their bodies can, much like a cat can get really thin, just enough to fit through the tunnels, maybe, but not with any riders. You guys would probably be squeezed off or crushed in the process.
Travis: Could she get us up there and then follow us up through the tunnels if we--
Taliesin: We don't know where they go.
Travis: It's better than this place. They're exhaust tunnels.
Taliesin: That's fair, although I will say, before we leave, we should probably make sure all those eggs are down -before we leave anyway.
Travis: That's my idea. And then, I'm gonna end my turn.
Laura: Are you gonna run and hit an egg?
Travis: Oh, yeah!
Laura: There's an egg left over there.
Taliesin: Hit an egg.
Travis: Shamone! Yeah, I'll just run towards egg. Ooh! I'm gonna use all three of my attacks on that egg.
Matt: Go for it. Go for it.
Marisha: Egg doesn't know what's coming.
Travis: That's a-- that's a 33.
Matt: That'll hit.
Travis: Oh, minus five. Okay. That's a 31, no, 39.
Matt: Okay, so the first strike just cleaves through the egg entirely.
Travis: Oh.
Matt: I know. You impact at the point of the bullet that Percy left earlier, which kind of left that spider web crack in the front and that just causes the entire thing to buckle under the sheer force of your axe as it swings. The egg gets cut in half, tumbles over, splattering primordial dragon whelp gore and you can see the remnants inside of what is now a two-parter primordial dragon whelp.
Laura: Did it look like Thordak?
Travis: Did any dragon parts spill out of the egg?
Matt: Yeah, as it flew off and kind--
Travis: Could I grab a piece of it, take a step back and try and like throw it towards the wall to see if it bounces off as well? Just in case it's like a, you know, lair barcode?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: Hey, we got through!
Marisha: They got the key card.
Taliesin: Multi-pass.
Matt: As you pull it up, and this creature is, nearly identical to the one that you pulled out earlier. It's still deep red crimson, but like fully, fully primordial in its visual. You take back a chunk of it and you throw it at the wall and it just passes through. (gasps)
Sam: What just happened?
Marisha: Shut up!
Laura: You were right!
Sam: What did he just do?
Taliesin: You solved it!
Sam: How, what did he do?
Liam: Destroying the last egg.
Sam: Fucking guy!
Laura: Or by--
Marisha: Or by-- it's like he said. We cover ourselves in dragon goo and then we can walk through.
Taliesin: One of the two.
Travis: Residual goo in my hand, I just like rub it all on my face.
Matt: It smells terrible.
Taliesin: You can hop in the egg. It's basically a hot tub.
Marisha: We didn't destroy all the eggs, right?
Matt: Currently, you destroyed three of them and two were lightning baked and taken off by Raishan.
Sam: My voice is my passport.
Marisha: So, do it. It's hard to say.
Taliesin: I love that movie.
Laura: Maybe we should hold onto a piece and try to pass through it.
Taliesin: Hello.
Matt: Well, that finishes Grog's turn. Vex?
Laura: That's me. I used a level-- did I use a level four spell already? Shit.
Matt: I'm pretty sure you guys went down guns blazing.
Taliesin: Somewhere in the world, there's a whole chatroom of people yelling at you telling you--
Laura: Oh, that's right, I did. I did use it cause I was--
Marisha: Yeah, I was gonna say, "somewhere"?
Laura: So I have a level three left. Who needs healing? Me and Pike and everybody.
Taliesin: There's always-- everybody needs healing.
Marisha: Me.
Laura: You do.
Sam: I got single dig going on.
Laura: So do I, I got five.
Travis: Single dig.
Laura: I got five points, how many you got?
Sam: I got eight or nine, I can't remember my math. It's pretty bad. Wait, if I had one, plus eight would be nine.
Laura: So you have nine points. I'm gonna take a healing potion. I mean, I'm gonna cast Cure Wounds on myself.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Oh, yeah, you do your thing.
Matt: 3d8 plus whatever your modifier is, go for it.
Taliesin: It's all good.
Marisha: Kind of.
Taliesin: No, it's not, I know, but like, it's looking better.
Marisha: Well, we're not all dead. We just can't die anymore.
Taliesin: And worst case scenario, we're stuck in here for another round.
Laura: So, 20 points.
Matt: Twenty points, okay.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: And you didn't even burn a spell yet.
Laura: Can I run over and get some dragon guts on my hand and then to try to put my hand through the thingy?
Matt: With your speed and getting up, cause you were prone.
Laura: Please let me out of this spot.
Matt: That close right there. You can't quite get to the dragon guts. That's as far as you can get.
Taliesin: It may just be that it's down now, but it may be the dragon guts.
Matt: Alright, so that ends Vex's turn, Vax. Whatcha doing?
Liam: I'm just gonna move towards the gate. Put my hand out and see if I can go through or if I get stopped.
Matt: You walk right through.
Taliesin: Alright!
Laura: Oh!
Marisha: It's the eggs, it was the eggs.
Liam: Alright, everybody! Quietly.
Marisha: Hang on, hang on. I'm feeling very guilty because it was my rage and anger and want for vengeance which made me run in here blindly towards her, maybe we shouldn't do it again is all I'm saying.
Taliesin: No, too late. Got to finish this off.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: Does your guilt have a Mass Cure Wounds? In that case, doesn't matter.
Matt: "Forward, now!" And all of you just start...
Marisha: Avengers Run down the hall.
Matt: Like crawling over all of you.
Taliesin: Avengers, it's clobbering time.
Sam: I--I grab Kima and I say, "Get ready to hit a dragon," and I'm gonna Dimension Door me and Kima to Thordak's body.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Oh, geez.
Matt: Kima goes, "Wait, what?" As soon as you grab the shoulder and you both suddenly vanish and reappear at Thordak's body. You both land with a flash of arcane light. As your feet hit the ground, it is an empty tunnel. So, no Raishan. -There is no Thordak corpse.
Laura: Fuck.
Sam: There's no Thordak's corpse?
Marisha: There's no Thordak's corpse?
Matt: Correct.
Laura: Fuck! Fuck.
Liam: She just wanted to talk to it.
Taliesin: She may have taken him somewhere.
Travis: Talk to it, my ass. She didn't want to talk to it.
Marisha: Or she raised him. Jesus.
Liam: One last roll in the hay.
Matt: As you guys approach, Gilmore steps up and goes, "I think I have a pretty good idea what that flash we saw was."
Marisha: What?
Taliesin: Teleport.
Matt: "Getting the hell out of here. Son of a bitch!" He takes a rock and throws it. Hair's kind of tussled.
Marisha: Vex, can you sense dragons anywhere nearby?
Laura: Can I sense anyone but J'Mon Sa Ord as far as dragons go nearby? I drop down to my knees and concentrate.
Matt: No.
Laura: Nothing! Nothing. She's nowhere. Fuck.
Matt: And that's where we'll end tonight's episode. (all groaning) We have a flight early in the morning.
Travis: Oh!
Laura: I can't believe that we all came back.
Taliesin: I can't believe we all lived.
Matt: I can't believe you all lived.
Taliesin: That should not have happened.
Marisha: That was really scary.
Laura: It was just giant clusterfuck from like halfway through with just everybody falling down and trying to get back up.
Matt: Well, if-- If you had fallen into the lava, by the way, if you had rolled poorly, you would have been submerged in lava, which was...
Laura: Unconscious.
Matt: Well, that-- that's 18d10 points of damage. If that had exceeded your max hit points, you would have been instantly dead and turned to ash.
Liam: Been nice if I'd cut out her tongue.
Laura: So, gone, gone-gone.
Matt: Yeah. There were a few close calls there.
Travis: She was like three. I think there were like nine.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: And then if you hadn't counter spelled the color...
Matt: Oh, yeah, the Prismatic Spray. That would have been real bad.
Sam: Who was she shooting against?
Taliesin: Everybody.
Marisha: It's a spray.
Matt: It's a cone that big.
Taliesin: So it would have been almost everybody.
Matt: Just so you guys know, cause it's a fun spell to kind of talk about.
Taliesin: It is.
Matt: And each of you would have been hit with a different colored ray. I would have rolled a d8 to see what color had hit you. On a one, you take 10d6 fire damage. On a failed save, half. An orange, take 10d6 acid damage, save for half. Yellow: 10d6 lightning damage. So, just randomly all of you guys basically just take 10d6 of something. Green: you take 10d6 poison damage, half save. Five, 10d6 cold damage. Six, on a failed save, you're restrained and you have to keep making saves or you turn to stone. Seven, you're blinded and you have to keep saving. A successful save ends it, if you fail the next save, you will be transported to another plane.
Laura: What?!
Sam: There's one where you get to do two things.
Matt: On an eight, on an eight, I roll again for two rays against that person.
Laura: Oh my God!
Travis: For two rays?
Sam: What if you keep rolling eights?
Matt: Keep rolling eights, you're gonna be fucked. It's a fun one. I like that spell.
Laura: Wait, what is a 10? Is 10 insta-death, what is 10?
Matt: It's one d8, so ten would be instant death, it would be. If I roll a 10 on a d8, sure. You are so done.
Taliesin: The other plane of dimension is like literally the Beetlejuice, like send you to the sandworms. You're just--
Matt: Oops.
Taliesin: And that's-- you're out of the fight until they can go find you if anyone's left. After everyone else has taken 10d-- suck.
Matt: So, guys, we'll pick this up again next week on Thursday. Find out where Raishan is.
Travis: Maybe.
Matt: With two eggs and the corpse of Thordak, The Cinder King.
Laura: Well, hopefully, oh my God.
Taliesin: Red eggs and ham?
Travis: Yeah, she just escaped with two Iphone 7's.
Matt: You start with a disadvantage.
Taliesin: I just want the internet to do a Dr. Seuss red eggs and-- I just want her with like a little red steak and two little red-- That's all I want.
Matt: Alright, guys. You guys, we'll see you at MAGFest this weekend. We'll see you there shortly.
Sam: Remember, bring your magazines and have Matt and Marisha sign any magazine.
Taliesin: Highlights.
Marisha: Yeah, all magazines. We will sign them.
Liam: I mean, you're gonna say, you don't know, but if J'Mon had not nurked those three attacks that round, might she have gone down?
Matt: She came pretty close.
Laura: Oh, yeah, if J'Mon had not gotten three, two, one.
Matt: Three, two and a one.
Marisha: That sucked.
Matt: That really sucked.
Marisha: I was about to lay some serious damage when she ran away. I was gonna bust out a seventh level blight and then she ran.
Matt: I wasn't getting-- cause that the fire breath is nasty.
Marisha: Yeah, and he didn't fucking recharge it.
Travis: If your highness wasn't smart enough to break another egg...
Laura: I got to attack one time that round. Every other round was just trying not to die.
Liam: He should have stretched before the fight.
Matt: But anyway.
Marisha: Happy New Year.
Matt: Happy New Year! Well done, guys, you survived.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yay.
Matt: Mostly. Thank you so much for our sponsor tonight, nobody. 2017. You guys are our sponsors. Well, every week you are. So thank you for all your wonderful support. Happy New Year, welcome to the chaos of 2017. We're there alongside you for it. We'll see you guys soon and... Is it Thursday yet? Have a good night. ♪

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Sound: (no audio)
Sam: -- is today's sponsor. A leading publisher of science fiction and fantasy for over 30 years. That's almost as old as I am. Do you like magic? Pirates? Knives? Royals and adventure? Then check out Shades of Magic, the series from Tor Books. The conclusion of which, A Conjuring of Light, was just released, so check out the full three-book series. Go to, there's a promo link somewhere on this page-- I'm gonna say right there. Let's say right there.
Travis: Yeah, sure!
Sam: So check that out. And the thing about sponsors, guys, is we really need to show them our love. And really show them that we appreciate what they do for us every week. They're a big part of the show, without them we would-- For instance, without sponsors, Taliesin would only be able to dye his hair platinum blond or brown.
Taliesin: Oh, no.
Marisha: It's true.
Taliesin: It's called Malibu Sunset.
Sam: Yeah. Laura's dice budget would go way down. Instead of throwing away 250 dice a week, it would maybe be more like 240, 230.
Laura: Oh God. Terrible.
Sam: I mean, Liam might have to go back to shaving his beard and selling the beard shavings to those in need.
Matt: To be fair, it was worth it. Look at them on my shelf.
Sam: I have just a few ideas for ways that you guys could show your love for our sponsors. Take them out for a candlelit dinner. I'm not talking Bennigan's, I'm talking something high-end. Shake Shack, Outback, maybe even P.F. Chang's. How about sending some romantic texts to spice things up? Keep it classy, like: Hey, Critical Role Sponsor, I wish you could be with me right now. Or, I had a dream last night, and Critical Role Sponsor? You were in it. And hey, compliments always help. Critical Role Sponsor, do you have a map? 'Cause I'm getting lost in your eyes. Or: Hey, Critical Role Sponsor, of all the beautiful curves on your body, I'm most in love with your smile. Or even: Critical Role Sponsor, on a scale of one to ten, you're a nine, and I'm the one you need.
Marisha: Don't use that one, either, in real life.
Taliesin: That would work on me.
Sam: Or you could just go to their website and buy their products. (all cheer)
Sam: So, Tor Books, thanks so much.
Matt: Thank you, Tor Books, and thank you to all those mentioned restaurants that will never be a sponsor for us now, and it's probably for the best.
Travis: The Bennigan's and the Monte Cristo.
Laura: Oh man, I hit up Bennigan's a lot.
Matt: I know, I was holding out for the P.F. Chang's but, y'know. Thank you so much, Sam, and thank you, Tor Books, for being our awesome sponsor tonight. Make sure to check out A Conjuring of Light, now available to you. All right, next up, the new episode of GM Tips is out. It came out today and this one is about suggestions on homebrewing content for your systems in game. I have, I think, three more episodes that are going on in the coming weeks, so look forward to those.
Marisha: And then we hand it off to someone awesome.
Matt: Exactly. We have a new person stepping in, after those episodes, showing their own flavor to the series. I'm excited about that.
Marisha: Because you can only learn so much from one teacher.
Matt: Exactly.
Marisha: The best teachers will teach you that.
Matt: Yep.
Travis: The Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles only had Master Splinter.
Marisha: Shut. Up.
Travis: Daniel-san only had Mr. Miyagi.
Marisha: This is the real world, okay? This isn't fantasy.
Sam: They were homeschooled, okay?
Matt: And how many times did they have to reboot that to make it work?
Travis: That's a good point.
Matt: Eventually ending with the Michael Bay films. So check out that episode of GM Tips. As a reminder to all you guys looking to homebrew: It's hard. It's time consuming. It's not for everybody.
Laura: But it's so rewarding, Matthew.
Matt: It can be rewarding.
Liam: Could you do it different though?
Matt: Ugh. So check out the episode knowing that, and we'll have next week's episode next Wednesday.
Taliesin: Your other friends tell me that they miss you too. So yeah.
Marisha: Mm-hm. That's true.
Matt: Yeah, I know. I'll see people again soon. Also, I wanted to give a shout-out. We're in the final 24-hour stretch for the Pillars of Eternity II: Deadfire crowdsourced campaign. So if you haven't yet, or you have interest in seeing the sequel to that, go and check it out. They're doing a final 24-hour stream over on Obsidian's stream channel, of course after our episode tonight. Go give them some love. And last, I have my list here, I was just able to announce that I voice Deadshot in the upcoming Justice 2. (all cheer)
Matt: Coming out in mid-May.
Laura: I play Supergirl!
Matt: Yeah! Fantástico! So look forward to that. There may be some more surprises as the cast is announced progressively down the road. Super happy to be a part of it.
Laura: Super happy.
Taliesin: (groan)
Marisha: (groan)
Matt: I need more alcohol. (all laugh)
Travis: Immediately.
Matt: Immediately. Taliesin, you wanted to mention something about your new show?
Taliesin: Yeah, we had the very first episode of The Wednesday Club this week.
Travis: Yeah!
Taliesin: I have now had eight hours of sleep, which is pretty magical.
Marisha: It was so good.
Taliesin: It was fun. And we're gonna be back this week with our next episode. We're actually gonna be talking about a lot of things, including characters with mental health issues in comic books, both superhero and otherwise. Including Legion, from the X-Men, who has currently got a show on FX which is magical.
Travis: Yeah he does. It's really good.
Matt: It's really, really good. Holy shit.
Taliesin: It's so good. So tune in, it's noon 'til two on Wednesdays, on the twitch stream where you probably are right now.
Matt: Noon 'til two Pacific.
Taliesin: And I think we bumped it to Alpha, but I don't remember, maybe not. And then it'll be on the rebroadcast if you wanna see it, but it's gonna be a lot of fun. Matt Key and Amy Dallen will be there, it's gonna be great.
Matt: Cool. Thank you, Taliesin. If nobody else has anything else to say...
Travis: Cheese is for everybody. Not just me.
Sam: Did you just say Jesus for everybody?
Travis: Cheese.
Marisha: Cheez Its?
Liam: Jesus for everybody.
Matt: Cheezits Christ for everybody.
Travis: Cheez Its Crust. (all laugh)
Matt: Without further ado, let's bring us into tonight's episode of Critical Role. (opening credits)
Matt: Hello, and welcome back. So, picking up where we last left off. Vox Machina, having defeated the Chroma Conclave, and restoring order and, for the time being, peace to the landscape of Tal'Dorei, resurrected your friend, Scanlan Shorthalt. However, he realised he needed some time to himself, to both connect with his interest in direction and life, and with his estranged illegitimate daughter, Kaylie. Upon leaving, the party proceeded to find their way to close all the loose ends that they hadn't quite had time to get to with the Conclave's assault. That involved returning the ashes of Senokir's wife to Vasselheim, and then making your way to Ank'Harel to deliver the hands of Ripley to the Scarbearers guild. On your way there you encountered a new adventurer, Taryon Darrington, who was looking to join an adventuring group for experience--
Liam: He's my favorite.
Matt: Yes, he's the best. He paid his way into your service and upon being returned to Whitestone you gave him a hazing, which broke him enough to be a little more honest with his reasoning for going on this adventure.
Laura: Let's not call it a hazing. It was an audition.
Matt: It was an audition, it was a brutal audition.
Marisha: (singing) Don't call it a comeback!
Matt: There you go. In which, knowing more about your new companion, you accepted him for the time being, understanding the dangers that are involved in following your path and he accepted. You made your way to Emon, looking as a way to find passage towards Vesrah, the home of the Water Ashari and the hopeful completion of Keyleth's AraMente. Upon finding and hiring a crew under the Captain Adella, you made your way onto your new ship and began to traverse westward onto the Ozmit Sea.
Travis: Shit, we're on a boat. We're on a boat motherfuckers!
Marisha: (singing) Don't you ever forget! (all laugh)
Matt: There is that.
Liam: We are noble creatures.
Matt: So.
Travis: (gasps) I hear the ocean.
Sam: That's someone snoring. (all laugh)
Taliesin: It's a rainstick.
Matt: So you guys have been at sea for a handful of days. It's been relatively uneventful. The boat slowly rocks, as the waters of the Ozmit are much calmer by comparison to that of the Lucidian Ocean. Making them a much more popular trade route pass between the various continents on this side of Exandria. Now the slow rocking of the boat, across the somewhat choppy waters, leads some of you into a relaxing lull over these days. Others, into perpetual bouts of nausea. But you notice that Captain Adella runs a relatively tight ship. Her crew works like clockwork, at her order, and the skies are thankfully clear these first few days, and the journey so far is mild. What would you guys like to-- Is there anything you wish to accomplish as you are travelling across the sea?
Taliesin: I've got a little bit of sketching, and working on something simple, that I might even try and build while I'm here.
Marisha: I'll catch up on some reading, I guess. Some of my alchemy reading.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Stephen King novel.
Marisha: From I've been doing, trying to make that better.
Matt: Fair enough. Anyone else?
Liam: I have been sort of shadowing Grog for a couple of days, 'cause he doesn't have any gnomes to hang out with.
Travis: Oh that's right. Oh, fuck, it's real when you said it!
Liam: I have been playing Boulder, Parchment, Shears, and telling him stories.
Travis: The non-violent kind.
Liam: Yes, yes. Just hanging out, off and on.
Matt: Okay. Vex?
Laura: I guess I've been trying to get to know Tary a little bit better. And also flying like Vex-Kite behind the ship.
Matt: Okay. And Taryon?
Sam: Lots of push-ups, trying to beef up my pecs. I also, at the start of every day, I'm going to take two of those-- I have a bunch of silver coins that I carry around with me, and I'm gonna cast a couple of spells into them, just to have them at the ready. I cast Fly into one and Blur into the other.
Matt: Okay, good to know.
Sam: And then I would probably wander down to good old Percy, and just ask him if he needs help with any tinkering.
Taliesin: Oh yeah, no, I wanna see what he has, too. Like, there's gonna be some trading. I'll show stuff.
Matt: I'll show you mine, if you show me yours?
Taliesin: Oh yeah.
Matt: Perfect. So, as the two tinkering nerds begin to reveal their secret inner interests, Vex, you, about three days into this venture, you catch what looks to be a dark spot right on the horizon. Midday, maybe like two o'clock in the afternoon, it's a warm sun, this far, as you start moving westward and southward, you head closer to what would be the equator of the planet. It's getting warmer, and the sea spray is coming up, the smell of seawater and brine occasionally meets your nose, as the ship hits the various waves as they come across, but you're still keeping a keen eye out. And it's just endless sea in all directions, you see no landmass, but you see a little bit of something appearing at the horizon.
Laura: Like land, potentially?
Matt: It could very well be land.
Laura: I guess I'll fly down and-- I'm gonna try and stay off the deck as much as possible, since it makes me so nauseous.
Matt: So you just glide around the--
Laura: Yes.
Travis: Your imaginary character is also nauseous.
Laura: Potentially, yes.
Travis: That's a bummer.
Laura: I know, right. Vex hasn't had a lot of experience with ships, you know.
Liam: Does your real self also get sea sick?
Laura: I may have fed a couple sharks in my lifetime.
Travis: She painted the ocean. It was amazing.
Marisha: Ooh.
Laura: I'm gonna fly down and tell Captain Adella.
Matt: Okay. Keeping an eye out, and as you move, you catch a little more of the shape in the distance. It looks a little small to be a landmass. If it is landmass, it's a very small one.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: But it's stationary.
Laura: Oh, it could be another ship, possibly.
Matt: It could be a ship, it could be anything that would be stationary. Literally, it's only because of your keen vantage point, and your honed eyesight, that you're able to even make that slight, little bump in the horizon from here.
Laura: All right. Captain?
Matt: As you fly down, you see her, she's at the front of the ship. She has her one hand currently on the wheel, and she's looking out, chatting to the side with one of her crewmates, and turns around as you fly down next to her. She's surprised at your immediate appearance and she's like, "Oh, (gasps) sorry, I--"
Laura: You'll get used to that someday.
Matt: One of these days, I'm sure.
Laura: (laughs)
Matt: "What can I do for you?"
Laura: I see something on the horizon; do you know of any masses in the area? Maybe a ship, or island, or--
Matt: "Take the helm." She hands off the wheel to one of her compatriots, and she rummages over in one of the small chests to the side, and pulls out a large scroll and slams it onto a table she keeps maybe ten feet off to the right of her. And she goes through and pulls out a few instruments. Marks the sun and takes a good five minutes or so getting a really strong idea of where the positioning is. She looks down. "No, not much in the way of landmasses out here, my dear."
Laura: Do you have a telescope?
Matt: She goes and pulls out her particular eye glass. It's small, but functional. Glances over, and you look over in the direction and point it out. There's nothing on the horizon.
Laura: May I take that and fly up? I swear I'll give it back.
Matt: There's a long pause--
Laura: I've got nowhere to hide.
Liam: Careful, butterfingers.
Matt: Passes it over.
Laura: Up.
Matt: You take off, look up, extend it, keeping a close view. Go ahead and make a perception check.
Travis: First one of the day.
Laura: (screams) First one, first one, first one. Which of you?
Travis: Set the tone. Roll like a champion.
Laura: Okay, okay, okay, okay.
Liam: Natural one, the spyglass has fallen in the ocean.
Laura: Shut up, don't say it out loud!
Travis: Why did you go with the weenie one?
Laura: Shut up. 21?
Matt: 21? Okay. You take a moment and glance out in the same direction you were, and you scan past the horizon. Nothing.
Laura: Motherfuck. Well, I come back down. It went under water, whatever it was. Does that mean it was big enough to be some sort of sea monster? Was it a sea monster?
Matt: "I sincerely hope not, for all of our sakes. But, nevertheless, I'm gonna go ahead and have the men man our ballistas. Just to be safe."
Laura: How quickly do those things move?
Matt: "What things?"
Laura: Sea monsters.
Matt: "Depends on the sea monster."
Laura: This one was very large.
Matt: "Hopefully slowly." And she shouts off, "Full sail!" A bunch of the deckhands start pulling the ropes down, letting the sail come to a full-- flutter of wind itself isn't too terribly strong, but it's enough to at least inflate the sails even further, and give a little more of a speedy direction.
Laura: I wanna go back up and keep an eye, with the spyglass, on any kind of movement, that looks like it's coming towards us.
Matt: Okay, cool. Some of her men go over and start loading the large ballistas to the back of the ship. Anybody else hanging out on the deck?
Travis: Can I run to the bow of the ship? Heading for a new land.
Laura: Oh wow.
Travis: In New York you can-- No, sorry. (all laugh)
Travis: On the bow of the ship.
Matt: There you stand, at the bow of the ship. You see at the very front there's the point, the-- oh man.
Taliesin: Are you really?
Travis: What?
Marisha: Are-- you're not...
Travis: No, I'm just looking to see what I can see. Like one leg up, Captain Morgan style.
Matt: There you go. As you glance out, with your hand above on your brow, guarding the bright, cloudless sunlight down upon you, it is just endless ocean.
Travis: Is there one of those amazing naked ladies on the front of the ship? Holding out the pole, that comes out from the front?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: Come on, Gil. Three. (all laugh)
Matt: It's still hard to see from this vantage point. You'll probably have to climb out there, and climb down in front of the ship to see.
Sam: He's in the back of the ship. (all laugh)
Travis: Do we mean to be going backwards?
Marisha: I go up to the deckhands who are manning the sails. Hi, heard it was full sail, full-- Do you need help with anything? To do-- you need--
Laura: Wow.
Marisha: I can make, like, wind.
Travis: Oh, you can!
Marisha: And we can maybe get there faster.
Matt: The gentleman who is there, currently wrapping a rope around his forearm, as he's pulling it down with his full weight, you can see he's maybe in his late twenties, though still going a little grey in the beard, for such a young age, but his skin is weathered, he's kind of missing a few teeth. He's got a large piece of-- like a bandana of cloth wrapped around the front of his head, and just a leather tunic. He kind of looks back to you. "Um, I've got it, but thank you."
Marisha: Oh, okay. 'Cause I can-- You're doing great. Good work.
Matt: Right, okay.
Taliesin: I'm gonna grab Bad News and run up to the crow's nest and see if I can see anything.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Guess word has gotten around the ship then.
Matt: Yeah. Well, she did shout 'full sail,' I guess maybe you went up to see what was going on. You get up to the crow's nest. Go ahead and make a perception check.
Taliesin: Make some room in here. What is my perception? That's 20.
Matt: 20, okay. You get up there, lean out, getting a view, you can see maybe 45 feet up, Vex is also keeping her eye out via broom. Taking her lead, and the direction she's facing, you glance out in that direction, but it's just open sea.
Taliesin: I'm gonna keep an eye out for a moment, for a little bit.
Liam: Is Tary down below?
Sam: I was, but I came up too. Hi, hello, hi. I have one of those little sticker things you put on the back for motion sickness. (all laugh)
Sam: One of these.
Laura: One of those things you put on your wrist? Yeah.
Sam: Hi, good day, good day, all.
Travis: Bidet.
Sam: Good day, hi, hi. That's it. (all laugh)
Matt: All right.
Marisha: I shout out to Percy, what are you guys looking for? Everyone's so excited! This is so exciting.
Travis: Why are you shouting? We have earrings.
Marisha: I was-- because we're on the high seas, and that's what sailors do.
Travis: Is it?
Marisha: Yeah! See, we're sailors, now!
Travis: We're sailors now.
Taliesin: She doesn't have to know what sailors actually do.
Matt: The shiphand who's manning the sail who's a foot from you right now just reaches up and covers his ear and goes, "Uh. We don't really yell that loud all the time into each other's ear, but thank you."
Travis: Yo-ho-ho! And a... help.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Keyleth, ask the captain if she wants to have extra speed from your wind.
Marisha: Captain.
Taliesin: The captain, yes.
Marisha: I was-- I'm not talking to you, anymore, Percy. Captain.
Matt: As you approach from behind, she's currently holding the wheel, and she doesn't even turn her head to you, goes, "Yes?"
Marisha: Would you like more speed behind those sails?
Matt: "I mean, always, but--"
Marisha: Okay! And then I go back and I start doing Gusts into the sails.
Matt: Okay, Gust is a what-level spell?
Marisha: Well, it's a cantrip, or I could do a level three Gust of Wind.
Matt: Gust would be like a (pfft). It's more of a heavy fart.
Marisha: Sorry, level two Gust of Wind.
Laura: Basically you're blowing really hard.
Matt: A level three Gust of Wind, you said?
Marisha: Level two, level two. Gust of Wind.
Matt: Concentration for up to a minute, so okay. So as you focus-- actually, this is not a spell--
Laura: We're gonna be so fast for a minute.
Matt: Second-level spell, and it cannot be done at a higher level.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: However, it gives you a full minute of a very focused gust of wind of, as it-- the sails billow even further. You can see the ropes tighten, the guy with the rope around his arm goes, "Ow ow ow ow!" Has to unwind it real fast, go in and ratchet it to the side. But the sails pick up, and the ship itself picks up speed. For the next minute you've got a nice burst or so. You watch as the captain looks over the shoulder to you and gives you a nod, an approving nod, wordless, but--
Marisha: Captain.
Sam: I turn to Doty, and I say, take this down. With an efficiency and an effective leadership role model for everyone, the redhead continues to propel us forward, faster and faster, to everyone's surprise and respect, including the captain. As the salt licks my nose, and the sweet smell of adventure is in the air, I know that with her on our side, we will be strong and we will be protected. End of chapter.
Matt: The tension on the ship--
Marisha: Hey, look! I've got rubber booties! (laughs)
Sam: You're amazing.
Marisha: Aren't I cool, Tary?
Sam: Yes you are, ahoy!
Marisha: Ahoy!
Sam: (hearty laugh) Delightful!
Matt: The tension on the ship slowly recedes over the next hour as there is no sign of anything else.
Laura: Nothing?
Liam: Hey, man!
Travis: What?
Liam: You can't walk off in the middle of a game of hide-and-seek again. I've been in a barrel for an hour! I fell asleep in there!
Travis: I'm sorry, I get so distracted. Did someone find you?
Liam: No, I just woke up in a barrel, I don't even know what time it is--
Travis: Found you.
Liam: Touché, Grog.
Travis: Hey, do you want to help me? I think there's one of those wooden naked ladies on the front of the ship but I can't really see.
Liam: Uh.
Travis: Wanna reach a hand around and see if you get a handful of wooden boob?
Liam: Do you want me to do a reach-around, is that what you're asking me to do?
Travis: I might not ever ask you again, but right now, yes.
Liam: Okay, yeah, this is not like the wood nymph-- Never mind.
Travis: No, no, no.
Liam: I go ahead and do a reach-around, I suppose.
Matt: Okay. You shimmy out onto the front of the ship. You do actually see just the cusp of what looks like a pair of hands that are clasped, carved into the top of where the wooden point at the front of the ship is. So there is definitely a figure there.
Liam: Yeah, I'll hang down.
Matt: Okay. You hang down, and reach, as one would. (all laugh)
Taliesin: This got weird quick.
Matt: As you kinda grasp over and hold and feel around there--
Laura: This is so ridiculous.
Matt: -- not finding much in the breasts, but you find a bulge. It does indeed have a figure at the front of the ship, this one is not female.
Liam: Is it a wang?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: Nice.
Matt: I mean it's a bulge where one would be, yeah.
Liam: Okay.
Marisha: This is an equal opportunity ship.
Laura: That's right.
Liam: Pat, pat, pat.
Travis: What you got down there?
Liam: Oh, she's a beaut, Grog, I wish you could see her. (all laugh)
Travis: Really? Describe her to me in vivid detail.
Liam: Oh, uh. Athletic, hearty. You know, curves in all the right places.
Travis: I'm loving this.
Liam: Yup, yup. Your type, I think.
Travis: Man, battle scars?
Liam: Uh.
Travis: How many breasts? Please say three.
Liam: It's one good, one good chest, here. You know what, I will draw you a picture. All right?
Travis: Yeah, that's great!
Liam: Okay. I'm gonna try to climb up without falling into the drink, all right?
Travis: Oh, yeah, that'd be good.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and make an athletics check real fast
Travis: (giggles)
Liam: Is this my character sheet? (all laugh)
Liam: That's a five.
Matt: That's a five? (laughs) You hear this brief bit of tension (sound of exertion). And then a (splash).
Laura: (gasps)
Travis: Vax? Vax? Yeah, okay, right, you fell off the ship. Right? Vax? Um?! (all laugh)
Sam: First player death.
Travis: I think Vax may have fallen overboard.
Marisha: Grog, what did you do?
Travis: I know it could be a very elaborate joke, but you know that sound when you deuce, and it goes  (ker-ploop)? (all laugh)
Travis: I just heard that and I think it was Vax.
Marisha: Ugh.
Laura: Can I look down in the water?
Matt: (laughs) Yeah, you look down, you don't see anybody in the water, but a moment passes and you glance over and there, up the side of the ship, with two daggers, climbing, and soaking, sopping wet with seawater, which has caused all of the heavy, thick black fabric to just become an additional 40 pounds on him, you watch Vax make his way up to the top of the ship once more.
Liam: This is the best this armor has smelled in weeks! (all laugh)
Liam: Ugh. I love the ocean!
Laura: I'm gonna land in the crow's nest with Percy.
Travis: That was amazing! You are so drenched right now.
Liam: I'm twice as heavy as normal.
Travis: Man. Yeah, no seriously, she's that stunning, huh, in the front?
Liam: I start--
Travis: I can't wait for the picture.
Liam: Oh yeah, yes, big.
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: Big.
Travis: Big booby. (all laugh)
Liam: That's you.
Travis: Big booby.
Marisha: I kinda do a quick, like, Druidcraft gust and dry him off a little bit.
Matt: Okay. It's like holding a hairdryer to him, just (loud whooshing). (all laugh)
Matt: His lips are like (pbbbft) off to the side briefly.
Liam: I shake like a husky a little bit.
Matt: Exactly.
Matt: All right, you said you head to the crow's nest with Percy?
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. Anything in particular, just keeping watch?
Laura: Just keeping watch.
Taliesin: Sitting and sketching.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: Looking out every now and then.
Laura: I don't feel as nauseous up here, it's nice.
Taliesin: Quite nice.
Matt: All right. About two hours later, I'll have you both roll perception checks, if you could.
Liam: This is the laziest day we've ever had.
Laura: I know, it's nice.
Matt: Mm-hm.
Taliesin: Wow, no.
Matt: Days at sea, it's nice.
Sam: Meanwhile, Whitestone burns. (all laugh)
Matt: Shh.
Travis: Getting flashes.
Laura: No!
Marisha: No!
Taliesin: To be fair, I'm not really looking very much.
Matt: Fair enough.
Taliesin: 11.
Matt: Okay. 11. Yeah, you're distracted.
Travis: Oh, jeez.
Taliesin: I'm distracted.
Matt: With your companion.
Laura: 18.
Matt: 18. Okay.
Taliesin: You're less distracted.
Laura: Uh, pretty distracted for Vex.
Travis: Is it clear skies or are we sailing through fog?
Matt: Uh, no, it is clear skies.
Travis: Right, so we could just look up, and see horror.
Taliesin: Wait, what?
Travis: What?
Laura: We're not having sex, we're just talking.
Travis: Oh!
Taliesin: Just having a chill. It's just to chill up there. It's nice.
Travis: Oh, right.
Liam: Just like a prom make-out, that's all.
Laura: No! Just chatting.
Taliesin: You're just sitting and drawing in a basket!
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: In a crow's nest? Like a big laundry basket? It's just like--
Taliesin: Yes, it's basically a hamper.
Laura: Yeah. TRAVIS Oh, okay.
Liam: It's the most privacy you've had--
Sam: Any hand action going on?
Taliesin: Oh my God!
Matt: (laughs) Jesus Christ!
Laura: No hand action, no hand action.
Taliesin: That got dark.
Matt: Anyway, you guys, due to distraction, catch it about the same time the rest of the party does. As you look ahead and notice that there is a fog bank forming maybe a few hundred feet ahead of the ship.
Travis: Called it.
Laura: Oh, shit.
Marisha: Who sees it?
Matt: Well, everybody does now.
Marisha: Oh, everybody does now. Can I do a nature check to see if it looks like natural ocean fog?
Matt: Go for it.
Marisha: That's not great. 14.
Matt: 14. It doesn't take much for you to realize that this fog is pretty localized. It's not an entire bank that covers the entirety of the ocean in actuance. You kind of travel from one side of the boat to the other to get the scope of it. It's pretty narrow and pretty focused in its direction.
Marisha: Does this look like something that I would have? Like, is this another druid doing a fog cloud spell?
Matt: You recognize this to be of similar size although magnified.
Marisha: Bigger than us?
Matt: A little--
Marisha: Than my spell. Bigger than my spell?
Matt: Bigger than the usual spell that you are used to casting but it does appear localized enough to be of a similar-type spell or effect.
Travis: Hey, Keyleth?
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: Quick question. Is there a d-- decor-- uh, like a proper way to announce ourselves?
Sam: Protocol.
Travis: Thank you.
Marisha: Well, I--
Matt: The ship suddenly lists a bit as you watch as Adella is now turning the wheel and turning the ship to try and veer around the fog bank that suddenly has appeared, and she's shouting off to some of her crew. They're starting to man the ballista at the back of the ship once more--
Laura: Is this normal? Is this a sea monster?
Matt: "Um. It's fog!"
Travis: (laughs)
Matt: "I have not yet encountered a monster that creates fog! But I'd rather not be caught off guard."
Marisha: Wait, wait, wait, this--
Sam: I can communicate with semaphore if that's something you'd like me to do?
Travis: What's semaphore?
Sam: It's communication with flags. It's a primitive communication technique that I learned in many of my studies, boat-to-boat it's really helpful. I pull out a couple of pieces of fabric and start gesturing--
Travis: Holy shit. You're that guy. (all laugh)
Travis: Where is the other boat?
Sam: Well, you just said to announce ourselves, I could announce. Vox--
Laura: I wonder if they can see through the fog?
Sam: -- Ma--
Travis: Yeah, we should have him do that. You should go to the front of the ship--
Sam: -- chi--
Travis: -- and just make sure they know we're coming.
Marisha: Can you do any flourishes?
Sam: -- na.
Marisha: Can you do any like tosses? Like color guard?
Sam: Oh, no, no.
Marisha: Oh, damn. All right.
Sam: That would be really cool, though.
Marisha: Sorry, Captain? How close are we to our destination? This could be Vesrah.
Matt: "From the recent calculations I made on our map, we're at least a day and a half out."
Marisha: Really? Does this look to be island-sized?
Matt: She's glancing over the front and-- you guys, by the way, are up there in the crow's nest and one of the ship hands is now climbing up the rope net to get to the top as part of his job--
Laura: It's a little crowded up here, but--
Matt: -- he gets up there and goes, "Um."
Laura: I hop on the broom and get out of it so he has more room.
Taliesin: I'm used to this enough, I know how to make room from last time I was on a boat.
Matt: He hops in and pulls out his spy glass and begins looking out. Shouts down to the captain. "Captain! It's moving!"
Laura: It's moving!
Taliesin: It's moving?
Matt: And you watch as she shifts-- the ship begins to turn wide to move around and the fog shifts to meet the direction of the ship.
Laura: Oh, shit.
Travis: Smart fog.
Laura: I just pull out an arrow and get ready.
Marisha: So it's coming towards us?
Matt: Mm-hm, or the ship is going towards it.
Laura: I'm going to tie off a rope to the broom.
Taliesin: Not a bad idea.
Matt: All right. She continues to try and move around, and the fog cloud shifts around, shakes her head and you hear as Adella shouts out, "All right, looks like we're going in. Be at the ready!" And eventually the fog bank hits the front of the ship, and within moments your visibility is cut to nothing.
Travis: What?
Matt: You can see no more than maybe a few feet past the edge of the boat, and for those at the back of the ship, the front of the ship is obscured. Those at the front of the ship, the back of the ship is obscured. It is a very, very thick fog that has completely immersed the outside of the ship.
Travis: Vax, don't try anything.
Taliesin: Everybody keep checking in.
Sam: I will flip a coin to Jumbo over there and tell him, listen, if things get hairy you might want to use this.
Travis: Use what? I can't see you.
Sam: Oh, God! Shit! (all laugh)
Marisha: I do another Gust of Wind and clear the ship deck and clear the path ahead of us.
Matt: Okay. They clear out, and slowly the fog begins to choke back inwards. Slowly, it does help temporarily, but as the ship moves forward basically you move past the area that you've cleared out a little bit, and the rest of the fog tends to envelop it.
Marisha: I'm going to see if I can see what this is from underneath the water. I'll be back. And I swan-dive off of the edge and into the water.
Laura: Did you say it over the earring?
Marisha: Yeah, bye. I'll be back. Bye! I'm going to do Alter Self to give myself little gills and little fin hands and go with the ship.
Sam: As I see her do this, I am going to alter myself to have the same.
Marisha: Oh! What's up, Tary?
Sam: I pick up the coin and hand it to Grog and say, this will make you fly. And I'll dive over the edge as well.
Matt: Okay, Tary gives a graceful, if a little clunkier, dive. In full armor, which makes it hard to swim.
Sam: Oh, shit. (all laugh)
Matt: But you can breathe underwater. It's medium armor, it's not too crazy, you're fine. But you with a much heavier splash. You look behind you, and see Taryon has met you in the water with the gills also kind of extending out of the sides of his neck. I would like both of you to make perception checks. (all laugh)
Matt: Make perception checks, please.
Marisha: Don't fuck me, Gil.
Sam: 16.
Marisha: It was cocked. It was right on a 20, which sucks. That's all right, perception check, 24.
Matt: 24. Okay, as you guys hit the water and go underneath for a second, you can see amongst the water, which is relatively still out here, and there's still the fog above, you see a slight displacement in the water.
Sam: Oh, there's something in the water, a boat.
Matt: Keyleth, you look over and you can see the displacement. There is nothing dark, but it's almost like something is pushing down into the water, or like there is a concave portion of the water.
Marisha: But nothing under the surface? Nothing breaking the surface tension of the water?
Matt: It is breaking the surface tension, like it's in-- as you glance over you can see there's what appears to be an unnatural break in the waves like a path.
Laura: Like it's invisible?
Matt: It's like another ship or something of that size is currently keeping in time with the Drensala Vis.
Taliesin: Oh.
Marisha: It looks smooth. It looks man-made?
Matt: Well, you don't see what's there. All you see is the break in the water.
Marisha: It's invisible. Okay, I come up out of the water and I use my earring to communicate that to everyone else.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Do you still have your fucking gills on?
Marisha: It's, you know-- I don't know, do I?
Laura: Does that mean you choke?
Travis: Yeah are you like--
Marisha: Can I communicate?
Sam: She has gills but she keeps her mouth and stuff right?
Marisha: I can still talk.
Matt: You can still speak, I'd say, once you break the surface of the water.
Marisha: Yeah I come out of the water and communicate it.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: You sound like Kim Carnes. Everybody, this is great. (all laugh)
Marisha: A little bit like Linda Blair.
Matt: All right, you guys hear Keyleth begin to inform you as you hear off to the left side of the ship two localized sounds-- it sounds like wood slamming into wood or some sort of a heavy impact, two in rapid succession. And you watch as from out of the fog two extremely long metallic jagged and almost like hooks or giant grappling hooks slam into the ship with chains behind them that suddenly grow taut. The rest of the crew begins to turn around and move their ballistas in the direction of where the chains come from, but you still see nothing there. The fog is too thick.
Liam: I'm going to hide.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and roll a stealth check.
Travis: And we can see the hooks, right?
Matt: You can see the hooks, yes.
Laura: Can we see the hooks from the crow's nest?
Matt: It's just out of view. You watch them pass through, and you see them arc below you, and then vanish into the fog. And you hear the impact and the ship kind of (impact noise) from the hit.
Laura: I want to try and hover down so I can see a little better.
Taliesin: Are you with me?
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: I'm going to very quietly say that I'm going to grab onto your broom and head towards that end. I'm also going to activate the spider climbing boots.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: I would definitely like to go and see the giant sea creature claw that just grabbed onto the boat.
Matt: Okay, you rush up to the edge of this giant claw that's hit it and you can see it's a thick-- like a dark iron pole maybe about that long--
Travis: Oh!
Matt: -- it's about that big around and has a large chain affixed to it that just progresses off that side of the boat into the fog. It looks like a series of giant hooks or curved spikes, and it has jammed and dug itself and dragged and caught on to the actual deck of the ship.
Travis: Good news, not a sea monster. Bad news, a big hook that leads to nowhere.
Laura: Get it off the ship. Can you pull it off?
Travis: Sure. So I'll try and lift the hook off the ship.
Matt: Go ahead and make a strength check.
Travis: 15.
Matt: 15. You're lifting right now and it's not shifting. Unfortunately, the weight of both the ship moving forward, the tension on the chain and the hook, and the hook being so heavily dug into the deck, like versus that portion you're just not getting enough of a lift. There's too much torsion on the actual connection to the ship.
Travis: You know what, I want to see where this leads. I'm going to leave it here.
Liam: Fuck you, physics.
Marisha: I'm going to swim closer to where the chains are coming from and swim closer to the invisi-ship.
Sam: I join her.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Trinket's going to run up next to Grog.
Matt: Okay, so Trinket and Grog are now heading to the left side of the ship--
Travis: Hey, buddy.
Matt: --you guys are swimming in the water towards that direction, and you watch as suddenly what was once a slight displacement in the water becomes visible. And you see before you a smaller, more compact-looking ship, but it has a series of iron plates all across it in various places. It's armored from all directions, haphazardly. Not a beautiful construction per se, but made for function.
Marisha: I'm going to come up-- oh, go ahead.
Matt: You look up, and from what you can see on the edge of the ship, and you can see what appear to be two small gray crystals that are giving a faint glow, and it looks like they are actually creating and emanating this fog that is surrounding the space.
Travis: Awesome.
Taliesin: Fog machine.
Marisha: I'm going to come up and, in the path as the ship is going by, can I do a poof of Faerie Fire in front of it? To see if I can Faerie Fire the ship?
Matt: Okay, well, you can only Faerie Fire creatures in a small area, a ship--
Marisha: It's not going to do it.
Matt: --probably shouldn't be Faerie Fire.
Marisha: Okay, then I'm going to see if I can-- can I try and grab onto the side of the ship?
Matt: With just your fingers? It's pretty-- I mean-- okay, you know what, I will say because of the iron plating there is a little bit of a grip.
Marisha: The seams?
Matt: Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Travis: With your webbed fingers.
Sam: Can I join her on this?
Matt: Mm-hm. You can, indeed.
Marisha: Natural one.
Matt: You reach up and grab, and about three nails snap, and you lose your grip, falling back into the water.
Laura: Oh, shit.
Taliesin: Oh, ow.
Laura: That's just mean.
Marisha: That shit hurts.
Sam: Athletics?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Ten.
Matt: You barely hold on. You don't climb, but you hold on and watch as Keyleth just--
Sam: Oh! I'm alone. (all laugh)
Sam: Do I see her in the water?
Matt: You see her splash and disappear under the water below. The fog is starting to close around the area.
Sam: Shit. She can swim; she'll be okay. She's so strong and powerful.
Marisha: Do I see Tary?
Matt: You just went under the water. You come back up and you watch Tary vanish as you're now being left behind. The ships are traveling faster.
Laura: Keyleth, can you do anything about this fog?
Marisha: Yes! Once I track down the ship. I kind of swim up and I say, Tary can you catch-- this might be bad. Do I see any type of-- what are they called? Cleats. The ship cleats. Do I see anything like ship cleats? Right?
Taliesin: Yeah, no, that's right, it's the little prongs.
Marisha: Like the little things, the prongs. Do I see anything like that? I want to try and do a-- like a grasp-- like Thorn Whip myself to the ship.
Matt: You see one, it's a little ways up from where the ship is actually hitting the water. You would have to probably swim close enough to get there. I'm going to say, make an athletics check to see how quickly you can try and swim against the ocean just for this brief moment. You're going to have to roll pretty high.
Marisha: Well, that's not great. Just straight athletics?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Athletics is pretty good! 15!
Matt: 15?
Marisha: Yeah!
Matt: I'll say you don't fall too far behind the ship, it's still going faster than you and the water is kind of up and down. Using your Alter Self gills, you can dive below the surface to try and avoid the choppiness of the ocean, and you come back up. What's the range on your Thorn Whip?
Marisha: 30-foot range.
Matt: 30-foot range, and it pulls whatever is there ten feet towards you. We can say it'll pull you ten feet towards it. So it gives you a slight arc, but not enough to actually reach the ship, you can just cruise past the grasping range of Taryon. So, Taryon, as you're there on the side and you glance over and you watch as Keyleth suddenly produces a large thorny whip, a druidic vine that wraps around the small cleat on the side of the ship.
Sam: Oh, shit.
Matt: And you watch as she arcs out of the fog towards you, reaching her hand out in your direction.
Sam: I will--
Marisha: Tary!
Sam: Yes!
Marisha: Tary!
Sam: Yes, grab my hero's hand. (all laugh)
Matt: Okay. You grab her hand--
Marisha: Tary! I want to apologize right now. Because in this moment, I am a damsel and I am in distress! (all laugh)
Marisha: So cross it off, bitch. Come on!
Matt: Make a strength check.
Sam: Okay. Okay.
Taliesin: Oh, please. Oh, please.
Sam: Wait, strength?
Matt: Yes, just a strength modifier bonus.
Sam: I'm feeling lucky! Yeah. (all laugh)
Sam: 19.
Liam: Hey!
Matt: Okay. All right. You grab her, and you-- it pulls you from two points, but you had managed to keep your hold and grasp Keyleth, now dangling from your arm.
Sam: I did a lot of pushups today! Ow, ow, ow, ow.
Matt: It is. You're very sore-- (all laugh)
Matt: You are very sore, but you manage to get her right up to the edge of the ship, and she manages to get a grip onto the edge.
Sam: I. Was amazing. (all laugh)
Marisha: You were. Today, in this moment, for this 30 seconds of time--
Sam: Augh! (all laugh)
Taliesin: I'm gonna be in the middle of this for months.
Marisha: --you were a hero.
Taliesin: I'm gonna be right in the middle of this. For months. Okay.
Sam: We'll omit that part. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Did it leave a little stain?
Sam: It's in my nose.
Marisha: Thanks. Okay.
Matt: You look up at this point and you can just barely see the chain, and you watch as a couple shapes, just barely visible through the fog, are now leaping across the chain towards your ship. So--
Marisha: I give a heads up. Heads up, heads up, people. Incoming forces, coming your way!
Matt: You guys in the ship, you glance over where the chains are currently pulling taut. You watch as a series of humanoid figures wearing dark, dark green and black leathers, their faces partially obscured, rush onto the ship, weapons drawn. I'm gonna ask everyone to roll initiative.
Marisha: Fuck. I hope these aren't my--
Travis: Right. You ran into our ship!
Marisha: --these aren't, like, my people, right? I haven't found out who they are.
Laura: I know! What if they are?
Travis: We gonna kill 'em.
Marisha: No!
Taliesin: Whoa! I don't feel good about that.
Laura: Look at that!
Marisha: Yay, it's a boat!
Travis: Boats!
Sam: There's a boat! Oh, wow, the top-down view looks so three-dimensional right now.
Laura: Yeah, really, it does.
Sam: It's really cool.
Laura: This is insane! This looks so 3D!
Travis: Well done, man!
Sam: 1980s graphics!
Matt: I can't take full credit for these. These were already premade
Travis: Aw.
Taliesin: This is like the finest arcade that I've ever been by.
Laura: This is so cool.
Travis: Which one's us?
Matt: All right. There's the two of them in the ocean currently off to the side.
Travis: You dingalings.
Laura: They can fly. They can fly. Oh my goodness gracious. This is so cool. What is this? What is that?
Matt: All right, so. Up in the crow's nest, we have Percy, one of the other shipmates, kinda up there. We have, down here at the wheel, the captain. These two, wielding two different ballistas.
Travis: At the bow of the ship, heading for --
Laura: -- a new land!
Matt: We have Doty, just hanging off to the side, watching and trying to take record of whatever's happening at the moment. Grog, where are you?
Travis: Wherever that grappling hook was.
Matt: That would be right here.
Sam: (roars)
Matt: With Trinket right by your side.
Travis: Welcoming committee.
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: We're gonna eat it.
Laura: Me and Percy had said we were sort of on our way down.
Taliesin: Or actually, we had sort of headed towards the other boat.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Right, so you guys had made your way. So, yeah. So--
Taliesin: I was gonna ask you to drop me at the other crow's nest on the other ship.
Laura: Oh.
Travis: You need more iron in my diet.
Marisha: These are probably the Water Ashari, aren't they?
Matt: So you guys are heading this way? Are you taking him with you?
Taliesin: If you're down.
Laura: Uh, I was going to. I wasn't going to go all the way to the other boat, but I can. If you want to go with us.
Taliesin: Oh, please!
Sam: Toy boat, toy boat.
Sam: Toy boat.
Taliesin: Toy boat.
Laura: Toy boat.
Taliesin: Toy boat.
Laura: Toy boat.
Sam: Tor Books.
Sam: Tor Books, Tor Books. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Tor Books, Tor Books. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Tor Books, Tor Books, Tor Books. It's actually kinda hard.
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: All right. Vax, where are you? Since you are hiding.
Liam: Well, I did a stealth check, and I got a 25--
Matt: Right.
Liam: I didn't know what the boat looked like, so if there's stuff in the bottom, I'd hide there, but if they're gone, I could also have gone up to the crow's nest. Whichever.
Matt: You could probably be hiding amongst one of the low sails probably. So we'll say you're up in this sail.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: In that vicinity. All righty. So. Bringing us now to the initiative order.
Taliesin: Oh, boy.
Matt: 25 to 20?
Liam: Shit.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: Oh, no.
Sam: Yikes.
Liam: (knocks on table)
Matt: 20 to 15?
Taliesin: 15.
Laura: 18.
Liam: 18.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Eee.
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: Twins.
Liam: Wapetopetok!
Laura: (explosion sounds)
Liam: (explosion sounds)
Travis: You both had 18?
Laura: Yeah!
Travis: Nice.
Matt: 15 to ten?
Travis: 14.
Matt: Grog. All right.
Marisha: Oh. 11. Sorry.
Matt: That's all right. Keyleth. And then?
Sam: Eight.
Matt: Tary.
Laura: Hey, look, some things don't change. (all laugh)
Matt: Nice!
Taliesin: Burn!
Sam: Stings.
Matt: All righty. So. You watch as these figures just jump across from the chains that are lashed onto the boat, and as two of them make it across, suddenly, up the side of the ship, you watch as if a singular wave seems to (water rushing) and splash onto the edge of the ship. However, as the water crests and splashes into the ground, it forms up into its own physical entity.
Sam: Ooh.
Travis: What?
Marisha: Oh shit. Water elementals.
Matt: You've seen this form once before, that Keyleth has taken--
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: --this is a water elemental.
Laura: What if this is the Ashari?
Marisha: It probably is. Just haven't figured that out yet.
Matt: (laughs) Where did I last put it? All righty, so. That being the case, I'm gonna go ahead and pull these up there.
Laura: Did we say we did anything about the fog? The fog is still there.
Matt: The fog is still in this vicinity right now. So, you're under the effect of a Fog Cloud spell... for the area. So, basically, the area around is heavily obscured. So that will increase uh, AC to a number of individuals. Perfect. All right, so. So first off, this elemental rushes forward to Grog, splashes around in your direction. Grog, it's gonna go ahead and take a series of swings at you.
Travis: Sweet.
Matt: Yeah, it's gonna take two slam attacks. That is a 23 to hit?
Travis: Hits.
Matt: And an 18 to hit.
Travis: Hits also.
Matt: All righty. So you suffer 12 points of bludgeoning damage. That's full damage. You're not raging.
Travis: Nope.
Matt: And that is 15. 15 points of bludgeoning damage.
Travis: Total? Or 12 and 15 both?
Matt: 12 and 15.
Travis: Gotcha.
Matt: All right, that ends that guy's turn. Next up is Vax and Vex.
Laura: I was on my way over to the other--
Taliesin: Drop off.
Laura: -- towards the other ship.
Travis: Bludgeoning.
Taliesin: As long as you roll by, I'll just let go.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: You can drop me off.
Laura: Percy wants to be dropped off at the crow's nest, so I'll fly over that direction.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Keeping an eye out for anything visible that I can shoot at.
Taliesin: The minute I see a rope, I'll just let go and drop. So she can just keep moving.
Matt: Okay. So we'll say--
Laura: Flyby.
Matt: As you guys make it onto the other side of the ship--
Taliesin: You know, you could've spent your time making two very complex Lego pirate ships. All week.
Matt: You're right.
Taliesin: I'm just saying.
Matt: But I don't have that time, unfortunately. (all laugh)
Matt: Right, so you guys, right over to this ship here?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: You drop him in the crow's nest.
Laura: Uh-huh.
Matt: All right. And you are currently on your bow? Is that all you're gonna do?
Laura: I'm on-- yeah, I'm on my broom. I'm just riding my bow around.
Matt: Fair enough.
Laura: Can I drift down to where I can see anything and I say to Keyleth, Uh, fog? Can you do anything about the fog?
Matt: On their ship?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. So as you coast down a little lower, I want you to make a perception check.
Laura: I like that one. 31.
Travis: Jesus.
Matt: 31. You glance down, and as the fog parts, you see on this ship, there are three other similarly dressed, dark green and black leather humanoids that are now beginning to rush over the chain, and standing back, on the back of the ship, arms crossed, you see a large humanoid with a fish-like head. It has no nose, a big fish-like mouth, big bulbous throat, kind of a greenish-blue skin color, very turquoise, with big fin gills at the side and a large crest that goes down the head. But it's wearing fine billowing silks, and a large vest, and its lower torso, from this giant oversized kind of plump belly, the lower torso is just this swirl of water that sits there, and it looks like it's currently concentrating through the fog on the opposite side.
Laura: Oh, jebus.
Matt: It does not seem to notice you at the moment.
Laura: Then, I'm gonna try to Bramble Shot that motherfucker.
Matt: It is right there.
Marisha: Well, that's pretty cool.
Laura: I'm gonna try to shoot a Bramble Shot at him.
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: Okay. 20?
Matt: 20? Hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Yes. Okay. Oh, Hunter's Mark. Motherfuck! That's okay, sneak attack.
Travis: It's all right, you've never played this game before.
Laura: Why? I can't help it, I get so happy. Okay.
Matt: Let's see. Actually, roll again. Because in the fog cloud you do have disadvantage on strikes.
Travis: Oh, that's cruel, man.
Laura: That's cruel.
Travis: (laughs painfully) Don't do it.
Matt: One?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Oh. That sucks.
Laura: That's okay. That's okay, I'm gonna try to do another shot. And in that downtime, I'm gonna fucking Hunter's Mark.
Sam: Yeah!
Matt: There you go.
Sam: Turn them lemons--
Travis: Into orange juice. (all laugh)
Matt: So this entity is currently Hunter's Marked, and you can take your second attack, if you like.
Laura: Okay. I can't do a Bramble Shot again 'cause that was wasted? Or does that mean-- Does a Bramble Shot only work if it connects?
Matt: I'm gonna say for the purpose of this Bramble Shot, 'cause it's only fair and it's a powerful vestige, it only works if it connects. That should change the wording on that.
Laura: Okay. Okay, I'm gonna try.
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: 19?
Matt: 19 does hit.
Laura: Yes! Okay. 15 plus four lightning damage.
Matt: Slick.
Laura: Plus Sneak Attack. Woo, an 11 for the Sneak Attack and Hunter's Mark. And then the DC of 17 or be restrained. That's strength save.
Matt: Gotcha.
Laura: And I'm gonna do the Bramble Shot damage now.
Matt: That is a 13.
Laura: Hoo, yes! He's restrained.
Matt: Go for it, roll the damage. For Bramble Shot.
Laura: Ooh. Is that a sev-- that's a one. 16.
Matt: 16. Okay. I'm gonna go ahead and make a concentration check on him. He succeeds. With a 26. All right, so, the first shot whips past and just slams into the ship. You watch as this giant fish entity kinda glances off to the side, looks down and starts looking up into the fog cloud, but you're right above it at this point, or just off to the side, and you fire your second arrow, it turns just in time to see it hit it in the shoulder, as it glances up, tries to snap it free. The wooden shaft of the arrow suddenly sprouts all these vines and thorns that begin to wrap around it and it tears in its body, and it's currently stuck in place. It cannot move.
Laura: Awesome. And I say, Percy, spellcaster, right below you. Fish guy.
Taliesin: (exhales) Got it. Not sure what to do.
Sam: Noted.
Matt: All right. So, ending that, we come to Vax's turn.
Liam: One of the assailants is directly across from me, on the other side of our boat, right?
Matt: There is one crossing right now.
Liam: But there is one guy who made it onto the boat?
Matt: There's two of them who made onto the boat, right there.
Liam: Right there? I'm gonna attempt to Assassinate that motherfucker.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Oh, god!
Matt: So you're-- we'll say you're up over, you kind of shimmy your way along the edge of the sail, and you're looking right down below him.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: This guy right there.
Liam: So, advantage on this.
Matt: The guy closest to Grog, or the guy who's alone right there?
Liam: The one that you are touching right now.
Matt: Okay, gotcha.
Liam: Yeah. So that is a 32 to hit.
Matt: That will hit.
Liam: So this is Assassinate, it's an auto-crit--
Matt: Did you roll at disadvantage because of the fog cloud?
Liam: Well, no, but I'm at advantage because of Assassinate, so the first roll was a 19.
Matt: Yeah, so you're fine.
Liam: Which is still a 32. Here we go.
Laura: I get 2d6 now for Sneak Attack.
Matt: You do. So roll another d6.
Laura: Another six!
Matt: Nice!
Taliesin: Hey, that die!
Matt: That's 48 points of damage in one hit.
Laura: Bramble Shot, motherfucker!
Liam: Doing my maths over here. 32, 36, 72. That's 80 points of damage.
Matt: 80 points of damage.
Travis: What the fuck? No wonder Tary almost died.
Liam: Is he still standing?
Matt: No. (all laugh)
Travis: Assassinate!
Matt: Just leaps off the chain and pulls out what looks like-- for this, it would be a dagger and a rapier. Glances around and goes lunging in for the captain of the ship. Gets maybe two steps, before your blade sinks into the back of the neck. And he just hits the side, and collapses, right at the edge of the ship right there. Done.
Liam: Okay, just for funsies I will throw my second dagger at the one right in front of Trink.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: So, that is not that good.
Laura: Ooh.
Liam: That's a 13.
Matt: Okay, yeah. Even with disadvantage. Okay. So this one you fire, and just disappears off to the side of the ship, but returns to your belt. Are you gonna stay where you are?
Liam: No, I'm gonna drop down.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: And circle around Trinket's tush.
Matt: All right. Make an acrobatics check.
Liam: Sure.
Matt: Just to land from the top there.
Liam: Yeah, 25.
Matt: Yeah, you're fine. So you move around behind Trinket. All righty.  That ends your turn, Vax. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm gonna take a quick look around to see if I can figure out what's causing this fog because it's annoying me.
Matt: Perception check.
Taliesin: That's a 19.
Matt: Glancing about in the area, it's hard to see, especially from this vantage point. The area is so heavily obscured with fog. You do glance and see what looks to be a very, very faint general glow in a lower area towards the edge of the ship. But that's all you can make out.
Taliesin: Starboard? Port?
Matt: It'd be on this side.
Taliesin: All right. Somebody take a look at anything. There's a glow coming from the starboard side of the enemy ship. It's the one closest to our ship. We need to find out what's causing this fog. In the meantime, I'm gonna slowly make my way down a couple of the ropes. Is that an enemy right there? That guy?
Matt: You're up here.
Taliesin: Yeah, I know. I'm asking if that's an enemy on our ship, right there.
Matt: This is an enemy right there.
Marisha: The water elemental.
Matt: These are enemies. These are your guys, the guys with the red cloaks; the red color signifies your own crewmates.
Taliesin: Okay, so we have two enemies that are currently on their ship.
Matt: Two enemies in their ship, one that's currently crossing, and one that is on the other side.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm gonna slowly start making my way, just maybe a few feet down, and I'm going to shoot those two people who are on the very edge. Both of them in the back.
Sam: There's no honor in that.
Taliesin: No. There is, on the other hand, fine comedy about to happen.
Sam: True, true.
Taliesin: I'm gonna very, very carefully. And I'm at disadvantage with this?
Matt: Disadvantage with each strike, yes.
Taliesin: Oh, that's annoying. Okay, I'm gonna use the pepperbox, the Animus, and I'm also going to burn a Grit for a push.
Matt: For which one of these guys?
Taliesin: What about one on each?
Matt: One of these two?
Taliesin: Both of them. I'll start with the first one, and work my way down.
Matt: Okay. First one there.
Taliesin: All right, so, let's see what happens.
Marisha: Big money, no whammies!
Taliesin: That will do. That's a 28?
Matt: 28 will hit.
Taliesin: And that's-- I'm sorry, you know why I'm a little confused, I just had to switch, again. That's, wow--
Marisha: That's good.
Taliesin: -- that's good. That's 17 points of damage and five points of psychic damage.
Matt: Nice!
Taliesin: And he goes ten feet away from me.
Travis: Ah.
Laura: Oh!
Marisha: (yelps)
Taliesin: (laughs)
Matt: As he's trying to step across the chain--
Liam: Wilhelm scream.
Matt: (gunshot)
Marisha: (Wilhelm screams)
Matt: He gets blasted. And (Wilhelm scream) just plunges off the side of the chain, loses his footing, tumbles over, and vanishes into the fog. And you hear this splash, a moment later.
Taliesin: Next! I love boats.
Matt: So this guy? Disadvantage on this shot.
Taliesin: Yep. Here we go. That's, oh that's good, 29. I'm rolling really well.
Matt: Yeah, that will hit.
Taliesin: Not as well as yesterday, but really well.
Marisha: (singing) I got a nautical themed, pashmina Afghan.
Taliesin: And that's five, six  that's 11 points of damage and five points of psychic damage, and a ten-foot push.
Matt: All righty. Okay. He also (snapping sound) falls off, grabs the chain, catches it with his finger, but because of the sea spray and the fog, it's too slick and (slipping sound, Wilhelm scream) just falls.
Taliesin: I was just gonna say, he's happy to grab, and I'll deal with that too.
Matt: Yeah. But they both have fallen off the ship.
Marisha: That's what she said? No.
Taliesin: I can make him drop things. I have that power.
Marisha: Oh. My god. Drop the chain they're holding on to?
Taliesin: I've been wanting to watch somebody holding on and make them drop it. I've been wanting to do that for like, probably a year and a half now. God, is there anybody fun on our side?
Laura: The fish guy.
Taliesin: You've got him grappled.
Matt: You've one guy walking across, right now, on the chain, and the guy below you who is grappled, and the water elemental that's also attacking you.
Travis: Yeah, don't you get advantage on grappled guy?
Taliesin: Technically I would. That would cancel out, wouldn't it?
Matt: He is restrained, which means attacks on him are with advantage, so it would cancel it out.
Taliesin: It would cancel it out automatically. Oh. In that case, I'm gonna take a shot on him.
Laura: And it'll probably get a chance to be unrestrained as soon as it's his turn.
Taliesin: Okay, good point. So, I'm gonna take a Sharpshooter shot. I'm also going to-- is he holding anything?
Matt: Not that you can see.
Taliesin: That's good. And he's a magic? Yeah, that will do. I'll just take a good old-fashioned Sharpshooter shot. So that's-- that's not as good. That's 18 to hit?
Matt: 18 to hit? Just barely hits.
Taliesin: Oh, thank god. Okay.
Liam: I hope these aren't your cousins.
Marisha: They might be.
Taliesin: Well. They were a little--
Travis: Nobody's tried talking yet?
Marisha: We'll figure that out.
Laura: We're kind of being ambushed. So...
Taliesin: That's kind of heavy. That's gonna be 24 points of damage, and three points of psychic damage.
Laura: I don't think your cousins are fish people.
Marisha: My cousins might be fish men.
Liam: They could be werefish or...
Marisha: They could be anybody. They could be werefish.
Matt: Gotcha. Okay, so you managed to fire (gunshot) the third shot out from Animus. You see it blasts into the upper shoulder and back portion of this fish-like creature. (growls) It does not look terribly happy. But it is currently still bound by the various thorny vines that have wrapped around it. End your turn?
Taliesin: Yeah, and I'm just gonna crawl a couple feet into the ropes in that direction.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm just gonna keep rope-swinging. There we are.
Matt: There you go. All righty, that brings us to Grog.
Travis: After getting hit by the water elemental, can I go, Hey! What do you want?
Matt: The water elemental just (gurgling growls).
Travis: Fuck it. You got saltwater in my eyes; I would like to rage!
Matt: Okay.
Travis: I go into a rage.
Marisha: It's not me, Grog. It's not me.
Travis: Oh, I hadn't thought about that. (all laugh)
Travis: And I beat the shit out of it with the dwarven hammer. Two hits.
Matt: Go for it. Two strikes.
Travis: Are these at disadvantage? Or I'm right up there?
Matt: No, you're melee, you're fine.
Travis: Hey! Reckless attack.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Oh, my.
Liam: Hells yeah.
Travis: 23.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: Nice. 17.
Matt: 17 damage. Okay. Now your last strike?
Travis: God, those are balls! They're not literal balls. 22.
Matt: That hits.
Laura: Nice!
Travis: 24. 24 points of damage.
Matt: 24 points of damage? Okay, nice. So you start bludgeoning its watery form. Even though you see the water splashing around, and it's soaking everything in the vicinity, you are still watching as each blow forces the creature to kinda shift and move, and you hear this (gurgling sound) kind of dull thud sound, and a pained noise seems to emit from this elemental creature with each impact.
Travis: You can do better than that.
Matt: Does that end your turn?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: All righty. That brings us to the rest of the crew. So these guys-- the water has now pushed them past a bit. They are moved and they're starting to try and swim their way to the edge of the ship, and they're starting to actually-- Let's see what their rolls are for their athletics. Natural 20, nice. Okay, so they both make their way up to the side of this side of the ship and latch onto the edge, right beside Keyleth and Taryon.
Sam: Oh, great.
Marisha: Can I say something to him?
Matt: Yeah, as both (grunts) get out of the water, they're pulling up right alongside you, pulling blades out.
Marisha: Hi! Kaitiyaki. Water Ashari?
Matt: You hear them just growl as they pull their blades out, and continue.
Marisha: Hm. Hm.
Liam: Kick his ass.
Travis: Yeah, we tried to talk.
Matt: So for this one, each of them are gonna make two strikes against each of you with their rapiers.
Sam: Oh, great.
Matt: Taryon, that is a 21?
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: And a 21.
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: I rolled the same number twice in a row. So you take--
Travis: What's your AC there, big guy?
Sam: 15.
Matt: Nine points of piercing damage and five points of piercing damage.
Sam: Sure.
Matt: As it just thrust--
Sam: Ow!
Matt: -- holding onto the side of the ship's armor, thrusting the rapier into you, scraping past your armor. One catches you in the hip.
Sam: Ugh.
Travis: Ooh.
Matt: Keyleth, the other one's gonna make two strikes against you. That's gonna be--
Marisha: Cousins?
Matt: An eight?
Marisha: No? Oh. Nope, that misses.
Matt: And a 27.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: And that's gonna hit you for ten points of piercing damage.
Marisha: Okay. That's-- yeah.
Matt: And it looks like their ascent has stopped and they're just right now happy to just continue to pierce these two stowaways that are gripping onto the side of the ship. This one stumbles across the rest of the chain. And turning and seeing you guys there on the edge, Vax as you dart around the side of Trinket, it's gonna move, avoid the bear, step across, and attempt to attack you twice with the rapier, once with the dagger.
Liam: Sure.
Marisha: Jeez Louise.
Matt: So the dagger's gonna be 11?
Liam: No.
Matt: Not very good.
Liam: That's a no.
Matt: However, that is a 26.
Liam: That hits. Uncanny Dodge.
Matt: And a 19.
Liam: No.
Matt: No. All right, so, they get one rapier strike towards you. That is going to be nine points of piercing damage.
Liam: Halved.
Matt: As it just cuts across the center of your armor in the midsection. It doesn't actually get the skin, but it's enough of an impact where you can feel a bruise coming.
Liam: Tight.
Matt: All righty. Ending their turn, that brings us to Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay. Am I still on the side of the boat?
Matt: You are, yes.
Marisha: I'm gonna climb up that boat.
Matt: Okay, make an athletics check.
Marisha: Ooh, that's good, 17 plus my athletics, which is good, which is seven, so 24.
Matt: Okay, so you get up on the edge of the ship, it does get one attack of opportunity against you as you move up. It's gonna slice at you with a rapier. That is gonna be an 18.
Marisha: Miss.
Sam: Whoa.
Matt: Nice.
Marisha: No. Hit. Sorry.
Matt: Okay, there you go, that's all good. That is ten points piercing damage.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: As the rapier just catches you in the back, and you're like (groans), and you climb up and get back onto the edge of the ship. As you glance around, you can see that there is the weird fish-looking guy in the center of the ship right now. It's currently bound by the vines around him.
Marisha: Any sign that these could still be my people? Pretty certain they're not.
Travis: I think you can let that go now.
Matt: You're pretty sure there's not much of a tribal sign--
Marisha: Nothing?
Matt: -- that resembles anything Ashari-related universally.
Marisha: Guys, real pirates! And then I'm going to do Control Water. And I'm going to raise water 20 feet around me, and start sinking this bitch. I want to sink this ship. 20 feet, just tidal waves coming over the boat, and I'm sinking it.
Travis: Oh, shit.
Matt: Control Water, what level is this?
Marisha: Fourth level.
Laura: We could steal this ship. Okay.
Taliesin: It might have stuff.
Marisha: Nope. I'm sinking it.
Matt: Okay, as you get on the edge you begin to pull your arms up, and as you do, you hands begin to glow with a dull blue-turquoise color, similar to the skin of this fish-like creature, and it glances over at you, and its jaw opens. You can see this burbling sound as the edges of the water begin to rise up and splash and pour into the ship, perpetually filling the lower, usually air-filled section of this ship. And it begins to immediately (thud) list a little bit to one side.
Marisha: Do I have any movement, or is that it? Probably getting up is my movement.
Matt: That's gonna be your action, and climbing up is gonna be your movement. So that's kinda where you are.
Marisha: Okay. Cool.
Matt: You can maintain concentration on it.
Taliesin: We're gonna want to break the chains.
Marisha: I maintain concentration.
Matt: You get the sense, it's gonna take a few rounds, but if you keep at this, you'll probably have a  good chance of achieving your goal.
Marisha: Cool. It's what I like to hear in life, in general.
Laura: You might bring our ship down with it, Keyleth.
Travis: If you keep at it, you might be able to achieve your goal.
Marisha: No, it's localized.
Laura: No, but, the chains attaching two ships.
Marisha: Eh. We've got time.
Taliesin: That's the correct response.
Liam: She says as she destroys everything.
Travis: Yep, yeah, yep.
Marisha: Destroy reality?
Matt: Ending Keyleth's turn, it is now the crew's go. So the crew here is gonna turn the ballistas around, as the captain leaps off down and goes behind the guy who attacked you, Vax. She pulls out a scimitar, rushes forward screaming, "Yah!" and just does a full downward arc into the back.
Laura: Oh, shit.
Liam: Adele Dazeem, ladies and gentlemen.
Laura: Like Xena. (war cry)
Marisha: Adele Dazeem.
Laura: What does Xena do? (Xena fighting call)
Matt: That is 18. That hits.
Travis: That's it.
Liam: Yeah, that's it.
Matt: Second strike is a 23. Both hit.
Liam: She also breaks hearts.
Laura: Left and right.
Liam: Left and right.
Taliesin: Oh, man.
Liam: You can relate.
Travis: Disappointed!
Matt: That's better. 24 points of slashing damage. That ends her turn. These two guys are gonna fire ballistas at the ship. (firing sound, splash)
Travis: Yes! Yes!
Matt: One of them unfortunately just coasts off to the edge and misses the ship.
Travis: Damn it! He's fired.
Matt: The other one is a natural 20.
Travis: Boom!
Laura: Damn!
Matt: Oof, that's gonna be nasty. That, yeah, okay.
Travis: Wow.
Matt: That is 42 points of damage--
Travis: Damn. From one of the ballistas?
Matt: -- to the side of the ship. You watch as one of these ballistas has a similar-looking, like, giant iron arrow, but it's designed to just split and destroy wood on impact. It's pierced, but it seems to splinter out, so it hits, and then breaks as it goes.
Travis: Oh, shit.
Matt: And as it slams into the side of this ship, just above where Taryon and the other guy are. You watch as it (crashing sound) slams and wood splinters and breaks. The impact shakes the side. I'm actually gonna ask both you and that guy to make a strength saving throw.
Travis: Come on, buddy.
Sam: That's sorta cocked, but that's okay, I'll take it. That's a five.
Matt: Okay, both of you guys--
Sam: Maybe I'll use Luck, and go again.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Sam: Ooh, yeah. Yeah, that's ten.
Matt: Okay, that's two. That's enough to hold on. The other guy did not make it. So you just hold on from the impact, the other guy (screams) falls back and splashes into--
Sam: You should've worn boat shoes! (all laugh)
Matt: Perfect.
Laura: I like to picture you in full armor with boat shoes on.
Marisha: Boat shoes on!
Matt: As you hold on, you watch as the ballista, which has a chain attached to the back of it as well, is now being ratcheted back. And as it slams through and is pulled back, it's tearing sections of the ship apart. And you can watch now, as it's pulling down and breaking a whole section.
Sam: Jesus.
Matt: That's gonna go ahead and end this crewman's turn. This guy is gonna go ahead-- crossbow and try to line it up, towards-- I can only see the guy below, with disadvantage. Oh, it's a shame, it's a natural 20. And a 19, actually. Still manages to hit, even with the disadvantage from the fog cloud. Okay, that's eight damage to that guy. All righty. And then this guy over here is gonna move to the water elemental and take a strike on it and misses. (whoosh) It goes and strikes, but the water elemental shifts out of the way, the blade moves past, without an impact. End of the round, we have Taryon.
Sam: Yeah!
Marisha: Taryon!
Sam: Yeah! So, the guy right next to me is gone, right?
Matt: Yeah, he's splashed back. Both of these guys are in the water, back ten feet.
Sam: Oh, they're gone. Okay.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Okay, Can I see? No. I'm gonna climb up.
Matt: Okay, athletics check.
Sam: Okay.
Travis: Watch this go bad.
Sam: No, no. It's okay. 16?
Matt: Yeah, that could climb up and get onto the edge of the ship, right next to Keyleth, who's currently concentrating. You see her eyes kinda glowing, and her hands glowing with this faint aqua-look as the water is now, immediately to the right of her, curling up and splashing over the bow of the ship, and just pouring into the ship below.
Sam: So cool. So cool. Okay, I just yell back to Doty, Get rid of the grappling hooks! I don't know, I have no idea what I'm doing.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: And then I see that the giant thing in front of me, right? Do I see the thing?
Matt: You do see it, yeah. It's currently bound by the series of thorny vines.
Sam: Great. I'll reach into my magic bag, and pull out a vial of acid and just throw it at the thing.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll an attack. It is restrained, so you have advantage on the ranged attack roll.
Travis: Yeah!
Sam: What do I add?
Matt: Add your-- it should say under the class.
Sam: My spell attack bonus?
Matt: It should say under the class's ability.
Sam: It says--
Matt: What's your bonus next to it on your sheet? Under your attacks.
Sam: Oh! Oh, it says--
Matt: It should be there.
Sam: No, it doesn't.
Matt: Doesn't? Ah, damn it.
Sam: Oh, wait, no, it says it. But it's cut off. It says, "DC one". I'm sure there's something after that, but are you talking about just to hit it?
Matt: Right. It's their saving throw. It's your spell DC to get past it; I think is what it is. It's not an actual ranged--
Sam: Okay, so then it's 17.
Matt: 17? Okay, good to know. Which, he has disadvantage on it, which he rolled a one in the first one, so no.
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: So go ahead and roll full damage.
Sam: Great, so that's 7d6.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Okay.
Marisha: LED six!
Laura: They're really pretty.
Taliesin: They're really fun. Yeah, I like it. I know.
Marisha: LED. Six.
Sam: 26.
Matt: 26 points of acid damage.
Travis: Wow.
Laura: Nice.
Taliesin: That's good.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: Does he let out a fishy scream?
Matt: You watch as you lob your vial, it (shattering sound) burst across the creature's chest--
Taliesin: (gurgling)
Matt: --and the acid (burning sound) begins to burn, burning part of the vines that currently keep it restrained, but--
Sam: Oh, shit! Sorry, sorry! I don't know how this stuff works!
Matt: But it does burn. You see it (gurgling grunts) trying desperately to break free, as you see the smoke of its burning flesh rise up off its body (sizzling sound).
Sam: Okay.
Matt: End your turn, Taryon?
Sam: I have a bonus action. I'll use Sanctuary. On myself.
Matt: Okay. There you go. And with that, Doty's gonna go ahead and reach down and try and grab-- nope. Not with a four. As you see, (creaking noise) you hear the metal kind of creaking, but not getting any sort of actual--
Marisha: Aw.
Taliesin: Knees, not back.
Matt: I know.
Travis: Lift with your knees.
Taliesin: God, robot!
Matt: All right, ending that round, that brings us to the top. The rushing waters: the ships continue to move forward; both of these guys shift backward.
Liam: Bye!
Matt: They're being left behind by the boats.
Taliesin: Good!
Matt: They're trying to swim forward. That brings us to Marid. Okay.
Taliesin: I've been waiting for this so for pretty much a few months.
Matt: So this guy is currently up in the side. And he's looking around, he's gonna make a quick perception check, just to look around. He got shot by you. He got shot by you. He's gonna go ahead and glance up in your direction. He's gonna go ahead and use a Water Jet ability against you.
Taliesin: All right.
Matt: Actually, let's see here--
Travis: Water Jet.
Laura: (explosion sound)
Matt: You know what, now? No, he's not.
Travis: He's not?
Matt: He is, but he's gonna use a Water Jet--
Laura: Is he not grappled anymore?
Matt: He's still grappled. He's restrained, but he can still do abilities.
Laura: Oh, shit.
Taliesin: We're fine.
Matt: 60, fine. Yeah, you're up there, but it sees the cluster in that direction. That's his own guy. He won't do that.
Travis: He wouldn't?
Laura: Ooh, honorable.
Matt: Hold on, I'm trying to see what's the most useful--
Sam: Maybe they're family.
Laura: Maybe they are.
Matt: He can't move. He can't angle it. It's really frustrating for him.
Liam: For him, right? For him? It's frustrating for him.
Matt: Yeah, for him.
Travis: It really frustrates him.
Matt: And for that, he's gonna aim for Trinket and Vax.
Laura: What is he doing, what?
Matt: Aiming for Trinket and Vax.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: So, all of a sudden, it turns its head this way, opens its mouth (hoarse gasp) and you watch as this small spiral of  greenish energy begins to swirl. And a singular burst of extremely accelerated water just (hard impact sound) fires through the fog out of sight. You hear this (whoosh) sound, and you turn just in time to watch as it blasts towards both you and Trinket. I need you to make a dexterity saving throw, and Trinket as well.
Liam: Vax or Vex?
Matt: Vax.
Liam: Vax. Yeah, you're fine.
Laura: Yeah, I'm fine.
Liam: Oh, you're doing Trinket, right.
Laura: Whoa! Trinket rolled so good!
Liam: 17.
Matt: 17?
Laura: Hold on, hold on, holda.
Sam: Hoda, hoda, hoda, hoda.
Laura: Hoda, hoda, hoda, hoda. 20!
Matt: All righty. So Trinket manages to (whoosh) duck down, taking half the damage.
Laura: He was very zen about that duck down.
Travis: (Trinket groans)
Laura: Matrix style, he's diving in. No.
Matt: So 15 points of bludgeoning damage to Trinket. 30 to you, Vax.
Liam: But halved, 'cause if I fail, it's halved. If I succeed, it's zero. It's a dexterity so it's Evasion.
Matt: Yeah. Evasion--
Liam: Evasion is for dex saves. If I fail, I take half damage, and if I succeed I take no damage.
Sam: Ooh! That's sexy.
Matt: Right.
Liam: It's how I survive dragon fights.
Matt: Yes, yes.
Travis: (singing) How I survive dragon fights.
Sam: Guys, we're having a water battle.
Laura: You guys!
Taliesin: I've been waiting for this for so long.
Laura: Well, we're having a pirate battle.
Travis: Super soaker!
Sam: Super soakers!
Taliesin: Super soakers!
Travis: Super soaker 250, super soaker 500, super soaker 1000. You remember those?
Taliesin: Oh yeah.
Sam: Yeah. I didn't know they had gauges.
Taliesin: Oh, yeah.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: So you take 15 points of bludgeoning damage. However, you are pushed 20 feet away and knocked prone.
Sam: Ooh. Ooh.
Laura: Oh, no.
Sam: Off the ship?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: (whoosh) Off the edge of the ship.
Sam: Oh! No!
Laura: (gasps) Bro!
Matt: He (splash) into the water below. (splash) It's with such force, that you aren't even given a chance to grab at the ship. You're thrust off at an arc.
Liam: Mm-hm.
Matt: And (splash) into the water. (splash) into the ocean--
Laura: Gosh, thank god Trinket ducked.
Matt: -- soaking you down into the wave. The elemental creature swirls up and occupies both the space of Grog and Trinket, and is going to go ahead and turn it into a whelm. So it's going to uh, attempt to whelm both of you, and I need you and Trinket to make strength saving throws.
Travis: Strength saving throws. I have advantage because I'm raging. 26.
Laura: 18.
Matt: All righty. You guys, both pushed out of its space. So it forces you out. However, you both manage to escape any sort of damage as its giant spiral, this whirlwind of water spins around and you both barely force your way out of it before it can do any serious damage to you.
Laura: Bearly.
Matt: All right, that leads us to Vax's turn.
Liam: Okay, so in the water, click the boots, and the wings shoot-out, and I explode up, out of the water into the air.
Sam: Wow, so cool.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: And I just start gunning it towards the guy who knocked me in, right?
Matt: Okay.
Liam: And when I'm about, I don't know, 30 feet away from him, I'm gonna-- because I'm hasted I get 120 feet of movement just for regular movement.
Matt: Yes.
Liam: And when I'm within 40 feet, I'm gonna throw Whisper at the guy.
Matt: Okay, that will put you about there.
Liam: Yep.
Travis: Hit him. Hit him!
Liam: That's 26?
Matt: 26? All righty, that hits.
Liam: And I'm gonna bamf right up to him as I hit.
Matt: (poof)
Liam: That is just a little ten, plus-- 15.
Matt: 15 points of damage with that strike. Okay.
Liam: And I should have one more. So I used bonus action for the wings, I did movement, I did action, so I've got one more action.
Matt: Your offhand attack, yeah.
Liam: Yeah. So I will shank him again.
Travis: Shank shank!
Laura: Shank shank!
Sam: Is that a new thing? Shank shank?
Matt: You have advantage on these strikes now. Because you're right up against him, and he is restrained.
Liam: 20.
Matt: 20 hits. And you do get your Sneak Attack, because of your advantage on him.
Travis: No more dagger dagger dagger.
Sam: Just shank shank?
Laura: It's just two. It's shank shank.
Sam: Okay.
Liam: That is just a nine! And I'll unload some poison into him as well. The DC is 15.
Marisha: I feel like 'shank shank' is less attractive on a t-shirt.
Matt: That is a nine. He does not succeed!
Liam: Okay, so he takes 2d10. Do I roll that, or do you, Matty?
Matt: You roll that.
Liam: All right.
Matt: So what's the damage initially?
Liam: It's nine. Plus 13 poison damage.
Matt: Okay, so 22. Are you gonna roll Sneak Attack damage?
Liam: Why would I get that here? Is he up against anybody?
Matt: No, you have advantage on him because he is restrained.
Liam: Oh, advantage, yay, I love you.
Matt: And he is not immune to poison.
Liam: 20 Sneak Attack damage. Thanks, Matt.
Matt: How much is that total?
Liam: 20 for the sneak attack.
Matt: 20 for the sneak attack. 20 plus 22.
Laura: You're attacking the guy?
Matt: We'll see if he maintains concentration.
Laura: How'd you get all the way over there?
Matt: He does not. So. Let me double-check one thing real fast, here, because this will be interesting.
Liam: Shank-shank-shank. Shank-shank-shank.
Liam: (singing) Shank your booty. Shank your booty.
Taliesin: (singing) Shank your booty. Shank your booty.
Laura: (singing) Shank your booty. Shank your booty.
Marisha: (singing) Shank your booty. Shank your booty.
Matt: Okay, got you. So he loses concentration. He is now poisoned and restrained. He has to make a saving throw, actually, to see-- which he did not. So yeah, still restrained.
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Whoof. That sucks. Okay, that ends Vax's turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Awesome.
Liam: Get him!
Laura: Cool, then since he's got my brother next to him, I'm gonna fly down so I can see him better, and shoot him two times with my blazing bowstring on the first one.
Liam: She shouts as she flies through the air.
Laura: Blazing bowstring! Activate!
Marisha: (electric guitar sounds)
Laura: Do I still get disadvantage?
Matt: You do, the fog is still present.
Laura: Okay. 28.
Matt: 28 hits. Second attack?
Laura: Second attack is just-- can I do regular?
Matt: Yes, that's fine.
Laura: 18.
Matt: Hits. Go ahead and roll damage for both.
Laura: 12 with three points of lightning damage.
Travis: Did you add your Hunter's Mark?
Laura: I'm about to. 13 additional. And then ten with the blazing bowstring-- nine more with the blazing bowstring.
Matt: Nice, all right.
Laura: And then my second attack--
Matt: Correct.
Laura: 11 plus three lightning.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: I don't get Sneak Attack again, but I do get Hunter's Mark.
Matt: You do get Hunter's Mark, yes.
Laura: And three more for Hunter's Mark.
Matt: Nice. So, after he's stabbed in the side, and the poison pulses through his system, turns around, and as the arrow slams into him, burst of flame and lightning arcs through his body.
Laura: And I'm gonna fly back a little so he can see me less. And then I'm going to have Trinket, for my bonus action--
Marisha: (gasps)
Laura: -- run forward and attack the guy on the edge of the ship.
Liam: Is it a leap year?
Marisha: This hasn't happened in like 20 games.
Laura: I know, I know.
Marisha: Oh my god.
Matt: Is Trinket doing just a regular attack?
Laura: Yeah, because it's my bonus, so he can just do one attack.
Matt: Because if you wanted to, instead of going for a damaging attack, you can go for a shove.
Laura: Oh, I could? I didn't think I was allowed to do that.
Matt: Yeah, you can do it, you can sacrifice an attack for a shove strike. It doesn't do damage.
Laura: I want him to do that. That's what I wanted him to do.
Matt: I was wondering if that's what you were going for. Okay, so go ahead and roll an athletics check for Trinket.
Laura: Athletics... is that strength? That's just five.
Matt: Five? Okay, yeah, so Trinket goes up and slams into the guy, and he gets pushed against the side of the ship, but not with enough force to shove him over the edge, and he (grunt) catches himself.
Laura: So Trinket just stands up, he's got his paws on his chest.
Matt: Just pressing (growls) on there, yeah.
Laura: Growls loudly into his face.
Liam: (growls)
Matt: All right, that ends your turn. Percy, you're up.
Laura: I mean, that's scary, a big bear. Especially if these guys are on the sea. They don't see bears very often.
Taliesin: All right. That guy's still in the vines, right?
Matt: Correct, yes.
Taliesin: He's becoming a problem, though. Okay, I'm going to, if I can pull this off, is it possible that I can break the rope that I'm currently holding onto and do a little Errol Flynn like fly down to the bottom of the boat?
Matt: You can do that, yeah.
Taliesin: Is it possible that the rope I have to shoot is in between me and him?
Matt: Uh... sure.
Marisha: You going to kill two birds with one stone?
Taliesin: I'm going to use a piercing shot, and I'm going to try to do both with one shot and Errol Flynn this shit.
Travis: Oh shit! Oh shit!
Matt: Okay. Make an acrobatics check as part of this.
Marisha: Errol Flynn this shit, is that what you said?
Matt: This is specifically the kind of shit acrobatics is for.
Travis: Totally. 100%. Swashbuckling.
Taliesin: Acrobatics... that's a 23.
Matt: Yeah, go ahead and take it-- still at disadvantage.
Taliesin: Still at disadvantage.
Matt: Because of the fog.
Marisha: Oh man, now you're in an Angelina Jolie movie.
Taliesin: Nope.
Matt: Nope?
Taliesin: So this is gonna be funny, because I was using the Animus.
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: So depending on how mean you wanna be here, I'm gonna take my 2d6.
Matt: Oh, you misfire?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: (laughs)
Taliesin: So this is gonna be funny. I'm gonna take my 2d6, and that's six points of psychic damage to me, that's cool, that's cool.
Marisha: What if one day you died because of that?
Matt: Okay, so you use your piercing shot to shoot both at him and to shoot the-- or to shoot the rope and then swing down?
Taliesin: Yes. So does the psychic damage mean I let go of the rope I'm holding on to? Or does it not? Also, my feet are sticky and my hand has--
Matt: Your feet are sticky, but your hands are not.
Taliesin: But my hands are not.
Matt: It's the blast of psychic energy. You know what? I'll say go ahead and make a wisdom saving throw.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm down for this.
Matt: Yes, make a wisdom saving throw to see if you can withstand the blast to your brain as your vision goes white.
Taliesin: So that's an eight.
Liam: Goes in the drink.
Matt: Nope.
Taliesin: Here's the next question  do I have any chance of grabbing anything with my hands and feet on the way down?
Matt: Unfortunately, no. What happens is, as you grab the rope and you fire-- as you slash the rope and go to swing down, you go to fire, and as you do, it backs up, and your vision just goes white and you feel your whole body go instantaneously numb. You're not sure if you're even holding the rope anymore. All of your--
Taliesin: So I'm just gonna wake up on the deck of the floor of the boat.
Matt: -- and the pain sears in your brain, you hear the (heartbeat) the pulse of pain through, and as your vision comes to, it clarifies, and color comes back just in time for you to see the surface of the ship rocketing towards your face. (impact sound) And you slam into the ground, straight across, landing prone at the base of the ground in front of the fish creature.
Laura: Oh, no!
Travis: It was so cool!
Laura: That one was seriously bad.
Sam: Can I yell out, No! New best friend!
Matt: You can. You take 12 points of bludgeoning damage from the fall.
Taliesin: 12 points of bludgeoning damage. And can I burn a bonus action, am I okay, or--
Matt: You could use-- I mean, that was your action, you land, yeah. You're still prone, but you can still use the rest of your attacks if you want.
Marisha: I'm sorry, your best friend?
Taliesin: I can use the rest of my actions?
Matt: I mean, that was an attack. The piercing shot. So you still have your two other attacks, if you wanted to use them.
Taliesin: Just because it hurts and I'm irritated, I'm just gonna pull out Retort and fire in the general direction.
Matt: Okay, so two more strikes, both at disadvantage.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Sam: (gunshot sounds)
Taliesin: Oh, that's not bad.
Marisha: What the fuck?
Taliesin: 28?
Matt: 28 hits.
Marisha: That's not as good.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: 16 does not hit.
Taliesin: Okay, so the 28 one does, though. That's seven points of damage.
Matt: Seven points of damage. Got it. Okay. So as you roll over on your back and pull out Retort and just fire two shots, one just goes off into the fog. You see it tear through the ship mast for a second, some wood splinters, the other one, you hear the creature take the impact from the blow. You're not even really paying attention where it's going, you're just hearing the sound and shooting in that direction. All right, that'll end your turn, Percy?
Taliesin: Oh yeah.
Matt: (laughs)
Taliesin: What a turn. What a terrible way to go.
Matt: Grog, you're up.
Travis: I wanna keep hitting the water elemental.
Matt: All right. So, you turn towards it over there. Go for it.
Travis: Reckless attacks, please.
Matt: Yes.
Travis: First one's a 30.
Matt: That'll hit.
Travis: 21 points of damage.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: Second attack. It's very methodical. 26.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: Does that hit?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: And 17 points of damage.
Matt: 17 points of damage, all right. So you rush in and slam twice in this elemental again. You see its form with each hit is just splattering water against the ground, and where once it came up as this solid force of water, it's starting to have difficulty keeping its form together. Where once it was focused genuinely on you and Trinket, it seems to be lashing out now in a frenzied state, it's just punching all around. Does that finish your turn?
Travis: Am I not good enough to hold your attention? Yeah, that finishes my turn.
Matt: Okay. Got you. All right. This guy here's gonna squeeze past the side.
Laura: Trinket attacks him on the way over.
Matt: He hasn't moved away from Trinket yet.
Laura: Damn it.
Matt: Actually, no, he's gonna squeeze this way instead because Grog's on that side. He's gonna go ahead and move past the bear and let Trinket push his weight into the side of the ship, and is going to go ahead and take three strikes at you, Grog.
Travis: Yay!
Matt: With advantage.
Travis: Another play-friend.
Matt: That's gonna be two strikes against you and one against Trinket. First one with advantage is gonna be a 24.
Travis: Hits!
Matt: Dagger is gonna be a 15.
Travis: Misses. With advantage too?
Matt: Yeah, his first attack roll was a one. All right, so you take ten points of piercing damage, reduced to five.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And then the other rapier attack's gonna go against Trinket. Which is a natural one. Jesus.
Travis: Wow.
Matt: So he just swings and Trinket catches the blade in his teeth, and he draws the rapier back, which is now covered in bear slobber.
Travis: This is not the time to choke, buddy.
Matt: That ends his turn. This guy here is gonna go ahead and turn to face off with Captain Adella. He's gonna make three strikes against her.
Marisha: C'mon, Adele Dazeem.
Matt: That's gonna hit. First rapier strike, second rapier strike, and the dagger, all three hit, unfortunately.
Laura: We're all such dicks.
Travis: You guys are awful.
Marisha: We've got these shitty nicknames for everyone.
Matt: 14, and, okay. Total of 21 points of damage on her.
Travis: 21 points.
Matt: So as she tries to parry to the side, the pirate just catches her off-guard and gets three good hits in, but Adella parries off to the side, gets pushed back a bit, and then forces her way forward, preparing her counter-attack.
Travis: Come on!
Matt: That brings us to--
Travis: We should probably protect the captain.
Matt: -- Keyleth.
Sam: Okay.
Marisha: Oh, shit. We're still attached to this boat, right?
Sam: Multiple times.
Matt: Currently, yes. If you're still concentrating on this, the water's still pouring into it.
Marisha: I am. How much slack do we have before I start pulling our boat underwater, because I don't want to be that-- kinda thought someone would start--
Matt: It depends, right now it'll be probably two rounds before it begins to genuinely start sinking heavily. Depending on if the ballista get another shot at the side or not.
Marisha: I wanna keep doing this. Can I concentrate my flooding of water so-- there's now a hole in the side of the ship, under where Tary was, right? I had to think not to say Scanlan.
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: I wanna flood in more water. Can I flood it more on this side, to where I try and-- or can I do something fancy, like a giant hand of the gods from the wave come up and--
Taliesin: Kind of like Fantasia?
Marisha: -- take the fish-head guy?
Travis: What the shit?
Marisha: Or can I at least try and flood that side to where I can try and toss him over?
Matt: You can either choose to continue to flood the ship, or use Control Water to attack the fish character. One or the other.
Travis: Don't look at us, man.
Marisha: Let me see if I can Control Water and take a wave to toss him overboard.
Matt: Toss him overboard?
Laura: He's a fish! That'll help him.
Marisha: He is a fish.
Matt: He is very plainly a fish-based creature.
Marisha: He is very definitely a fish.
Matt: The lower half of his body is a swirl of water.
Marisha: Oh, right.
Travis: So put him in the water.
Laura: I don't think putting him in the water's gonna help us very much.
Travis: Water and water makes--
Marisha: You know, I'll just keep sinking this ship.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I'm gonna keep concentrating.
Laura: You could get rid of the fog.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I can't do that right now.
Matt: The torrent of water continues to shove down into the ship. You've redirected it. As it's pouring into the side, you use your other hand to pick up another portion of water and start spraying it into the wound that was left right above, Taryon, you're getting sprayed by water overhead as it's just traveling over you like an Epcot Center water fountain.
Marisha: You're good, right, Tary?
Sam: Yes?
Marisha: All right.
Sam: This is so weird!
Marisha: Good! This is like a Tuesday for us.
Matt: All right, so the crew on this side, this guy's gonna go ahead and move up higher up there and take a swing. Misses, unfortunately. This guy's gonna take another crossbow shot down at the one that's attacking the captain. That will hit, actually.
Travis: Yes! Get him!
Laura: Get him!
Matt: All righty. And then these two guys are gonna take two more ballista shots as they load up, pull it back. This guy continues-- actually, this guy doesn't get a shot, because he spent the last round winching and pulling it back, so he gets one shot retracting. This guy managed to pull it back and take a secondary shot at the ship. That hits. It's not a critical, but it's still pretty decent. That is 14 points of damage on the side of the ship. This one slams into it maybe about five feet to the left. Keyleth, actually all of you who are on the ship, you feel the impact as the second blow hits, and it pulls out the side, this time much lower, and water is now really pushing, the ship is slowly starting to capsize to one side. That ends that group's turn.
Sam: I've read about this. Many of us will die. (all laugh)
Matt: Tary, it's your turn.
Sam: My turn?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Okay. Is there water all over the deck, is it hard to move, is it okay?
Matt: I mean, it's wet, and the deck is currently listing to one side.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: Is it listing towards Keyleth and--
Matt: It's listing this way.
Travis: Boat shoes!
Sam: Yeah, those are like impervious to water. (all laugh)
Sam: Okay. Once again, I'll yell back at Doty and just say, Ahh! The thing with the grappling hooks again!
Matt: Doty actually does succeed this turn. (all cheer)
Matt: Doty lifts it out, and now that it's starting to pull, the chains are very taut, as this ship lists, the ship's being pulled a little ways towards it, the chains are strained, so as soon as Doty pulls it up, it just goes firing off the side and plunges off the water to the other side. The ship's now beginning to slowly turn this way as the other chain is now tugging it from that direction, and this is now listing to that side. So, what are you doing, Tary?
Sam: Yeah, I'm going to cast Haste as my action. And I get a second action, now, because I'm hasted, right?
Matt: You get to use a second action that's a melee attack.
Sam: It has to be a melee attack?
Matt: Melee attack, disengage, hide...
Sam: Can I use-- it said I could use a magic item.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Or use an item, use an item.
Matt: Yeah, use an object.
Sam: Oh, use an object, not an item. I can't use my ring or anything, right?
Matt: I'll say, for the purposes of this? Sure. Why not?
Sam: Okay, so I'm hasted, I will use, I pick up the Ring of the Ram, and I'll ram the fish-man.
Travis: Oh, yes!
Laura: Oh, nice!
Matt: Okay. How many charges does it have?
Travis: Ring of the Ram, that's been a while.
Sam: Three charges, right? So I can use two?
Matt: You can use as many charges as you want that the ring holds. It should tell you up to a certain amount--
Sam: It has three charges.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Well, it says I can use an action to expend one to three of its charges. Okay. I'll do all three, right? (all laugh)
Matt: All right. So, it is still restrained, so go ahead and roll with advantage an attack roll plus seven.
Sam: Ooh. 19.
Matt: With advantage?
Sam: Oh. Natural 20. (all cheer)
Matt: Oh, shit. Well. Okay. Roll 6d10 force damage.
Travis: Holy shit. 6d10?
Taliesin: How many do you need?
Matt: Well, then we double what he rolled, because it's a critical.
Marisha: Six, you need six?
Travis: And that's force damage.
Sam: Okay. 35. 70.
Matt: 70 points of force damage against the creature. So as you focus on your ring, there's a burst of divine white-looking energy that turns into this giant plate-like shield in front of you, and it just stays there. You're like, huh? And suddenly it thrusts forward, and out the front of it, like a portal, a giant spectral ram-head just slams into the chest, throwing it off the ship, as it screams, it just turns into sea foam. (all cheer)
Travis: You killed it!
Matt: It's scattered into the ocean across from you. It is destroyed.
Sam: Can it be like a kid who's holding a rifle, but not up to him, so it hits him and it really throws me back a little?
Matt: Which, yeah, sure. Roll a dexterity saving throw.
Sam: Five.
Matt: Off the ship, into the water.
Sam: Yes!
Matt: Splash! Into the water.
Travis: Back in the drink again!
Marisha: Are there still bad guys left?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: There are. There's two over here, and there's two currently in the water below. Ending your turn--
Marisha: But nothing left on the ship, right?
Laura: That we see?
Marisha: That we see?
Matt: Correct. These guys are trying to swim forward. That was cocked. Nope. These guys, at the top of the round, get pushed back.
Marisha: Bye!
Matt: Taryon--
Sam: I lost Alter Self when I hasted.
Matt: Yeah, so you're just generally swimming, but you also float back in the ocean. You're now caught in the water behind, so the ship carries on without you.
Taliesin: And that was the last anyone saw of Taryon Darrington. (all laugh)
Matt: All right.
Marisha: He got his $50,000 worth.
Matt: The water elemental's going to go ahead and take two slam attacks.
Sam: You there! Hello.
Matt: It's taking a slam attack against Grog, it's taking a slam attack against the pirate.
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: So against Grog, it has advantage on you because you used reckless.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: That is a 23.
Travis: Hits.
Matt: 16 points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to eight.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And against the pirate, that hits. And the elemental reaches around, and as it punches Grog in the face, it slams the other pirate in the head, its fist engulfing his head, and he just kind of stands there, trying to find a way out, and it just drowns him while it's standing, and it drops the body to the ground.
Laura: Oh, fuck.
Travis: Oh, it killed him?
Matt: Yeah, it lashed out.
Laura: One of our guys?
Matt: Did enough damage-- no, one of the pirates.
Laura: Oh, shit. He is untameable.
Matt: Vax, you're up.
Liam: You know when you look at a cat that's alarmed because it's nervous and all the hair is puffed out? Vax's feathers are all going like pffft, watching Keyleth wreck the boat, I could fucking watch you do this all day. Up into the air, and I go and get Tary out of the water.
Sam: Aw!
Matt: You go grab Tary.
Liam: And I'm gonna pick him up and dump him back on our boat, towards the back of the ship.
Matt: Okay, carrying him, we'll say you're at half speed, so that gets you just to the edge of the ship.
Liam: Cool. I'm good. Wait, no, do I have an action left? Can I use Divine Sense right now?
Matt: As you're hasted, you have the haste action...
Liam: Yeah, I am hasted.
Matt: I'll say you can use Divine Sense, sure.
Liam: Okay. I pat him down and go, we're good, we're good, and I'm just gonna make sure he's not a demon.
Matt: Oh. Taryon.
Liam: Yes.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: A demon? What?
Laura: Why a demon?
Marisha: What? Why would you think he's a demon?
Sam: Guys, the conclusion of the epic series Shades of Magic, A Conjuring of Light, was just released, so go pick it up. It's put out by Tor books, a leading publisher of science fiction and fantasy for over three decades.
Matt: Okay. That ends Vax's turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. I'll fly over to Percy, who's on the fucking ground.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And I say, are you good?
Taliesin: It was worth it. Good.
Laura: Lovely. Get off this boat. And I'll fly over and try to help out the fight on the other side.
Matt: Okay. We'll say that's 20... 40... yeah, you can get over here.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: You'd still be just above the fray.
Laura: And then I'll shoot some arrows at--
Matt: There's one guy left, and the elemental.
Laura: I'll shoot 'em at the guy.
Matt: Okay, go ahead for two strikes on that.
Laura: Yeah. Oh, disadvantage, too?
Matt: The fog is still around, so yes.
Laura: Oh, damn it. Okay.
Travis: Oh, one of them was a--
Laura: Yeah, but. 20 on the first one, and 15 plus seven on the second one. 22.
Matt: Both hit. Roll damage.
Laura: Awesome.
Marisha: You have a d3?
Sam: I need a d3.
Taliesin: It's a d6.
Marisha: It's a d6 cut in half.
Sam: Wait, two, four, six or something? Okay.
Laura: Oh, Jesus, this is terrible, this is terrible.
Taliesin: There is actually a d3 that has two ones, two twos, and two threes.
Laura: 17. Plus three lightning damage. And then... 16 plus two lightning damage. And then for my bonus action, Trinket's gonna-- and it was Sneak Attack, because there's something next to him, huh?
Matt: Correct.
Laura: (cackles) Five for sneak attack!
Matt: All righty.
Laura: And then Trinket will attack him too.
Matt: Roll an attack for Trinket.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: (bear noises)
Laura: Yes. That is-- what is that, a bite attack?
Matt: Whichever one you decide.
Laura: Sure, it's a bite attack. A 24.
Matt: That hits. Roll damage.
Laura: It's 11.
Matt: 11. As both arrows staple, one into the guy's knee, he falls down to the ground on one knee. The other one hits him in the side of the body, and he looks up just as Trinket chomps down over his head. (all cheer)
Matt: And just crunches down. You watch as his skull collapses with the force of the bear's jaw, and the arms just go limp at the sides. (all cheer)
Matt: Trinket then shakes him a bit, and his limp body just goes whoompf, whoompf, just slamming and breaking into the side of the ship, and then drops it on the ground, and Trinket turns around and looks in your direction.
Laura: Good job, boy!
Liam: That made us all so happy.
Laura: Yeah, it's great.
Marisha: See a guy get thrashed.
Laura: I wish Scanlan could've been here to see that.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: 87 episodes. One kill.
Laura: He's had more than one.
Matt: Two of the guys are trying to swim, but they're not able to keep up. You just watch them slowly vanish behind you in the fog. All right, Percy?
Taliesin: The water elemental's still a problem, I take it?
Matt: You can see it still lashing out, yes.
Travis: And there's one hook left.
Taliesin: I'm going to stand up, dust myself off, pull out Bad News, take careful aim-- slightly irritated aim at that water elemental, and see what happens.
Matt: Go for it. Disadvantage on the shot.
Taliesin: Disadvantage on the shot.
Travis: Has the fog not dissipated because fish-head got done with?
Laura: No.
Taliesin: Not yet. I'm actually going to spend a grit to gain my advantage back.
Matt: Okay. Go for it.
Taliesin: Come on. Thank god I didn't do that too weird. That's 20.
Matt: 20 hits.
Taliesin: I'm also gonna blow through most of Cabal's Ruin, 'cause that's funny. I know, I say that a lot. So that's standard damage, is 15 points of damage, plus where is--
Marisha: 1d4 plus four... 1d6 lightning damage per charge expended.
Taliesin: Okay, 1d6 per charge. You know? Let's end this. Should we just end this?
Marisha: That's good. Lightning's bad for water. Not that I'd know.
Taliesin: I figured it would be. I'm just gonna blow eight of the charges, so do you have five more--
Marisha: Yeah, I do. Five more, of course. Dream come true, make it happen.
Laura: If this doesn't end it...
Taliesin: So plus (counting) 23 points of lightning damage on top of that.
Matt: Okay, so as you bring Bad News down and aim across the way, fire the bullet, it blasts across, and you guys see this glow of electrical energy that just shoots through the air, the bullet enhanced by the Cabal's Ruin vestige enchantment. As it blasts into the side of the elemental, the elemental gets blown back through the air, and as it does, it just vaporizes. (all cheer)
Marisha: Is that everyone done?
Matt: All the enemies currently seem to be not on the ship, or dragging behind. However, (creaking noise)
Taliesin: I'm going to stop, I'm going to wave, and I'm going to go walk over and start looking to see if I can see what that glow is. I'm going to deactivate this, because I want to loot this ship.
Matt: Okay. Make a perception check.
Taliesin: Ooh, that's better. That's 25.
Matt: 25. You glance in the side, and you see now, there is a singular small palantír-type orb, but smaller, that is a foggy gray color on the inside that's slowly swirling, and you can see it's gathering condensation and mist around it.
Taliesin: Does there seem to be any mechanism for turning it off or otherwise?
Matt: It looks like it's just embedded into it.
Marisha: Take it with us, take it with us.
Taliesin: I'm going to at least try and pick it up, and--
Matt: Make a strength check.
Taliesin: Okay.
Liam: While he's busy, I'm gonna jet over next to Keyleth.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Oh, are we in combat rounds?
Matt: We're going to stay in order for a second.
Liam: Oh, okay.
Matt: There is a bit of a--
Taliesin: That's adorable.
Marisha: That's sad.
Taliesin: Three.
Matt: (straining sound) You feel something pop in your back shoulder, and your right arm gets a little numb.
Taliesin: That's so mean. (all laugh)
Liam: It's like when you just reach out to pick up something--
Marisha: Yeah, you never know. Getting old, man.
Taliesin: There's no way to--
Matt: As you go over to it, you see it's there, but it's currently held in place by something that's beneath the orb, or at least it's either adhered or glued to or held there, you just don't have the strength to lift it.
Taliesin: There's gotta be a way to turn this off.
Matt: So that's your turn.
Marisha: I shout to--
Matt: It's Grog's turn, actually.
Marisha: Sorry.
Travis: I go over to the harpoon hook, and like, fuck this harpoon hook. Can I try and get it out of the ship with my strength?
Matt: Sure, go ahead and roll a strength check. With advantage, because you are raging.
Travis: Hey. 25.
Matt: One-handed.
Laura: Hey!
Matt: (tink, fwoomp) And it just flies out of your grip from the tension out of the ship. You have to pull your hand back 'cause the-- one of the giant gnarled edges of it almost take your arm off in the process.
Travis: (gasp)
Laura: You almost lost that gauntlet!
Matt: It tears a section of the edge of this boat off. Just the railing on the side kind of pulls through it immediately.
Travis: I'll pay for that.
Matt: Trinket has to pull off to the side and the one guy kind of backs up immediately as it shoots off into the water below. For you guys, the ship, now that it doesn't have the tension to the side, is now capsizing very quickly and turning on the side.
Taliesin: Oh, god.
Travis: I feel like I did something bad.
Marisha: That was cool!
Travis: Oopsie.
Matt: Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: I say  Hey guys! Cruises are really trashy! (laughs)
Travis: Jokes while you're doing that.
Marisha: And I still have Control Water going.
Liam: Tip your waiters.
Marisha: Can I flush out the bottom of the cruise ship and bring whatever treasure is up out of the bow with what water is there? Just kind of (whoof)?
Taliesin: Like a spigot.
Matt: You're kinda off to the side. You can look down, it's not very well-lit on the inside at all. Like, it is not lit on the interior. You do have your elven darkvision for a few feet, so you have to glance over and look into the room below, but right now all you're seeing is seafoam and ocean pouring into the side of the ship.
Marisha: Okay, I stop sinking the boat. Because we're not dying.
Matt: Okay. The ship is still sinking. You filled it with water, and currently the side of it has been blasted twice.
Marisha: I bring the water up like a fountain of wealth and youth. Just coming up. Out of the bottom. (all laugh)
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Wow.
Marisha: Just other way.
Liam: Oh, boy!
Marisha: Seeing what comes out from the bottom of the ship.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Hopefully not dead bodies or like--
Taliesin: (sings) It's rainin' men...
Laura: I know, if there were slaves--
Marisha: Slave trade or something sad-- yeah, like slave.
Laura: Fingers crossed. Let's not do that to Keyleth.
Marisha: Oh, come on!
Travis: It's just kids!
Marisha: He's looking at his notes like it's a thing!
Travis: It's just kids.
All: (laughs and groans)
Travis: Kids and puppies!
Marisha: That's my worst nightmare!
Matt: You're terrible!
Travis: Kids and puppies!
Liam: Gosh!
Matt: Okay, so as the water comes rushing up from underneath, you see a lot of genuinely soaked food items come shooting up, large chunks of broken wood, what appear to be additional iron ballista spears.
Marisha: Oh!
Matt: And lots of chain come firing up from the inside.
Marisha: Watch your head! Points!
Matt: Furniture, chairs, occasionally (water sound effects) just pieces of broken things from the interior. You're not seeing much else than that at the moment.
Marisha: Aw. These were lame pirates! No treasure.
Taliesin: Let's get the orb at the very least.
Matt: (sarcastically) Good pirates keep all their treasure on their ship at all times.
Marisha: Lame! (all laugh)
Liam: Just hundreds and hundreds of NES classics.
Laura: We really should've kept one of them alive.
Travis: Do you wanna check the captain's quarters before it all goes down?
Laura: Yeah! What if there's a map to treasure?
Liam: (sighs) Looks like it's going down pretty fast, though, yeah?
Travis: Those of you on the boat--
Taliesin: Doing it now-- yes, we want to it now while there's an order of operations based on a die roll!
Marisha: I have control! I have control!
Matt: Taryon!
Sam: Yes?
Matt: Anything you wish to add to this circumstance? You're now soaking wet, but your winged savior has lifted you down onto the edge of the ship.
Liam: (ting)
Taliesin: (sings) And I would do anything for love.
Sam: How many of you can fly?
Liam: Two or three, give or take.
Sam: Amazing! Incredible! Stupendous! No, I have nothing to add, other than-- do you need my assistance in cleaning up any of these ruffians? Oh, also, one question.
Liam: Yeah?
Sam: Did I hurt the beast?
Liam: Man, you did great! You knocked that guy clear off!
Sam: Really?
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: I killed it!
Liam: That's a good start, man.
Sam: What was it?
Liam: What was it?
Sam: Yes!
Liam: Oh, you need to ask the white-haired one. I dunno.
Sam: Okay!
Taliesin: Oh, that's me!
Sam: Was it bad?
Liam: The worst!
Matt: All right, so you spend your turn conversing.
Liam: Yes.
Sam: Pretty much!
Liam: Six seconds of dialogue, right there!
Matt: All right, we'll say for the pace of things here, guys, the ship is maybe 30 seconds from fully sinking into the water. Anybody you guys wanna--
Laura: 30 seconds?
Liam: I'm gonna do what I said before, and I'm gonna go and land next to Keyleth.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: See if we can grab the orb. I'm gonna run downstairs and see if I can see paperwork in the captain's quarters or anything-- or run in the captain's quarters and just do a massive loot, really, just as quick as I can.
Matt: Investigation check with disadvantage. The room is currently tilted pretty heavily, and everything has slid and collided onto one side of the room. It's just a giant pile of broken furniture.
Marisha: I said I balanced it out and that I'm kind of doing that.
Travis: You want me to jump over there and go get the orb?
Laura: Yeah!
Marisha: We also kinda put a bunch of holes into the side of it.
Matt: Yeah, there are a bunch of holes in the ship--
Marisha: So I can only do so much.
Matt: Your Control Water can localize some cool effects, but overall the ship itself has taken too much damage.
Travis: Can I use my boots of Feral leaping to leap from one ship to the other?
Matt: Sure, make an athletics check.
Laura: I want to fly down and help Percy investigate. If there's time.
Liam: We're pretty flush already. Let's make it quick.
Taliesin: Well, there might be something magic. Okay. My investigation check is 19.
Matt: 19 with disadvantage?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Nice! All right, pulling from the inside and rummaging through, you find--
Taliesin: Any papers I'm just gonna grab.
Matt: Yeah, you grab whatever papers you can, there's a small leather tube, you grab that. Looking about inside, there's a ring of keys. You find a bunch of scattered coins throughout the room. It looks like there was a couple of small chests that just opened up and--
Taliesin: I'm looking more for magic, I don't care about gold-- magic or weird.
Matt: Right.
Taliesin: Catch the eye. Are the keys, like--
Matt: They look like some sort of opening device, yeah.
Taliesin: Oh, no. Okay, yeah, I'm gonna grab them anyway.
Matt: Okay. So you grab the keys. Cool. All right.
Travis: 22. To jump across.
Matt: To jump across, okay. So you make it across, and you try and go underneath now. The ship, now, not only is it listing to one side, but it's starting to lift up a little bit.
Marisha: I try to balance it as much as I can.
Matt: So you're slowing the process. Slowing it.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: Make my way to the orb. Rip it out.
Matt: The ship is also slowly moving behind the other ship, as it's no longer maintaining speed. All right, so what are you doing?
Travis: I'm trying to make it to the orb that he was too weak to pull out--
Matt: Strength check.
Taliesin: I hope you pull something in your knee.
Travis: Hah! 25.
Taliesin: God damn it.
Matt: (popping sound)
Travis: I got it! Throw it in the water?
Taliesin: No! Let's keep it, let's bring it to the other ship.
Marisha: Put it in the Bag of Holding, Grog.
Travis: In the Bag of Holding.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: And I run, and I try and jump back to the other boat.
Matt: Make an athletics check.
Travis: I'm not gonna make it, but--
Laura: You might.
Liam: You might.
Travis: 23.
Matt: Five, ten, 15, 20... You catch the edge and are dangling on the side of the ship as your fingers are right there.
Liam: Looney Tunes!
Travis: (breathing hard) I'm good.
Sam: You could have flown.
Travis: I swallowed the coin.
Matt: Percival, water is now starting to spill in underneath you, and you're now about knee-deep inside, and everything's-- all the papers that you haven't already grabbed are soaked and floating up at the top.
Taliesin: I'm gonna run out. There's-- oh, man. I don't hear anything coming from down below, do I?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: Did you ever hear that I wanted to go help Percy investigate, was I able to do that?
Marisha: Please tell me I didn't kill someone innocent again.
Matt: Yeah, you could fly over. Because you're behind him. As you rush in to help him, he has a couple armfuls of things, the room is now about knee-high with water and is tilting heavily to this side, and there's just floating bits of paper and soaked books and pieces of broken wood and furniture-- the room is utter chaos.
Laura: Anything interesting?
Taliesin: Yeah, I don't know. Hold on. I'm gonna listen for it.
Marisha: Hopefully no innocent people.
Taliesin: Perception check.
Sam: (muffled) Help me, I'm an orphan!
Taliesin: You're terrible. 17.
Matt: 17? You take a listen. Through all the splashing of water, the sound of wood creaking, and the ocean outside, you don't hear anything.
Laura: What are you listening for?
Taliesin: I show the keys. I'm worried there's a cage down there. I still have the spider boots, so I'm holding on.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Can I hear anything with my elven ears?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Taliesin: You've got an elven perception check.
Liam: They're taking the hobbits to Isengard.
Laura: What do your elf eyes see? Oh, nothing.
Liam: It was a one.
Laura: It was a one.
Matt: Okay, yeah. You go down and listen, and as soon as you do the water splashes up into your ear, and you get a bunch of salt water in the ear canal. Up in your nose a bit. You're like, ugh.
Laura: That was awful. We should get out.
Taliesin: I'm gonna hand her a bunch of stuff, including some of my things, and be back-- I'm gonna try and see if I can just--
Matt: Spider-boot down.
Taliesin: Spider-boot and see if I can hold my breath and look.
Laura: Don't drown, Percival.
Taliesin: I'm gonna grab, and try and use the lenses on my mask to even get a clear shot of what's under there.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: And I'm just trying to visualize with the last ten minutes that I have of Control Water to clear the bottom of this passage.
Matt: So you can do that. You can prevent, slowing the sinking, to part water.
Marisha: The rushing-in, that's what I want to do. I wanna part right where Percy's heading.
Matt: Okay. As you do that, the ship begins to list even further back and at an angle, and you watch as the front of it comes upward, and everything on the ship begins to slide past--
Travis: Yes!
Matt: -- in the direction of Keyleth and Vax.
Marisha: Sorry, physics.
Liam: Get off!
Matt: Can I have you both make dexterity saving throws, if you could.
Marisha: What, me too?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: Jesus F. Christ.
Matt: A bunch of barrels just (rolling sound) in your direction.
Marisha: Oh, that's not too bad. Just straight dex saving throw. Plus five.
Liam: Natural 20.
Marisha: What did I roll? 16.
Matt: Okay, yeah, you both manage to just sidestep out of the way as they tumble past and splash into the water below.
Taliesin: Get out of here, you two!
Matt: You're starting to lose your footing a little bit. You probably have one more round before you just start sliding off the edge.
Liam: Let's go, man!
Marisha: Quick, quick, quick!
Taliesin: I'm fine. Vex is here, you two leave.
Matt: Percival. Perception check, as the water separates in the room.
Taliesin: Yeah. That's what I'm hoping for.
Marisha: Aw, you rolled a 19!
Taliesin: That's 26.
Matt: Okay. As you push down into the chamber with the walls of the water to the sides-- as you look down, and most of the furniture that was thrust up out of this area is cleared out. You do see two cages in the far back, one of which is empty. The other one does seem to have some sort of humanoid inside.
Taliesin: I'm going for it.
Marisha: Come on.
Matt: Okay. You rush up to the cage, and you look inside and you can already see what looks to be a slumped-over humanoid. You see no features, and there's no light down here, and your human eyes don't make out a lot of detail. The fact that you rolled so high-- it's only the little bit of light comes down here that's reflecting around.
Laura: Shit.
Taliesin: I've already got the keys in my hand and I'm just going to start going for it.
Matt: First key, nothing. Second key, nothing. Third key, noth-- (creaking sounds)
Sam: Cut the red wire!
Matt: Water begins to pour in from another side, and the ship itself is pulling back. I want you to go ahead and make an intelligence check.
Marisha: Come on, Percy. Come on.
Taliesin: I'm going to choose to use a Resolve. That's a save, isn't it?
Matt: That's for a saving throw.
Taliesin: God damn it.
Travis: Why didn't you roll the snitch?
Matt: What did you roll?
Taliesin: I rolled a one.
Matt: A natural one. You start getting the keys in, and there's probably a good 15 or 16 or so keys on here, and you get through about six of them before the ship itself has gone into a fall, and the cages begin to slide--
Taliesin: Okay, I'm rolling. There's someone in there, but I can't get it! And I'm going to spider-climb on the upside, on the wrong side of the wood and stay out of the water and crawl out.
Liam: Was he under water, or was the water--
Matt: The water is being parted by Keyleth, currently.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: The cage is beginning to slide now, towards the back of the ship.
Taliesin: I don't know what to do. And I'm running out, I don't know what else to do.
Matt: Okay, so.
Marisha: What?
Taliesin: There's someone in a cage. I don't know what to do!
Liam: I'll fly at that.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Are you going? I'm gonna try whatever last bit of Control Water I have to try and part and calm the waters where Vax is going, and I say, go Vax, go!
Matt: Okay, so you just fly in?
Liam: If there's a cage, I'll go to it.
Matt: As you rush down inside, you watch as these two large, heavy cages are tumbling in your direction. An empty one slams just past you, and the other one slams into that, itself turning up a bit, and something inside slumps to the side of the bars.
Marisha: I'm trying to calm the water as much as I can.
Liam: Can I even see the lock or where the keys were?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Liam: All right.
Matt: The keys you do not have. Percy has--
Taliesin: I have the keys, but none of them were working.
Liam: That's a 21.
Matt: 21. You manage to, as you leap up using your wings in little bursts-- this is a small, enclosed space, you can't use too much of the air to fly. In what little bit of parting of the water's being done, you catch up and climb onto the top, and you can see the cage has turned on its side, and the doorway is on the top. So you can see the actual lock.
Liam: All right. While I'm hasted, do I have an action left to get up there and pick it?
Matt: I'd say yeah.
Liam: Yeah? Okay.
Laura: Go, go, go!
Marisha: Go, go, go!
Liam: 32.
Matt: You reach out and pull out your picks, and as you look up-- Keyleth, at this point you're parting the water, but the ship is now sinking, and you are-- you're sliding off.
Taliesin: I grab. Can I make a jump to grab?
Matt: You can. Go ahead and make a dexterity check.
Marisha: And I'm just holding concentration, hoping someone catches me.
Taliesin: My dexterity-- save or check?
Matt: Either.
Taliesin: They're both the same. It doesn't matter.
Marisha: That's good, that's good.
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: Just catch Keyleth as she's about to slide off the edge, and you hold her there. Now, I will not require a concentration check from you, however, you're about to both go under water.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: You're holding her at the edge of the ship. You get the door open. It slams over on the side. And looking down inside, you can see what appears to be a slumped-over, soggy mess of a person. Unconscious.
Liam: Okay, can I keep going here, or--
Matt: Yeah. Grab them, pull them up, fireman's carry--
Liam: And then just try to slowly, messily float him up and out of here.
Laura: I want to go help if I can.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah, there's not much room for flight, it's more like--
Liam: All right, so pull.
Matt: -- leaping through, as you make your way there. You just get up onto the edge as the water goes past both Percy and Keyleth. You guys, your faces just (splash) beneath the ocean water.
Marisha: Yeah!
Liam: I shout out, Twinnie!
Laura: I help, I help, I help.
Matt: You rush down from the broom. He goes and flings the person over your lap, and you take up on the rest of the ship as the boat now is completely submerged. You watch the tip of it just (splash) beneath the water. Bubbling the water up around as--
Marisha: I drop Control Water, switch back to my Alter Self, grab Percy, head back to the boat.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: While this is going on, I'm asking Captain Adella's crew for towels. Could I get a towel? Or some sort of-- I'm really wet, here.
Matt: They're all on the edge of the ship, watching this happen. With one in the crow's nest, keeping an eye out. And they're not paying any attention to you.
Sam: I'm just worried that this will rust if I don't get it dry soon, so if I could get some towels, or maybe someone to fan it off, that would be great. Thank you.
Matt: All right. No response, but you are eager to repeat your question. As you make your way over, Keyleth, you pull Percival-- because both of you guys sink quite a bit below with the ship. As soon as it goes under, it goes under fast, and as soon as you glance up to watch that Vax makes his way out, and you can just see over the surface, you relieve that to start swimming up, and both the two of you-- you release your boots, and begin to make your way to the surface. It takes a moment, and you just get to the cusp of what you can hold your breath, before you both break the surface. Percy takes a deep breath, and you guys eventually swim your way over towards the edge of the boat. The fog, by the way, has begun to dissipate now, and has been slowly doing so since your removal of the orb from the edge.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: As you guys all manage to make your way back onto the surface of the ship, waterlogged and tired, we're going to take a break for the restroom.
Travis: Nice! A fight at sea!
Marisha: A fight at sea!
Travis: We made it off the Titanic!
Taliesin: I fell off a boat.
Liam: This is stupid, Rose! This is stupid!
Travis: This is stupid, why would you do that?
Marisha: Like Battleship, but better.
Matt: So we'll be back here in a few minutes. We do have a Wyrmwood giveaway for you guys in the chat room. Be active in the chat room, just you have to use the phrase 'Wyrmwood', w-y-r-m-w-o-o-d,  in the chat room, once they initiate the actual contest, and we'll come back from the break with the winner. So we'll see you here in a few minutes, guys.
Travis: Yeah! [break]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome back to Critical Role! First off, thank you again to our evening's sponsor, Tor Books!
All: Tor Books!
Matt: For coming out and sponsoring this episode, make sure to check out A Conjuring of Light, the conclusion to the Shades of Magic series is now available. Also, we had a contest in the chat for this fantastic mahogany dice vault by Wyrmwood, the winner is Terrythesortofgamer. (all cheer)
Matt: Congratulations, Terry, we're gonna go ahead and get this signed and shipped out to you ASAP. Thank you all for entering, we'll have more giveaways in future episodes as well as Talks Machina on Tuesday with Brian Foster. Anyway, let's bring it back in.
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: So, having returned to the ship, the fog lifted, and the path before you now clear, the rest of the open, cloudless sky before you, you continued ahead in the southwestern direction towards the Islands of Anamn, which is where Vesrah exists--
Laura: But I wanted to see the prisoner--
Marisha: Yeah, the prisoner.
Laura: -- are they okay? I mean, did I check them out while I was--
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: We're getting to that right now.
Marisha: Let's bring 'em back.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Fuckin', just cool your jets.
Marisha: We wanna talk to him.
Laura: Well, I mean, I had him on my lap as I was flying back. I wanted to make sure they were okay.
Matt: Right, so you come back to the-- as you bring the prisoner down, you lay him down-- and it is a man, early, mid- thirties-ish, maybe looks grizzled, kind of a half beard growing in--
Travis: Kill him.
Matt: -- he is drowned at the moment.
Laura: (gasps)
Sam: Oh, he's dead?
Matt: He's not breathing, he is waterlogged, and even at a quick glance, you can see he has scars all over his body--
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: -- his clothes are tattered--
Marisha: Do I have any residual Control Water left? Yeah?
Matt: I'd say yeah, you're still concentrating--
Laura: I roll him on his side.
Marisha: Can I see if I can pull any water out of his lungs?
Matt: You know what? Make a wisdom check.
Liam: Out come the lungs.
Laura: (vomit noise) And he's dead. Dead dead.
Marisha: That's good! Just straight wisdom?
Liam: He's inside out.
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Straight wisdom?
Travis: What is dead may never die!
Marisha: 21.
Laura: Oh no, you keep scooching back.
Matt: 21!
Marisha: Just straight wisdom?
Liam: What the heck, Laura.
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: So you get down on the low, and you reach out and grab the shoulder, and using the last moments of your Control Water spell, you focus and begin to just siphon the water out of the lungs, and immediately the body kind of convulses, the throat opens up from the outside, and you can see the water just project outward as the chest pushes inward, expelling the rest of the liquid from the lungs. Immediately, (coughs).
Marisha: Vax. Help.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Pat, pat, pat, pat, pat.
Liam: I do pat, pat, pat, except I cast Lay on Hands when I do it.
Laura: Yeah, well, I cast Cure Wounds while that happens, so go fuck yourself.
Liam: Seems oddly competitive at this moment, where we're saving a man's life, but all right.
Matt: What last murmurs of this man's life that remained as he began to fade to the drowning, you both manage to just bring him back from the cusp of death, and coughing profusely over the next 30 or so seconds, turning onto his stomach and gathering himself, taking breaths, spitting out whatever seawater still remains in his lungs, he looks back up at you all, and you can see he has a ragged, mouse-brown hair on top, and it's shorter on the sides around the ear, rather large ears, kind of square jaw but very scrawny, and once again from the tattered clothes and scars all over his body, some fresh, some old, looks like he's undergone a rough recent weeks--
Laura: I feel like we're finding Percy all over again.
Marisha: No shit.
Matt: Kinda looks up at everyone. "Wh-- Where am I?"
Laura: On a boat!
Taliesin: Different boat. Ship.
Liam: Our boat.
Matt: "What do you want?"
Laura: How long have you been in that cell?
Matt: "Who are you?"
Marisha: Sorry.
Laura: We're your saviors.
Matt: He leans back, falls onto his palms a bit, and is just kinda laying back, too exhausted to move away, but trying to just move back a bit.
Laura: Can I insight check him and make sure? I just don't trust anyone.
Matt: Sure. Insight check.
Laura: Ooh, natural 20. Wow wow wow.
Sam: He's a demon.
Marisha: Oh shit.
Liam: It's Hotis, it's Hotis, it's Hotis, it's Hotis!
Laura: Oh it is, it's Hotis, it's Hotis!
Marisha: Oh, I don't wanna fight Hotis on the ocean.
Sam: Guys, feel free to keep--
Marisha: What you got? What do you got, Grog?
Matt: Shove off, Travis.
Sam: Keep tweeting those pick-up lines to @TorBooks. They like 'em. I do, anyway.
Liam: Guys, I'm gonna make a Tor Books run, does anybody want anything?
Matt: Curse you, Travis.
Sam: Grande fantasy novel?
Laura: Don't worry.
Matt: (coughs)
Laura: Your captors have been defeated.
Matt: "Well that's good, eh?"
Laura: You're safe. What's your name?
Matt: He leans forward, sits up and looks at you. He seems to soften a little bit, though he's still guarded. "Thenton Groose. First Mate of the ship Tempest Fang. Yeah."
Laura: Tempest Fang?
Matt: "Tempest Fang. Yeah. It was taken by a bunch of bastards, kept me in that cage for a few weeks."
Laura: Weeks.
Marisha: Tempest Fang-- where do you hail from?
Matt: "Who wants to know?"
Marisha: Keyleth, of the Air Ashari.
Matt: "From around."
Marisha: From around?
Matt: "I'm a businessman of the seas."
Marisha: Not the sailor type, then?
Matt: "Sail a bit."
Marisha: What were you doing on the Ozmit Sea?
Matt: "Making a shipment across to Emon from Issylra, and this group of thugs decided to go ahead and ransack us from the side. Took our ship down and most of the crew. Kept a few of us alive underneath. Seems like I was the one who lasted the longest."
Marisha: From Emon to where?
Liam: From Issylra to Emon.
Matt: "From Issylra."
Marisha: Oh, from Issylra.
Liam: What was your cargo?
Matt: He looks at you for a second, reads you up and down as you step into the conversation. "General goods. Few fancy textiles--"
Liam: Insight check.
Matt: "Some silks, some furs."
Taliesin: Insight.
Matt: Insight check.
Liam: 18.
Taliesin: 19.
Laura: Ooh.
Sam: Oh boy!
Laura: Again, again!
Sam: Lots of whispers, guys.
Liam: Just come sit with us.
Marisha: All the whispers.
Laura: Oh, but do you just wanna hang out over here? 'Cause Travis is just gonna fuck with your shit again.
Sam: Hey, in the future-- Travis, what do you think about this-- don't shake your butt.
Marisha: Yeah!
Sam: That's disgusting.
Marisha: Get it, Levi's, yeah.
Sam: What if we-- here's my pitch. What if we have two tin cans and a string that just goes to Matt, and we can do like one of these things.
Matt: That's a great idea.
Sam: Ah! Ah!
Laura: That would be so cool.
Matt: "Yeah, I'm just-- I'm glad you came along."
Taliesin: Tell me, friend. Why did they keep you alive?
Matt: "That's a good question."
Taliesin: It is.
Matt: "I don't fucking know."
Taliesin: What did they ask you?
Laura: Can we get some food?
Taliesin: I think that's a great idea.
Matt: Immediately his eyes widen--
Laura: I was talking back to Captain Adella or one of the crewmates. Not you, Grog.
Matt: As soon as you do that, Captain Adella goes, "Ah, I don't get food. You get food!" And one of the other crewmates, "Oh, oh right." And he immediately jumps down below the deck.
Sam: I'm gluten-free!
Liam: Well, we saved your life, how else can we help you, friend?
Matt: "Oh, just drop me off at the nearest port you get to, please."
Taliesin: That's going to be a while.
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: "That's fine. That's fine."
Marisha: Have you sailed frequently before? What was your exact duty on this ship?
Laura: First Mate?
Marisha: Oh. Right. He already said that. So, you sail a lot.
Matt: "A fair bit, yeah."
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Any tattoos on him?
Matt: Yeah, actually, a handful visibly.
Taliesin: Any I'd recognize? I was on a boat for quite a while, as well.
Matt: Right.
Taliesin: It was a long time ago.
Matt: Make a history check.
Taliesin: All right. Let's say 18.
Matt: 18? Okay. None of the symbols you recognize, necessarily, however, the arrangement of them-- the placement of them and the general design are not used as-- there's tattoos you could see they're decoration, there're tattoos you could see that are meant as-- they mean something to the person. These tattoos and their placement seems intentionally to intimidate.
Taliesin: Huh. Okay.
Laura: Was he a pirate?
Travis: Mr. Theton Groove, is anyone looking for you right now?
Matt: "I don't think so, my crew went down with the ship."
Taliesin: What was your captain's name?
Matt: He kind of looks over at you, "Wha-- what-- why--"
Taliesin: I was just curious how quickly you'd answer it. It's fine. Carry on. You will be getting food, don't worry, this is not us being threatening, we're just... it's odd finding a man in a cage in the bottom of a terrible ship filled with awful people. That alone makes us like you, but you are a bit weird.
Marisha: That's true. That's all true.
Taliesin: It is true.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: Forgive us, we have to be a bit wary.
Marisha: We've seen a lot.
Matt: "No, no, that's--"
Taliesin: We don't mind if you're disreputable, we just would like to know if you're our kind of disreputable.
Sam: If I may, new companions.
Travis: Oh god.
Sam: When my father would have--
Taliesin: Oh boy, okay.
Sam: -- sort of a cagey individual that he needed to interrogate, he had an employee named The Dog who was a large man, who would come and just squeeze them until they talked. Why don't we just do that here? It seems like it would be much quicker than talking in circles like this.
Marisha: Do you have The Dog with you?
Sam: Well, we have this guy, who's pretty big--
Marisha: Oh.
Sam: -- and I bet he could squeeze--
Travis: I mean, I second that method, but I'm just seeing if anybody else--
Taliesin: I feel like that's deeply premature.
Travis: It's deeply immature. I would never do something like that.
Taliesin: Immature indeed.
Sam: Well, all right.
Laura: Plus he's so frail right now, I'm afraid Grog would just break him in half.
Travis: Probably.
Matt: He is noticeably looking nervously back and forth between Taryon and Grog, and--
Travis: I mean, after all, we saved your life, right? You wouldn't be (yells) hiding nothing, would you?
Matt: "No?"
Travis: See?
Marisha: Honestly, this is how we treat people we like.
Taliesin: God, that's also true.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: "Does anyone have any water?"
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: Oh yes.
Matt: "Fresh water? Oh, thank you." And he pulls it out and just starts drinking thirstily from it.
Marisha: All right. So we've cleared a few things, right? You seem untrustworthy, and broken, so therefore we like you. What else can we learn about you?
Matt: "I don't know what you're talking about. Look, I have business contacts, I can get you paid, just get me safe somewhere."
Taliesin: What sort of business contacts?
Matt: "The sort that I do business with, I told you. We deal in trade across the Ozmit."
Liam: Yeah, I mean, he's shifty as fuck, but it's no skin off my back, right?
Taliesin: No, not really.
Travis: We got any cages on this boat?
Taliesin: Oh, we're not-- we don't need that yet, where's he going to go?
Laura: Do I see any, like, Clasp markings on him at all?
Liam: That question might be great, but I think we're all right.
Matt: Nothing Clasp. Not really.
Travis: Gotta sleep at some point.
Matt: You kinda glance over and look at the middle of his shoulders and his shirt is kind of billowing, and torn. No symbol of the Clasp.
Laura: Those scars on your body. Were they from before you were captured, or after?
Matt: "Some-- both ways. The cages don't really protect very well."
Laura: What were they doing to you?
Matt: "They were just having fun, trying to get information about my company, and, you know. Being general pirate arseholes."
Travis: Sounds fun.
Marisha: And you're sure they were just pirates, yeah?
Matt: "Well, what else are they? Not the most pious men I've ever met."
Marisha: I don't know. I've never met a real pirate until just now.
Matt: At which point, one of the crewmen comes up with a small cluster of biscuits, and hands them over as he greedily reaches out like, "Oh!"
Marisha: Wait, one of the crewmen?
Taliesin: One of ours.
Marisha: One of ours?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: I asked if they would bring him food.
Sam: We asked for food.
Matt: Adella just sent him for food.
Laura: I asked him to bring food.
Marisha: Why is he acting like he's starving?
Laura: Because he's been in a cage for two weeks. They didn't feed him very much.
Marisha: Oh, him, not our crewmate.
Travis: Holy shit.
Taliesin: Oh, okay, I--
Matt: The crewman brought food, and he reached out for it.
Marisha: Oh, sorry.
Matt: That's okay.
Marisha: Sorry, we were confused. Sorry.
Matt: That's okay.
Liam: Can't you see everything around you? It's all here.
Travis: He brings up a plate of biscuits and hungrily starts eating.
Taliesin: Bangarang. Bangarang!
Marisha: I brought you biscuits! (eating sounds)
Taliesin: Congratulations, Peter.
Matt: The crewman's a dick, by the way. Just--
Marisha: Do you want these?
Matt: These are good biscuits, starving guy! To be fair, that is kinda your style.
Laura: Thenton, you will forgive us if we don't give you free rein of the ship while you're on here.
Matt: "Oh no, that's fine. That's fine. I mean, lock me up, whatever you need. Just get me back to land, please."
Laura: We'll promise not to poke you.
Matt: "That's appreciated."
Marisha: So, you said you travel the Ozmit Sea frequently, yeah?
Matt: "Yeah."
Marisha: Have you stumbled upon the island of the Vesrah? The Ashari people of this ocean?
Laura: (laughs) Of the Ashari.
Marisha: Of the Ashari (laughs).
Matt: He says, "If what you're referring to is the Islands of Anamn, we generally steer clear. Too many reefs."
Marisha: Of Omand? Alland?
Matt: Anamn. A-N-A-M-N.
Marisha: Almond?
Sam: Aman.
Taliesin: Joy.
Laura: A--
Marisha: Almond Joy.
Taliesin: Sorry.
Marisha: The Island--
Matt: A-N-A-M-N. Anamn.
Marisha: A-N-A-M-N.
Taliesin: Cluster.
Marisha: Anman. An-amn.
Travis: Well, we should introduce ourselves, at least.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: We are Vox Machina, a travelling group of acrobats, and--
Laura: Defeaters of dragons. No big deal.
Travis: Yep.
Liam: I do Van Damme splits, just as he finishes that sentence.
Laura: Trinket gets up and starts dancing around like he knows what to do, when we say we're performers.
Marisha: And I light up my fire hands.
Travis: We do have two smarter members that are not here, Scanlan and Pike, but maybe you'll see them later if you stick with us long enough.
Laura: She's a sailor, too.
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: "Great."
Sam: Percival, am I misreading the scenario here? Can I please just pour acid on him until he talks to us? It seems like he's holding back, am I misreading, here?
Taliesin: No-- well, sort of-- not really-- sort of. It's complicated. We don't pour acid on people-- well, that's not true. No, that's a lie. We don't just pour acid on people, I feel like that's reasonable to say. We don't just pour acid--
Liam: Context. Context is key.
Taliesin: -- there's usually context involved. Things are complicated.
Sam: I am following your lead. But--
Taliesin: When it is time to pour the acid, we will undoubtedly make sure that you are on the front-- not yet--
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: -- but you're good.
Sam: All right.
Liam: Hey, Captain.
Matt: Adella's behind you guys--
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: -- just kinda watching this whole thing with her arms crossed. One of her crewmates is currently at the helm.
Liam: I mean, the closest place to us right now is our desination, most likely, right? We're not gonna be able to dump this guy before we arrive, do you think?
Matt: "Yeah, no, we got maybe a day and a half travel 'til we reach the islands, so--"
Liam: Oy.
Laura: That's all right, he can stay on the boat.
Travis: We got an extra room for him?
Matt: "We got a-- we can throw him in the brig."
Taliesin: We can make the brig comfortable.
Laura: Yeah. We'll give him food. It's all right, right, Captain?
Matt: "We'll set some of-- one of our men on guard. All right! Pick him up. Throw him in the hole." Two of the crewmen come behind and pick him up, and kind of lean over the shoulder, like, "Ooh, thank you. Thank you very much, all of you." And he gets dragged off down below into the ship.
Liam: Byeee.
Marisha: Bye.
Laura: Captain, have you heard of the Tempest Fang?
Matt: "I've heard a thing or two."
Laura: Oh, really?
Matt: "Yeah."
Taliesin: Is it a pirating vessel?
Matt: "Yeah." (all laugh)
Matt: "I was gonna let him finish his whole diatribe before we had a conversation, but he's one of 18 working companies out of the archipelago, so--"
Travis: I believe it's arch-i-pelago.
Sam: Sea diarrhea!
Travis: Jot this down! (horn noises)
Liam: That was sudden!
Taliesin: And the tension is relieved.
Marisha: So, wait. If he works for one of 18 companies of the archipelago, that means the archipelago has pirates--
Laura: -- 17 other companies.
Marisha: 17 other pirate ships?
Matt: Pirate companies. It's a very-- some of them have alliances, some of them have very, very deep-rooted rivalries, and yeah.
Taliesin: The companies themselves have more than one ship, if I recall.
Matt: Some of them do, depending on the size.
Marisha: Wait, did we just sink one of the other 17 companies of the archipelago?
Travis: Is there any extensive damage to our ship? Are we still pretty good, other than the railing getting ripped off?
Matt: "Looking around, my crewmen tell me we're doing all right. So we'll do some repairs when we drop off at your location. Once you do your business, we'll have some time to go ahead and do a once-over of our ship."
Taliesin: I may have some charts that I stole from the other ship, as well.
Laura: Oh, yeah. I put them in the Bag of Colding for the time being. Pull it out.
Matt: Okay. Glancing about, a lot of them are maps of portions of the archipelago, the Hespit Archipelago, some are markings of various pirate headquarters, various places of parlay. A lot of them are waterlogged and soaked and damaged, but you can see elements that are-- a lot of them are hand-drawn notes in sections. The leather tube that you found, you pull it open, and there is a very, very immaculate piece of vellum paper that appears to have a number of glyphs scrawled across it.
Laura: Shit. Do we understand?
Sam: May I see that?
Taliesin: Sure.
Sam: I will Identify it.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: What? (all cheer)
Sam: Much easier this way.
Laura: That's great! You can Identify things? How many times a day can you do that?
Sam: I think all? Scroll of Programmed Illusion. Scroll allows an arcane caster to use an action to cast the sixth-level spell Programmed Illusion. If the spell is higher-level than the caster can use, they must make a spellcasting blah-blah-blah-blah-blah.
Laura: Are you an arcane user?
Sam: I think I am.
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Is this basically like the thing in Superman 2 where Lex Luthor's playing chess--
Travis: In the prison cell?
Matt: Kind of?
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: You have to look up the spell for the specifics, but yeah, it's got some interesting uses.
Sam: Are you arcane?
Laura: So basically it's you. You can use it.
Sam: Am I the only arcane?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Yes, I'm a natural caster. You're the only arcane caster.
Laura: I mean, hold on to it in case we run into Scanlan again.
Travis: I am a powerful magician.
Laura: Or you can use it.
Travis: And with that, I take out the little gem thing that I pulled off the other ship.
Sam: Ooh! Should I Identify that?
Taliesin: You should Identify it.
Marisha: You should.
Sam: Can I, more than once a day?
Matt: Look at the ability. It's the spell-- I gotta look.
Sam: It's the Identify spell.
Matt: Yeah, it's a first-level spell.
Marisha: All the papers. All the papers in the world.
Taliesin: I imagine you're sitting here going--
Matt: It's a first-level spell, so as long as you have a first-level spell slot.
Sam: Oh.
Laura: Oh, I have a spyglass, I didn't even need to ask for Captain Adella's.
Sam: It's a ritual, though, is that--
Matt: Oh, yeah, if you can use it as a ritual, then it won't use a spell slot when you do that.
Marisha: You just do it, it just takes time.
Sam: All right. I will ritually Identify that. What's that all about?
Matt: That is a fog marker. It can be used by holding it a round, but it is generally used to create a 100-foot-wide fog cloud that lasts for an hour when used.
Sam: Do we know how to activate it?
Matt: To activate it, you have to spend a ten-minute period of time concentrating on the orb, and then as it gets moved, it carries the fog cloud with it and lasts for an hour.
Laura: That's cool.
Sam: Could be useful.
Laura: Super useful.
Taliesin: At the very least, it could be installed in the ship. They could have it as a possible--
Sam: Cloaking device?
Travis: You could put it in the guts of Dottie.
Sam: Doty.
Travis: Yep.
Laura: Deedee?
Marisha: Could you do that?
Taliesin: I don't know. It's not like he's hollow.
Marisha: In Doodie?
Sam: I mean, he's got a lot of stuff in there.
Travis: But that's not important, that stuff in there.
Liam: What kind of stuff?
Taliesin: Things.
Sam: You know.
Liam: No.
Sam: When you have two wheels and some ropes and it makes a pulley system--
Travis: Okay, no, just give it back to me, I'll put it back in the Bag of Holding.
Sam: All right.
Travis: Thanks.
Taliesin: How big is the orb, out of curiosity?
Matt: The orb is maybe seven-inch diameter. It's about that big.
Taliesin: All right.
Marisha: It's seven-inch--
Matt: Yeah, it's about that big.
Taliesin: Interesting. All right.
Matt: So the ship is still progressing in that direction.
Marisha: Can I do a nature check on it? On the orb?
Matt: To? What do you want to do with the nature check?
Sam: To see if it smells like nature.
Marisha: Did it come from any Water Ashari, or anything like that? (all laugh)
Travis: What?
Matt: Roll a nature check.
Sam: Are you my brother? Are you my brother? (all laugh)
Marisha: 14?
Matt: It looks like a magic item.
Marisha: That's awesome. That's cool.
Taliesin: Does it have smoke inside when you turn it?
Matt: Yeah, when you turn it--
Taliesin: Like those weird balls filled with weird sand--
Matt: Yeah, actually, it kinda looks like that. As you shift it, it swirls on the inside. It causes the air-- intense condensation that eventually drips from the outside of it when it's activated.
Laura: Cool.
Marisha: (laughs) Outlook cloudy.
Matt: All right. So as everything rests down in the ship you can use, you have about a day and a half travel until you're supposed to reach the islands.
Travis: Can I post up outside of the brig where stabbed-in-the-body McGee is sleeping?
Matt: Yeah. And as he--
Travis: I'll forego my room. I just want to sleep sitting up.
Liam: Do we have rooms? I thought it was like Amex City on this--
Laura: No, we have rooms. But they're combined.
Matt: Yeah, they're clustered, you have many people per room. They're like bunks. So yeah, you post outside of the brig. As evening comes, the night passes. Is there anything you want to do? You just rest for the night?
Travis: Yeah, just keep the other guard company.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Just to give him a little expert help.
Taliesin: We've been tinkering on the ship, so.
Matt: What have you been tinkering?
Sam: Science-bro stuff.
Taliesin: Science-bro stuff. Do we have to tell you what it is?
Matt: To tinker it, so I can give you a DC, yeah.
Taliesin: So he's got this really cool--
Matt: "We tinkered something really cool. Did it work?" Sure, it succeeds. "We built Voltron."
Taliesin: You were very cagey about knowing what it is while we were on break, so I didn't know if this was a thing.
Sam: So, using one of the opals from my Helm of whatever, Brilliance, he wanted to craft a housing for it--
Taliesin: So I've built a couple housings for these opals. So, you pop the opal in, and it will allow it to create either a concentrated beam--
Sam: Spotlight.
Taliesin: Spotlight, basically, like a little flashlight, a radiant beam like a torch--
Marisha: Floodlight.
Taliesin: Like a floodlight, or while it's on spotlight, it's got a little railroad thing, it's got a little slot that will go in and give me a little bit of a red vibe, so we can have a low-light red light, and I'm also going to make a little clip so I can stick it on my gun, so I can have a little spotlight on my gun when we're going through a--
Liam: It also ensures you cannot get a prom date.
Taliesin: Hey, I'm doing okay, just saying. Percy doing okay.
Laura: I don't know, you've been tinkering a lot lately.
Matt: Okay, so that's doable. The opal doesn't perpetually glow--
Sam: Yeah, it lasts for an hour. Is that something we can turn off and on and it lasts for an hour, like a battery, or is it just an hour, it's off--
Taliesin: And then we have to pop a new opal in.
Matt: Generally, you have to pop a new opal in.
Sam: Okay, no problem.
Taliesin: But you crack the opal, you put it in, it's like one hour of either flashlight, and then a little blinder to turn it on and off-- it's basically like a little train lantern.
Marisha: I was gonna say, like an old-school lighthouse.
Matt: Go ahead and roll a tinker check.
Taliesin: Doing this together?
Sam: Can I help him?
Matt: Yes, you would be giving him advantage as you attempt to do that. So you just roll it twice, Percy.
Taliesin: That was pretty good.
Sam: Did we get two 16s?
Taliesin: I got a 19.
Sam: Oh. I got a 16, but I get plus ten with my tinkerer's tools.
Taliesin: And mine's proficiency bonus and dex bonus on top of that 19? So that's 30.
Matt: Between the two of you guys, it is not an issue. Even with your limited materials, but your travel-tinkering capabilities-- you manage to deftly create this seamless, beautiful, you could sell it on the street.
Taliesin: So they can-- we may even make a little headband so they can pop it on.
Sam: Sure, sure.
Matt: (laughs) You guys are so cute. All right.
Marisha: I spend my evening reconnecting with Vax.
Matt: Okay. (all laugh)
Sam: The Hallmark card way of saying fucking.
Taliesin: Well, there goes our sponsor by Hallmark.
Matt: Yeah, thanks. Sorry, Hallmark.
Liam: It's a couple days-- we've been traveling for a while, right?
Matt: It was three days before this encounter, you have a day and a half left.
Liam: And has a day passed since that fight?
Laura: No.
Liam: No, this is that night?
Laura: This is that night, yeah.
Matt: This is the evening afterward.
Taliesin: I'll see if I get my charges back.
Marisha: I don't want to say I feel like I'm being replaced. You know? It's not that. It's just that Percy's kinda found a new friend.
Liam: You're losing some friends.
Taliesin: We're not hanging out all the time, we're being social.
Marisha: No, it's not that. I'm a good friend, right?
Liam: Oh hi, Percy.
Sam: I was going to say we're being social.
Taliesin: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. You guys aren't there. I got distracted.
Matt: No, you guys are busy tinkering. You two are having a conversation where Vax is trying to console Keyleth's sudden friendship crisis.
Sam: Oh! Oh! You've got a little smudge right there.
Marisha: I mean, I know I can't--
Liam: You're missing your friendo time, I understand. (all laugh)
Marisha: I can't fulfill every need.
Liam: We hear them laughing from their room. (all laugh)
Taliesin: (snorts)
Matt: It is a very thin wall.
Travis: Yes, snorting.
Sam: And it was the metric system!
Sam: (exaggerated laugh) (all laugh)
Taliesin: (exaggerated laugh) (all laugh)
Marisha: I will never know what the metric system means. I don't know what that is.
Liam: They're both, you know, really special and--
Marisha: I'm still a good friend, right? I'm still a good friend?
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: Am I a good friend?
Liam: Yeah. You're his best friend.
Marisha: All right.
Liam: Yeah, that's just new--
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: -- and those two have never met--
Marisha: No, I know.
Liam: -- a nerd as pure as the other.
Sam: (laughs)
Marisha: I know I told them to like, bond but now-- I mean (sighs). No, it's fine, it's fine. I'm cool. I'm cool.
Liam: You're more than cool.
Marisha: I've missed you.
Liam: (chuckles) Hi.
Marisha: Hi. (crying sounds) (all laugh)
Liam: I dry the tears away. Do you know--
Marisha: (tearfully) New guy and the new guy dynamic! And I don't know what the new guy's chemistry's like!
Liam: Do you know what's really cool, though? We're not on the verge of death every fucking day right now.
Marisha: (tearfully) That's true.
Liam: Yeah, you know, pluses and minuses.
Marisha: (tearfully) I'm glad the new guy's the worst of our problems. (all laugh)
Liam: Come here, you.
Marisha: (tearfully) I just love Percy so much.
Liam: I know, I know.
Matt: Aw.
Liam: I know.
Matt: An evening of consoling and the rest of you guys get your evening's rest, you outside the brig, uneventful.
Laura: I did want to talk, but that's okay.
Taliesin: I get that.
Laura: I can talk later.
Matt: Oh, did you want to talk? Go for it. Go for it.
Travis: (burps)
Liam: Go interrupt the party.
Laura: Yeah no, I was going to. TALIESIN; Well, I was going to say, you're welcome. We're finishing up, you're welcome in.
Marisha: (sobs)
Laura: Oh! Only when you're finishing up.
Travis: Ooh.
Taliesin: Well, I don't know when you were-- We obviously did it.
Sam: We built our--
Taliesin: I love that so much, it's so--
Travis: Wow, wow.
Liam: Did it?
Taliesin: Yeah, we put the whole thing together.
Liam: Put the whole thing?
Taliesin: The whole thing put together.
Matt: Phrasing.
Liam: Sure, yeah.
Marisha: Man, you're going for it. (all laugh)
Matt: You hear, as you guys are finishing up, you hear a knock at the door.
Travis: Cleaning up your--
Laura: Hello?
Taliesin: Yes! Come in.
Laura: Is it filled with smoke in here?
Marisha: (laughs)
Laura: Oh, hi Tary. I didn't see you.
Sam: We were welding.
Laura: Fun! Exciting! On a boat, even. Wow.
Taliesin: It's relatively safe.
Laura: So! What'd you make?
Taliesin: (sighs) Can I crack one?
Sam: Let's do it.
Taliesin: All right.
Sam: Oh wait, we're using one?
Taliesin: We're using one.
Sam: All right, sure. Why not? It's 1000 gold, but okay, sure. (all laugh)
Taliesin: It's his father's money.
Laura: (laughs)
Matt: (crack, dink) As he flicks the opal, it gives off a bright equivalent of the Light spell.
Laura: Oh.
Sam: Daylight.
Matt: Daylight! I'm sorry. This is--
Laura: Oh, shit.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: The power of the sun.
Laura: That's powerful.
Matt: Basically, there's a sun in the room suddenly (crackle).
Taliesin: Wait.
Laura: Oh wow, you guys made a--
Matt: You're literally blinded for a moment.
Taliesin: (laughs)
Matt: Your eyes just go (crackle).
Taliesin: We put it in the box, contain it.
Sam: Well, wait, open it just a little bit.
Taliesin: All right.
Sam: And then I'm gonna take my Helm of Brilliance and just put one of the diamonds up to the laser beam like light coming out so it makes like a dazzling light across the--
Laura: Wow.
Matt: It's a beautiful prism, which you're able to see in about 40 seconds. (all laugh)
Laura: It's a lot, it's just a lot of spots right now, but I'm sure.
Taliesin: Sorry.
Laura: Eventually. Oh! Pretty. Um, get out. You, not you. If you don't mind.
Sam: I don't at all.
Laura: I mean, of course you can stay--
Taliesin: Get out. It's okay.
Sam: I have a lot of dictation to do.
Taliesin: Out, out, out, out, out.
Laura: (quietly) Hi.
Taliesin: And I boot him out. Oh hi, thank god. And--
Laura: So, Percy.
Taliesin: Yes, dear?
Laura: I've been meaning to bring something up to you.
Taliesin: Yes?
Laura: At the risk of bringing up Scanlan again--
Taliesin: Oh.
Laura: Something I'd rather ignore.
Taliesin: Yes, me too.
Laura: When he left, he said something that caught my ear, which was that he heard. He heard Pike and his daughter, calling to him.
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: From the other side. Which is strange really, because when I was on the other side, I don't remember hearing anything. What about you?
Taliesin: Okay. I'm gonna sit down and open up a bottle.
Laura: Busting out the Courage again?
Taliesin: The Courage, I think, is long gone at this point.
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: I'm going for the Tear whiskey, fuck it Take a swing, and I pass.
Laura: Mm.
Taliesin: I was not in a good place, I was-- what I am choosing to describe as great motivation to live a long life. There was pain and sound and I've tried hard not to think about creating words to articulate it, but it was the feeling of being-- it was not pain without end, it felt like pain that would have an end because eventually there would be nothing left of me. I felt consumed. And yes, I heard. It was the only thing I heard. Yes. I know you well enough to know-- trying not to embarrass you, but--
Laura: All right.
Taliesin: -- yes.
Laura: I'm not embarrassed.
Taliesin: Well, I would've, honestly-- I would've never hoped otherwise. You're far too wonderful for an idiot.
Laura: (laughs)
Taliesin: So (sighs), but I'm more hopeful. I'm not quite as fearful of whether-- I'm worrying less about what may happen when I die again and if I'm going to go back there.
Laura: Well, that's good. I would hope he's not waiting on the other side for you.
Taliesin: I hope not either, and--
Laura: What about when you were killed by Raishan?
Taliesin: That was quick. It was fine, but it was quick, so I'm not sure if that means anything yet. I've overthought this quite a bit and I don't know if you care to hear too many of my fears in this direction, but, I do think about it.
Laura: You can always tell me your fears, Percy.
Taliesin: Where do the people I kill go? I know you don't have an answer, I don't have an answer either, but--
Laura: I don't, I suppose it depends on them, doesn't it?
Taliesin: Does it? Or does it depend on me? Or does it now depend on this thing?
Laura: You don't think they were doomed to suffer the same fate that you were?
Taliesin: Maybe. I don't know, maybe I keep feeding it every time--
Laura: Oh no.
Taliesin: I don't quite know how to find out, other than I had a moment where I thought about shooting someone, bringing them back and asking them.
Laura: (gasps)
Taliesin: There was a moment I thought about shooting someone. Well, if it comes to it, it's something I've had in my back pocket as killing two birds with one stone.
Laura: Maybe we can just try that on someone who we already need to kill.
Taliesin: That's my thought.
Laura: Right.
Taliesin: And, I worry about what all of this is doing to us, but at the same time, I have such faith in-- I have such faith in you and Keyleth, and occasionally Grog, and occasionally your brother.
Laura: (laughs) Are you listening?
Taliesin: (laughs) But I'm starting to wonder if this is what all those heroes I read about when I was young, if this is what they felt, is just a lot of getting very comfortable with not knowing and being nervous and wondering if you're really just the villain of someone else's story.
Laura: I'm sure that's how they feel. No one's ever sure they're doing the right thing.
Taliesin: But I did hear you, sorry to-- I did hear you and sorry that I didn't say.
Laura: No, it's all right. Takes the pressure off, really, knowing that you know.
Taliesin: I treasure every minute, and you remind me to not be so serious.
Laura: Yes. So serious.
Taliesin: I'm not saying that you're not serious but-- (sighs)
Laura: (exasperated voice) You can go play with Tary some more if you like.
Taliesin: I'm done with Tary for the evening.
Laura: Great! Then you can play with me! (all laugh)
Taliesin: And crossing the whiskey off the inventory.
Matt: Off the-- yeah.
Taliesin: (laughs)
Matt: All right, as the evening--
Travis: Amazing.
Matt: -- the evening comes to a close, the next day's journey is met with a coming cloudfront, does not appear to be storm-bearing clouds but the clear skies seem to have come to an end.
Marisha: I'm restless in all of my night's sleep as we get closer.
Matt: Mm-hm. As the next day comes to a close, the sun setting, you hear a call from the top of the crow's nest that shouts out, "Land ho!"
Laura: We go running up.
Matt: You guys all catch up and you can see--
Liam: (quietly) You got this.
Marisha: (groans)
Matt: -- just as the last bit of sunlit glow behind the clouds begins to fade into darkness, you see ahead the gentle shape of islands just breaking the horizon ahead, and one by one, little lights (click click click) coming on.
Marisha: I rush to the bow of the ship.
Matt: As you come up to the bow of the ship, you can see at this point now, Captain Adella is starting to shout off to the side, "Keep it all high!" and is currently moving around and you see there are three guys at the front who all have lanterns out and they're watching the water below and they're shouting out, "Five to the right!" and they're giving different degrees and she's navigating through what looks to be a channel of reefs, as you glance over the edge. And you can see there are pathways here, but it looks like a lot of this water is very dangerous water and eventually you get to a point where one of them shouts, "Stop! Stop!" and they immediately throw down the sails and someone throws the anchor off the side and the ship (crunching) comes and slams to a halt as the anchor clicks and you can feel it grinding for a bit as it catches the edge of one of-- it looks like a reef below, but the ship eventually stops as you glance over, there maybe 15 feet away from hitting the edge of a reef. (grinding sound) It stops and the water (whistling) slowly comes to rest as the ship comes to a rest. Looking over the edge, you can see the water maybe about 20 or so feet down with what little bit of light the lanterns have put over, you can see the very top of various reef cliffs and hints of beach shelf beginning to rise up towards this cluster of almost like still fairy lights in the distance, unmoving. Captain Adella comes up to the edge of the ship and goes, "Well, that's about as far as we can get with this ship. My apologies."
Marisha: No, this is fantastic. And I run to the edge of the ship and I shoot a Daylight into the spell and throw a Create Water and make a rainbow over top of us.
Matt: Wow.
Marisha: (tch boom) Ooh.
Matt: So with that (pffff) the spray of vapor in the air of the night sky, the darkness ahead of you that was currently-- the clouds obscuring any sort of starlight, suddenly is showered with a spray of vibrant colors across the entire spectrum, as the vapor slowly cascades around each side of the ship. As it does, a few moments pass and you watch more lights spark open in the distance (puff puff puff puff puff) whatever the source is, you begin to get a clearer view and there you can just barely begin to see the edges of what appear to be a very, very faint outline of a number of buildings all springing up from the water itself.
Travis: (quietly) Oh shit.
Matt: The city is not on one of the islands, the city is in the center of them, there's a triangulation of these land masses and the city itself resides between all three.
Sam: (quietly) Wow.
Matt: Some of the guys in the front of the ship start taking small rowing boats and taking them up and latching them in and setting them off the side into the more shallow waters below.
Marisha: I run past all of them and just jump into the water, not gracefully like before and start swimming.
Matt: Make a perception check. (all groan)
Laura: Oh no.
Marisha: Perception check?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: We're at a reef!
Liam: Don't face-plant on a reef!
Marisha: Fine. Ooh!
Taliesin: There is now!
Liam: I'm on a reef.
Marisha: Oh that's just a dexterity check?
Matt: No, perception.
Sam: Perception.
Marisha: Oh, perception. 28.
Matt: You run to the edge and right as you're about to leap, you look and realize there's relatively shallow reef in the direction you're about to leap, so you kinda turn and (laughs) go at an angle instead and (plop) into the water below.
Marisha: (nervous sounds)
Matt: A second, almost a second after you, the ship (cracks) hits the water below and they start throwing down the rope ladder and you guys are allowed to then step into the rowboat.
Laura: Broom.
Taliesin: Carpet?
Matt: You have the broom. Or carpet if you like?
Marisha: I just start--
Taliesin: I'm gonna get on the carpet and offer it to anybody who likes.
Marisha: Using my cantrips--
Travis: Well, I need the boat 'cause I'm heavy.
Taliesin: What about the boat?
Sam: I want to be on the flying carpet, 'cause that's amazing.
Laura: Trinket will get in a boat with Grog.
Liam: What are you doing?
Laura: No! Trinket's gonna be in my necklace.
Matt: All right. Trinket goes in the necklace.
Laura: Yeah, for a minute.
Liam: Hopping on behind my sister.
Matt: Okay, so your sister, you guys are taking the carpet--
Sam: Yes!
Matt: -- Grog, you're going in the boat?
Travis: I got my own rowboat.
Matt: (laughs)
Taliesin: With a robot. Robot in the--
Sam: Oh yeah! The robot is--
Travis: No. Dottie is not coming with me.
Taliesin: Dottie is coming with you.
Sam: Well, he can come on the--
Laura: No, he can't. It's too heavy. It's too heavy for the carpet.
Taliesin: Doty cannot come on the carpet.
Matt: It's too heavy to go on the carpet.
Sam: I have to stay behind with Doty.
Taliesin: Yeah well, have fun.
Travis: Yep, see you later.
Laura: Get him on a boat. Get on a boat, Tary.
Sam: Is there another rowboat for us?
Matt: They have other rowboats on the side, you can request another one.
Sam: I would like to request another rowboat for Doty.
Marisha: (laughing) A boat for Doty.
Matt: Okay, so as you guys begin making your way, roughly five minutes behind you, as you all are kinda moving forward together via carpet, flight, and her swimming, and Grog strongly pushing his way through, Tary's just impatiently waiting for them to get the other boat off the side of the ship and they're slowly lowering it down, kind of the ropes having to adjust as it goes and you're like (groans). (all laugh)
Travis: I see adventure over this way! Too bad you won't be there to see it!
Sam: I'm missing it, hurry up! (all laugh)
Matt: As you guys begin to approach, Keyleth, your feet eventually hit sand as opposed to treading water, and as you begin to walk up, the water comes past your waist, down to eventually your knees, and that is about as low as it goes.
Marisha: As far as it goes, yeah.
Matt: And looking out above you, you can see this beautiful lagoon that is completely submerged in about a foot, foot and a half of water for a good mile in all directions. And you can see dozens and dozens of these Grecian looking white and green marble structures that rise up out of the water. You can see a series of poles that stand up holding these lanterns that have all been magically set alight to give the city a sort of a glow. You see shapes moving, you see figures shifting out of these buildings and making their way in your direction, and as you're looking at this space in front of you and you guys begin to kind of meet up, you watch as a figure (whoosh) out of the water next to Keyleth. You glance to your left and look down and you see what appears to be a child, maybe about 13 years old, human-like, though his ears come to a bit of a finned appearance. You can see what looks to be gill slits to the side of the neck, and he looks up at you with kind of a tattered, long-stiffened piece of cloth tunic and shorts that end at the knee,and he kinda looks up at you and just kinda smiles with these very, very bright, orange-ish yellow eyes, "Hi."
Marisha: Kaitiaki. And I drop to my knees and drop down and--
Matt: (sploosh) You go face-down into the water.
Marisha: Gah! (heavy breathing)
Matt: Get up and (groans) push the water-- the hair back a bit.
Marisha: And bow again.
Laura: (laughs)
Matt: Okay. "Um... what are you doing?"
Marisha: Sorry, are you the leader-- are you the headmaster?
Matt: "Yes. Yes, I am."
Marisha: Oh! Hi. Uh, Keyleth.
Matt: "Keyleth. " And he reaches out and grabs your hand. "Yulan."
Marisha: Yulan!
Matt: "Leader of the Water Ashari."
Sam: (laughs)
Marisha: I am Keyleth, daughter of Vilya and Korren of the Air Ashari, and I am here to complete my Aramente. And I bow again, under the water.
Matt: (splash) Into the water again.
Marisha: (gasps)
Matt: He shakes his head, you can see now he has these tossed medium-length dreadlocks that shake with his head as he turns side to side, (laughs) He looks up at the rest of you, "So! She yours?"
Laura: Mm. Mm-hm.
Taliesin: More or less.
Matt: "You bad people?"
Laura: Uh-uh.
Taliesin: Nah.
Travis: Not today.
Sam: We're just rowing up. What'd I miss?! Start over, start over! (pants)
Matt: "Is he a bad person?"
Laura: Nah.
Liam: Nah. He's all right.
Taliesin: He's workable.
Matt: "Okay. Well, come with me." And he reaches out and taps you on the shoulder, Keyleth.
Marisha: (gasp) It's just such an honor.
Matt: Come on.
Laura: Keyleth!
Marisha: What?
Matt: He grabs your hand and pulls you up out of the water, and starts running in towards the city, holding you behind him. Just kinda tugging you by the hand.
Laura: Oh, he has legs?
Matt: He does have legs.
Laura: Man!
Taliesin: And he does know how to use them.
Travis: Keyleth!
Sam: (laughs)
Matt: Splash, splash, splash splash splash splash...
Travis: Be cooler.
Marisha: Cooler. Cooler. (blows) And I let a little frost go from my breath.
Matt: (blows) Okay. Splash, splash, splash splash splash splash splash. He's just running through the water. You can see a number of people have now stepped out of the buildings as you guys approach. And each one of them-- all of their clothing ends at the knee. You can see that this entire society walks through and lives partially submerged. There is an ever-present water element to their day to day life.
Laura: They must have the pruniest feet!
Marisha: -- feet.
Matt: (laughs)
Marisha: I know, right?
Liam: (laughs)
Matt: (laughs)
Travis: That was amazing. I would live there in a second!
Taliesin: How did that happen just now? How did you just go there?
Laura: (laughs)
Matt: The sand is soft and still strangely warm beneath your feet, though the night has come. And even through the distant sparkles of light everywhere, this city-- a lot of the buildings seem hollow and open, like what walls that there are, there's large windows. It seems like everything has this very kind of open-air, free lifestyle to it. And as you begin to approach--
Marisha: As he's dragging me, I just start, like, rambling all the questions at once. I'm like, Aren't-- This is such a gorgeous city you have. Are you freshwater or saltwater? Do you have webbed feet? Does everyone have webbed feet? How many people can control water? Wow, look at that. Look at those. Is this fire that you use? Or is it all arcane?
Matt: He's not answering any of your questions, and you hear a voice shout out: "Yulan!"
Marisha: (gasps)
Matt: And the boy kinda stops and drops your hand and backs away with his hands kinda crossed behind his back, and he steps away, bowing his head a little bit and (splashing noise) away. The crowd-- and you can now see, all these different people, most of them appear to be human, elven, there are a handful of dwarves, a couple halflings, it's a spread of races here. You see two half-orcs that have these large tridents off to the side, and they're guarded but they're all deciding whether or not this is a welcoming circumstance, or a careful parlay. The voice that rang out, the crowd parts a little bit, and you watch as the water around you guys begins to spiral into these columns. Each one appears to be similar to the entity you saw rise onto the ship. A series of water elementals begin to rise out of the water, as some of the individuals in the crowd pull their hands together, and then you see four of them rise and begin to circle. Not closing in, but just keeping very close vigil around. And you realize at this point that, while the city is welcoming, they are also a carefully guarded people. The crowd parts, and you see stepping out, with the tiniest of splashes, a very tiny woman. Old, shriveled, most of her hair is gone and these thin wisps of white and gray, a wide oval-like head, the skin itself an olive yellow tint. Very wrinkled and pruny, the eyes are almost these tiny little black beads. Gnome, very old, with a long staff that's twice her height that just kinda with each step (squishing splash) kinda like a weird female Water Ashari Yoda. And just kinda steps forward through the water--
Marisha: Rad!
Matt: "Yulan, you are not to greet our guests! Now, you. What is your name?"
Marisha: Hi. (clears throat) Kaitiaki, I am Keyleth, daughter of Vilya and Korren of the Air Ashari, and I am here to complete my Aramente. I am--
Matt: "Kaitiaki."
Marisha: Kaitiaki. I am honored to be in your presence.
Matt: "I am Uvenda, Heart of the Tides here. I had my own Aramente, long ago. And I knew your mother who came for her Aramente, as well."
Marisha: You knew my mother?
Matt: "She came here for her own Aramente. And now you come to complete what she could not. So--"
Marisha: I'm-- I'm--
Matt: "-- you are welcome, Keyleth of the Zephra."
Marisha: I'm sorry. I'm-- sorry, that just means she visited the Earth, and the Fire, and the Water Ashari. She completed her Aramente.
Matt: "She did not, child."
Marisha: What hap-- She-- I-- Everywhere I've been, she's been. Why not?
Matt: "Come. Come. We shall speak, there is much to discuss, and it is growing cold out here, and you could probably all use a warm fire. So? See to our guests!" And the folks around go from their tense reverie and begin to approach and take, like just instinctually taking your belongings, and helping you unload. You guys (laughs) withdraw, and they back off as soon as they realize that wasn't part of the circumstance. But you are led deeper into this city, and there is a central temple that has multi-layers. Three floors with a number of spiral staircases on the outside of the structure that lead to it. Each floor is still very open and you get the sense that this whole city is built around the flow of ocean air and sea spray. And there is almost like a constant breeze that just blows through. And a lot of the buildings are rounded at the edges. The heavy waves and water that just come through here has-- you can see rounded and brought curvature to all the structures for as long as the city's been around. There are elements of shell-type shapes, there are bits of ocean inspiration to the architecture, it's a very interesting, alien, and beautiful place compared to where you've been before. You're led into this temple structure in the center of this city, you're brought to a series of what look almost like tree stumps, but they're made of a bright, bleached white, almost spongy material. And as you sit on them, food is brought to you, fish, fresh cooked platters. You guys are now being treated like honored guests, as you arrive. As you sit down, Keyleth, Uvenda, has a servant bring a much taller sponged stool than the ones you guys have, and it's set in front of you, and she uses her staff and (grunts) pole-vaults on top of it, and sits, crosses her legs, and sets the staff off to somebody and kinda leans down with her hands in front, her chin resting on them, her little beady gnomish eyes looking down at you. "So, Keyleth, the Aramente is not easy."
Marisha: I know.
Matt: "Do you know what this leg of your journey entails?"
Marisha: I mean, I've made it this far. In my heart, I feel like I'm almost complete, but I feel like you're about to tell me something different.
Matt: "You are near the completion of the Aramente, this is true, and through this, you will learn the strength of utilizing your own capabilities and those of your trusted allies. You will learn various ways of looking at the difficulties and challenges that are before you. And there are lessons as part of this, so listen carefully. For the final leg of your Aramente, we will wait 'til the morning sun comes to these waters, you and your compatriots will be brought down below the waves, below this city, to the Aerie of Torrent, where the Vesrah rift resides to the Water Elemental Plane. The Aerie is where we implant the lodestones that keep the village from sinking, and the rift size contained. The lodestones, unfortunately, do wane in power over time, so we must occasionally cross into the rift, and have our fastest Waverunners recover replacements within the Elemental Plane. The source of the lodestones, in which we have built and maintained this city. But the once-challenging path to these lodestones has now become deadly for all but our swiftest."
Marisha: Why?
Matt: "We would find these stones sparsely scattered throughout the plane, just beyond the rift, leaving us uncertain of their origin for as long as we've been here. For generations, they would just fall and sink to the bottom, or we'd scavenge them from the silt and sand below. However, this last generation of Waverunners have discovered them to be a product. Natural waste of a particular creature that resides within the boundless oceans of the plane. An ancient beast, once guided upon creation by the Titans that claimed this world their own before the gods came and gave light to our souls."
Marisha: What's it called?
Matt: "They are known in many languages, by many names, but the common tongue knows to them as the krakens."
Laura: (yells)
Marisha: (yells)
Sam: (scared panting)
Travis: (excited hyperventilation)
Matt: "Humongous, tentacled beasts, long free of their servitude from their creators. One of these such krakens has taken to the waters near the rift, and made it its home on the other side. And this beast appears to have been producing the lodestones that we relied on for ages. This research, and information they've gathered, however, garnished the attention of this terrible fiend, and was accidentally led directly to the rift where it now nests, and feeds on the other creatures naturally drawn to the energy of the tear between the worlds. We now use the lodestones and our powers not only to control the merging of the planes at the rift, but to also prevent this monstrosity from crossing over into our world and tearing our city asunder. Your task--"
Marisha: So--
Matt: She puts a finger out to stop you. "--would be to descend into this Aerie of Torrent, enter the rift, and recover three of these lodestones, and return to us. That is all. Avoid the beast if possible, for to battle it is folly, and to kill it is to sink our city, and curse the rift, to eventually fade."
Marisha: So, don't kill it?
Laura: Do. Not. Kill. Got it.
Marisha: Don't kill the kraken. Right? Don't kill the kraken?
Travis: No, kill the kraken.
Laura: (laughs)
Liam: Get kraken.
Sam: We can reason with it.
Marisha: Get three lodestones, bring it back, don't kill him because he is responsible for you guys not sinking into the ocean.
Laura: Because he makes the lodestones.
Sam: With his poop?
Liam: Poopstones.
Marisha: He makes the lodestones--
Laura: Basically.
Sam: Poops lodestones.
Marisha: -- with his droppings?
Matt: "Essentially, yes." (all laugh)
Marisha: All right.
Matt: "To use such base terms."
Marisha: All right. So he drops these lodestones at the base of the water plane.
Matt: "Yes. Often found within the vicinity of the rift, but such is the beast. Be quick, be careful, be stealthy, and return as soon as you have them."
Marisha: Do you have an example of these lodestones so that we know what we're looking for?
Matt: "We will show you at the Aerie tomorrow in the morning."
Marisha: All right. So this starts in the morn-- Which is exactly what you said. You totally said that, didn't you?
Matt: "Yes. Yes, I have."
Marisha: All right.
Laura: Is there something that helps those of us who don't breathe underwater breathe underwater?
Marisha: I can handle that.
Laura: Yes?
Marisha: I can handle that. So. What happened to my mother?
Matt: She swallows strongly. "Your mother was a brave woman, very much like you, now that I see you before me. Unsure of herself, and wishing to please, and not disappoint. And it's hard to ascertain but I fear it's perhaps that lack of confidence that may have caused her failure."
Marisha: Did she not make it out? Of the water plane?
Matt: "She brought her own companions, that she had found and brought with her along her path. Our guides brought her to the rift, and her companions did not survive. Your mother did not return, and we sent scouts to try and retrieve her body so she could be interred correctly, but we only found a leg."
Marisha: She's still alive. That means she's still alive.
Matt: "Hold onto that hope. Use it, and finish what she started. She lives through you at the very least. Hold that memory."
Marisha: I will hold on to it, but I hope you know that does not define me. I'm not her.
Matt: "Good. Then perhaps you have a chance."
Marisha: We'll complete your task. Thank you.
Matt: "You've come far, young Keyleth. I have faith that you will rise, and become the Voice of the Tempest. For now, we rest. Eat. Sleep. For tomorrow, you face the pet of the Titans." And that's where we'll leave tonight's session.
Travis: Yeah!
Sam: (scared panting)
Travis: We're gonna kill a kraken!
Marisha: No!
Liam: No!
Laura: No!
Marisha: Kill a kraken!
Sam: No, don't kill a kraken.
Marisha: Right, we're not gonna kill a kraken.
Matt: (laughs)
Marisha: We are going to not kill it.
Taliesin: We are going to irritate a kraken.
Laura: We are going to--
Taliesin: We are going to make it--
Travis: Holy shit!
Laura: -- We're going to steal some kraken's poop.
Travis: I have no idea what that means.
Marisha: We're gonna collect kraken droppings.
Travis: I don't know what a kraken is like in D&D, but I'm fucking stoked to find out.
Taliesin: We're gonna bring a bottle of Kraken.
Marisha: We're gonna bring a bottle of Kraken.
Laura: (laughs)
Marisha: Oh, I'm so gonna bring a bottle of Kraken next game!
Matt: Yeah!
Laura: (excited shouting)
Taliesin: You know what else we're gonna do? We're not gonna finish it.
Marisha: We're not gonna finish it.
Matt: (laughs)
Travis: Yeah, we're not gonna finish it.
Marisha: That's game, we do not finish it.
Matt: That's kind of perfect.
Laura: We're gonna drink most of it.
Liam: (chuckles)
Taliesin: We're gonna drink most of it, but we're not gonna kill the kraken.
Marisha: Except for like one-fourth of it.
Laura: Yeah. TALIESIN. Don't. 'Cause we don't kill the kraken.
Marisha: We let it live.
Liam: We're gonna give that thing some maylox. (proot fart sound)
Taliesin: Don't kill the kraken.
Travis: Nice job, Matt!
Matt: Nice job, you guys.
Travis: Nice C!
Taliesin: Good game. Good game.
Laura: C!
Matt: All right. We'll bring this up next week on Thursday for the last leg of Keyleth's Aramente--
Sam: Hey.
Matt: -- as the party might face a kraken!
Laura: Oh my goodness!
Matt: That'll be interesting.
Liam: One of 17.
Matt: (laughs)
Travis: Yo momma is the kraken.
Marisha: That's what I'm most afraid of!
Laura: Oh my god!
Marisha: I've already thought about it.
Taliesin: Long John Silver!
Travis: Wow. No, no, no, no.
Marisha: That she's the full Long John Silver.
Taliesin: She's gonna go pirate, she's gonna have a patch and a beard--
Marisha: And a peg leg!
Taliesin: -- and a peg leg.
Marisha: She totally has a peg leg.
Laura: Ew.
Taliesin: And like a little cuttlefish instead of a instead of a parrot.
Marisha: (gasps)
Laura: Rad!
Marisha: My mom's a pirate!
Laura: Definitely.
Liam: (singing)
Taliesin: (joins singing)
Marisha: (joins singing)
Sam: That is not the key at all.
Travis: Oh god, get us out of here.
Taliesin: No.
Matt: All righty, guys. (all laugh)
Matt: We'll pick up next week on Thursday. (laughs) Thank you so much for watching. Thank you again, Tor Books, for sponsoring.
Sam: (incoherent background noise) Tor Books, toy boats, Tor Books.
Liam: Tor Books.
Matt: Wyrmwood for being awesome. We're gonna go ahead and rest. Oh, I forgot to mention. I will be on the Rollplay live anniversary game on Saturday. I'm actually flying up to Canada to go play with them in person. So-- (all cheer)
Matt: I'm gonna be jumping in for one episode of the Swan Song series.
Travis: Are you gonna play?
Matt: That will be fun. Yeah! I get to play!
Sam: In Canada?
Liam: In Canada?
Matt: Up in Canada, yeah.
Sam: Each d20 is actually worth 22 up there. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Is that where you have to roll backwards?
Sam: Yeah.
Taliesin: You roll backwards there?
Matt: Yeah, that's how it works.
Marisha: And, as always, don't forget to watch Talks Machina on Tuesday--
Laura: On Tuesday!
Matt: With Brian.
Marisha: With Brian Foster!
Matt: That will be fun.
Marisha: At 7pm.
Liam: Matt's always talking about his campaign up in Canada, I'm not sure if it's real or not. (all laugh)
Marisha: What are you talking about, guys?
Matt: It is real!
Marisha: This is fine.
Matt: It's real!
Laura: Totally real.
Marisha: This is great!
Matt: Anyway. Have a wonderful night, guys. Rest well. Laura, get up early.
Laura: I know!
Matt: I'm sorry. Is it Thursday yet?

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: And welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons. Tonight's gonna be a fun one. But before we jump into it--
Liam: What does that mean? What does that mean?
Matt: I don't know. We ended on an interesting note.
Marisha: I think I just peed a little.
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Do y'all hear that heartbeat in your ears?
Matt: It's weird.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: (heartbeat noise) But before we get to that, let's go ahead and get to our opening announcements. First and foremost, our glorious returning sponsor for the evening, our friends at Loot Crate!
All: Loot Crate!
Matt: Fantastic, awesome people. Sam, is there something you want to talk about?
Sam: Yeah. You know, a lot of my Loot Crate plugs have been comedic, or cute. Some would say clever.
Taliesin: Debatable.
Travis: I don't know if I'd go that far.
Sam: But one thing that has been lacking is a sense of spectacle. Of human achievement. Of record breaking. So tonight I'm going to attempt something that's never been attempted before. I'm going to do the Loot Crate copy read here. While drinking an entire Coca-Cola.
Liam: Oh no.
Sam: And a bite-sized 100 Grand bar, Snickers bar, Milky Way, Twix, another bite-sized Snickers bar, a Reese's Peanut Butter Cup, and a packet of Big League Chew.
Travis: Yes!
Liam: Oh no.
Laura: What? You're going to vomit.
Sam: In two minutes.
Laura: You're going to vomit, Sam.
Sam: Also, all this stuff melted in my car.
Liam: Notice he's got a towel down.
Marisha: That's actually really gross-looking.
Laura: Oh god! He does have a towel down.
Taliesin: This looks unhappy.
Sam: All right. Travis?
Travis: Yeah yeah.
Sam: You got the clock ready?
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Two minutes, can it be done? The answer is no. (laughs) Ready?
Travis: Three, two, one.
Sam: Loot Crate is a curated collection of awesome items from the best pop culture franchises delivered to your door every month. You get the best and most exclusive licensed figures, t-shirts, home goods, and more.
Laura: Oh no.
Travis: You're doing good. You're doing good.
Liam: My god.
Laura: He's going to spew.
Marisha: At least it's a Mexico--
Travis: No, no, don't help him.
Taliesin: Let it happen! Let it happen!
Sam: Don't help me!
Marisha: No, we're good. It's better. It's better.
Sam: This week's crate theme is Primal. Featuring awesome swag from X-Men, Overwatch and Predator.
Travis: 30 seconds.
Sam: Give yourself every month or give the gift of geeking out to a friend or loved one. And if you visit lootcrate.com/criticalrole and use the coupon code 'criticalrole', you'll get 10% off your Loot Crate monthly geek crate.
Laura: Don't do it!
Taliesin: Big League Chew! No god!
Sam: From collectibles [inaudible]. It's like Comic-Con in a box!
Travis: One minute.
Sam: Oh boy! How do I separate the gum from the other stuff? Loot Crate, Loot Crate DX, Loot Gaming, and Loot Anime. How do you want to do this?
Laura: Did you do it? Did he just do it?
Taliesin: No, no, no.
Matt: He's still got more Coke.
Travis: The Coke's gotta go.
Taliesin: Gotta go!
Sam: It can't get in.
Travis: 30 seconds left! 30 seconds left! Work it. Work! Relax the throat.
Sam: Hold on. Not good.
Laura: He's going to kill himself.
Marisha: Don't choke.
Sam: Half left?!
Travis: 15 seconds.
Laura: Sam, get that shit out of your mouth. I'm going to throw up.
Sam: I can't do it! I can't do it!
Taliesin: Don't look!
Matt: 11!
Travis: Ten! Nine! Eight! Seven! Six! Five! Don't stop fighting for it!
Taliesin: No matter what, we're going to think less of you, it doesn't matter anymore.
Travis: Three! Two! One!
Liam: Happy new year!
Travis: That's it! That's it! That's it! Oh my god, that's it.
Taliesin: You get a participation ribbon. Well done.
Laura: That was so fucking gross. Samuel!
Travis: Do we have an ambulance on standby?
Taliesin: Five years from now, your children will be able to Google this. I'm just going to remind you.
Matt: If there was ever a moment in our show that will be giffed and show up on GIPHY, that's it right there. Thank you, Sam. And thank you, Loot Crate, for your fantastic sponsorship.
Liam: I feel like we just passed into performance art, there.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Don't forget to use the code 'criticalrole' for 10% off your Loot Crate monthly geek crate.
Travis: That entire tooth is brown.
Laura: I'm just going to throw up.
Travis: Your teeth are all brown!
Laura: It's so gross.
Matt: I feel like that's an opening act to Gaga's next tour.
Liam: Listen, real art makes you uncomfortable and challenges you.
Travis: The Super Bowl was missing that.
Matt: Consider us challenged and uncomfortable.
Marisha: That made my eyes water and not in a good way.
Travis: There's a part of the back of my head that's cramped.
Matt: Thank you Sam.
Taliesin: I'm no longer thinking about the game. Well done. Yeah, not even thinking a little bit about the game.
Matt: All right.
Sam: I'll take care of this.
Taliesin: Just roll it up and burn it.
Marisha: Do you wanna handle that?
Taliesin: You gonna finish that Coke?
Sam: Oh, yeah.
Matt: It's the only way to be sure. All right, so last week we mentioned this, I wanna tell you guys again: thanks to Qualcomm, Lionsgate, and their new VR experience, and the new upcoming Power Rangers movie, our friends at Nerdist are doing a circumstance where you can win a paid trip to LA to attend the movie premiere of Power Rangers as well as Google Pixel phones and Daydream headsets. It only has one more day, and they wanted to make sure we would let you guys know this for the last day they have going, so be sure to go to nerdist.com/powerrangersgiveaway to learn more about this and enter to win if this sounds like an awesome thing to you. If one of you guys wins, that's great, 'cause then we have just more and more of our community winning everything, which is kind of our long-term plan, so.
Travis: Yes!
Matt: Check it out.
Travis: Take over the world!
Matt: Next up. Merch. Laura, do we have any updates on that?
Laura: (muffled) Aw man, I put food in my mouth!
Travis: What the fuck are you thinking? What're you thinking?
Matt: Quick, drink the Coke! Ten, nine, eight, seven--
Marisha: I have one while she swallows.
Sam: (belches)
Matt: Oh, god!
Travis: The distance on that was incredible.
Matt: My hair went (whoosh).
Liam: Hold on, Marisha. Are you okay?
Marisha: Yeah, I'm concerned.
Liam: Are you okay?
Sam: I'm fine.
Taliesin: Why are we not talking about this?
Marisha: That sounded like something that happens when you're diseased.
Travis: Yeah, I could feel your glycogen spike from over here.
Matt: Marisha, you were saying?
Marisha: This Saturday, it's the two-year anniversary of the twitch stream. (all cheer)
Taliesin: My, how time flies.
Marisha: Yes, isn't that nice? And pleasant? And not disgusting-looking? It's a 24-hour twitch stream. There's gonna be a lot going on. There's gonna be Gather Your Party, AXYB special, there's gonna be Game the Game, and we're going to--
Taliesin: Breaded Men?
Marisha: Bearded Men, not Breaded Men.
Taliesin: Oh, I saw Breaded Men, I was very excited.
Marisha: No, Bearded Men. And we are going to be playing Mansions of Madness, some of us, here. Like around one o'clock.
Matt: And the charity stream is benefiting 826LA.
Marisha: Yeah. Yes. And the whole thing is gonna be charity-related, it's all gonna go to 826LA.
Matt: Our friends there since the beginning.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: So looking forward to that.
Marisha: Yeah, so donate, we're gonna be taking donations, it's gonna be great.
Matt: Exactly. And tomorrow at noon Pacific Time, me and Darren De Paul are gonna be guesting on Eric's TBD RPG, the Doctor Who RPG, from noon to 3PM tomorrow Pacific, and then--
Offscreen: High noon? (all groan)
Screen: High noon? (all groan)
Matt: And. (all laugh)
Liam: Put him in the game so you can kill him.
Matt: Okay, that's a good call. And it looks like we'll also be continuing that game on Saturday before the Mansions of Madness stream, from 11-1. So I'll be here for five hours. Again. On Saturday. But it's gonna be a lot of fun, looking forward to it, I'm excited to go guest on there and play for a little bit, so hopefully see you guys tomorrow and Saturday. Let's see. Laura, now that you're--
Laura: Oh, hey!
Matt: Hi.
Laura: How's it going, guys?
Matt: Good, how're you doing?
Laura: We have a-- don't you touch my donuts. We have all of the normal, wonderful stuff still available in the store. The stuff that's out of stock, actually, has been removed so that you don't get confused when you're looking for things. So we have our Gilmore shirt, we got our Strongjaw shirt, we got a 'How do you want to do this' shirt, with the hoodie. We got baseball caps, we got patches, we got vinyl stickers, which I am still a really big fan of. They go on windshields, Macbooks, whatever you want.
Travis: Pets.
Laura: Pets! Not recommended.
Travis: Really?
Laura: So yeah, check it out if you wanna wear your Critical Role goodies.
Liam: You're like an Italian grandmother in Hoboken, New Jersey right now.
Laura: Ey!
Travis: Bada-bing!
Laura: Bada-bing, bada-boom, there you go.
Matt: Moving on. The new Signal Boost came out, with Jason Charles Miller as the host, our friend who played Garthok for his temporary run during the initial Conclave attack.
Travis: He is part of the Clasp.
Matt: Yes. And he is--
Marisha: And he did our theme music.
Matt: He did our theme music for the show, here, he's a very talented musician. And a good friend of the show. And you can see his new run on Signal Boost this week. New GM Tips is out today. My second-to-last on the run at this time. This episode is more for the players, and deals with creating and running characters that are against the normal tropes and the type that people generally fall into when creating a new character in an RPG. So go check it out, see if any of it seems to resonate.
Taliesin: This is how he criticizes us now, is he makes a little web video and sends it to all of us instead of talking to us.
Marisha: Yeah, it's very passive aggressive.
Matt: Took you a while to figure it out, Taliesin. But I'm glad you finally did.
Taliesin: I'm feeling it.
Matt: Also, Wednesday Club, Taliesin?
Taliesin: Yes, it turns out I have to record voice over on occasion, so Wednesday Club is not going to be me this week and I'll be talking to comic books to the engineer who will be mildly irritated with me. But instead, you guys, Matt Key is going to be hosting and he is going to talk about his favorite thing in the world.
Matt: Doctor Strange.
Marisha: Doctor Strange.
Taliesin: -- his wife, and Doctor Strange, but that's cool, too. Because him and his wife.
Marisha: Oh yeah, oh yeah, and his wife. And Doctor Strange.
Taliesin: And Doctor Strange, his work wife.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: It's great and fun.
Matt: Also, don't forget we have Talks Machina live on Tuesday nights. (all cheer)
Matt: 7PM here on Twitch and Alpha, hosted by our fantastic Brian Foster. So check us out next week to discuss this episode when it comes up. Last two things: one, we mentioned it on Talks Machina, but one of our fantastic crew members, Amandine, who's currently trying to legally find a way to stay in this country, currently put up a Fundly, the fun folks here, part of the cast and community put together a Fundly, fundly.com/we-love-amandine/ to raise money to help with her legal costs and try keep her here and working with us. The community has already been incredible. If you have any interest in help and support that, I recommend go check it out and give what little that you can because it all helps. And last but not least we got a gift today in the mail from a fantastic critter named Chris Capola who as part of an anniversary present for me and Marisha built a treasure chest. Like from scratch, like cut down the tree, trimmed, lathed... built a treasure chest.
Laura: It's amazing.
Travis: That's man-made wood right there.
Laura: We thought it was for all of us but then we realized it was just for Matt and Marisha.
Liam: It's physically beautiful but just the process we saw outlined is--
Laura: Phenomenal.
Liam: Beautiful, beautiful gift.
Matt: So Chris, thank you, tremendously, from all of us, but mostly me and Marisha. (all laugh)
Liam: I'm going to take a dump in that box, at your house, the first opportunity I get. (all laugh)
Laura: No!
Matt: That is absolutely brilliant, and undeserved and very happy to find a very wonderful place in our home to fill it with awesome nerdy shit. Thank you guys. All right, I think that's the end of our announcements. That being the case.
All: No, no, no, no!
Matt: Let's jump in--
Travis: Let's do it.
Matt: -- to tonight's episode--
All: No, no, no, no!
Matt: -- of Critical Role. (all cheer) [opening credits]
Matt: And welcome back. So, picking up where we left off this last episode, Vox Machina had made their way west into the Ozmit Sea, to the islands of Anamn and to the city of Vesrah, the final stop in Keyleth's long-running Aramente. To prove herself leader of her people of Zephra. Here they were given a task, as part of the Aramente, where they had to retrieve three lodestones within the rift of the water elemental plane, which as of late had been taken up residence by a kraken, an ancient pet of the Titans, now freed and left to wander, to feed, grow, and apparently loom across that boundary. The party went in and, due to an unfortunate vomiting episode underwater, drew the attention of the kraken.
Laura: Did you plan that?
Sam: What?
Laura: That you were almost vomiting today, and you vomited and ruined our lives?
Sam: I just plan to vomit every week. At least once.
Matt: It's for the best, I think. However, drew the attention of the kraken, and a very, very intense battle ensued, in which most of you managed to escape by the skin of your teeth, however, in the battle, Vax did fall, his body left cold and lifeless beneath the waters. In a last-minute urge of leadership, Keyleth reached out, grabbed the twins, and Planeshifted back into the prime material plane, with Percival, Taryon, and Grog looking to escape. You managed to be vomited up with, apparently, almost no hit points left, and jumped through the portal while flicking off the kraken as--
Travis: Double-birds.
Liam: Badass.
Matt: And that was where we left off. So. Before we get into this--
Sam: Wait, what? There's a before?
Matt: Vax.
Marisha: Oh, no.
Laura: You!
Sam: Bastard.
Matt: As you feel the cold waters rush around you, and your vision go dark, even as the unconsciousness takes you, your vision narrows and tunnels until it's just nothing. And while you were floating before, the cold temperature begins to become warm. It's a familiar warmth. And as opposed to being in water, there is no resistance, you are just in a dark space. You can look down, and you can now see your hands. And you recall, and you remember this. You've been here before. This is very reminiscent of your first journey into the blood pool, your first true communion with the Raven Queen. And the moment you make that realization, as you're looking at your hands, you watch as something dull and white arises from the darkness below you, and you look down and see the massive porcelain mask of the Raven Queen emerge from the shadows, tendrils of darkness spilling off the edges and the corners. As you watch the stone face of the Raven Queen rise up to meet yours, what seemed immense suddenly seems small. And as the shadow pulls away, you can see the tumbles of jet-black hair falling past the shoulders, the long, raven-feather-woven-- [no audio]
Matt: -- gathers and then vanishes into the impossible darkness behind her. The hands reach out and take you by the sides of the head, and you hear the voice once again emanating, sourceless, ringing from all around you. It says, "My champion. It seems you've stepped to return to me. But what is your destined thread to be?" Grog, as you come jumping through the portal and turn to flick off the kraken, you watch as one of its tendrils begins to-- one of its final tentacles that's still there pulls through and begins to try and grab one of the sides of the rock lodestone pillars.
Travis: Oh no!
Matt: The other guardians, half merfolk, half various individuals, rush forward and begin stabbing at it, as it begins to get its beak snapping right at the interior of this portal. You see it starting to flex and the energy beginning to pulse, it's almost trying and force its way through a much smaller opening. Percival, Grog, Taryon, what are you guys doing?
Sam: Oh, shit. We have to do stuff?
Travis: Oh, shit.
Taliesin: I'm still underwater, aren't I?
Matt: You all are still underwater, yes.
Travis: Does this happen a lot?
Matt: The guardians right now are just shouting and screaming and stabbing at the tentacle.
Travis: (yells) A lot of that? There's a lot of just open-mouthed (yells)?
Matt: Yeah, the guard's like, "Argh! Quick! Push it back!" They're all stabbing it. The one tentacle finally snaps and withdraws inside.
Travis: We could just go, we could just leave, it's just fine. It's good.
Matt: The mouth pulls back, and now the whole body shifts over, and you see the one giant eye from one side of the kraken come peering through--
Travis: Yeah, fuck that noise.
Taliesin: I am dragging Taryon-- and you, if I can drag you as well-- we're walking away.
Travis: The eyeball's soft, let me throw one more time at the eyeball. Yeah, I throw the hammer at the eyeball.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and make an attack.
Travis: Okay. Reckless!
Matt: Reckless. Okay, so you had disadvantage underwater, so it's just one roll.
Travis: Ah, balls. 23.
Matt: That'll hit.
Travis: Nice!
Matt: Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: I meant two-handed. Oh no, I'm throwing it.
Matt: You're throwing it. (music flares up)
Laura: There it is.
Matt: This connector's a little wonky.
Travis: 21 points of damage. I'm still enlarged, right?
Matt: You are, yes.
Travis: 25 points of damage.
Matt: 25. Whack! As you release the hammer, it goes Thor-style just head-first, piercing through the water, and (impact sound) into the open eye of the kraken as it slams shut. You hear the (groan) as it reels back and the voice pierces through the rift towards you and most of the people in the vicinity one more time, saying, "I'm coming soon enough." And as it pulls back, the remainder of the guardians go ahead and reach over, each putting hands on the lodestones, and shift them slightly in place, and you watch as the rift crackles and then doesn't slam entirely shut, but the image you had of the water elemental plane suddenly grows a little more opaque and difficult to make out the discerning details.
Travis: Did I manage to (thump sound)?
Matt: Yeah, your hammer does return.
Travis: Oh, thank god. Well, we all give something every once in awhile.
Matt: So, as you're carrying the-- which you were--
Sam: He resuscitated me, I believe?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: I have six points.
Matt: Yes. So, conscious, horribly beaten. It seems that the kraken has been beaten back, and currently the lode-stones are utilized to keep the rift in check. You're uncertain as to whether or not the threat of the kraken was an idle threat or whatever else it has planned, but regardless, that's the least of your worries.
Taliesin: Did we all hear it?
Sam: Hear what?
Taliesin: The kraken.
Travis: 'Cause he mind-speaks, right?
Matt: It would've been--
Travis: It brain-talks.
Matt: It would've been primarily to you, Grog, and some of the other guardians nearby.
Taliesin: Okay. That's good.
Travis: Well, he was not happy in the end, there. But he recognized true power and he was sorry to see us go.
Matt: As soon as you've had this conversation, you turn and look to the left and you see Durent there who is waiting and goes, "Where is the rest of them? Where's the rest? Where's Keyleth?"
Taliesin: They-- they--
Travis: They distappeared.
Taliesin: They went away.
Laura: (laughs) Distappeared.
Matt: "Well, let's hope that they know where they're going, at the very least. Any idea where they went?"
Taliesin: Can we breathe some air? Please?
Matt: "Aye, aye, all right, follow me, follow me." And he starts leading the swimming cavalcade of individuals that are leading you up to the top of Vesrah. Back up through the Aerie of Torrent, through the various tubes and tunnels of the reef that leads towards the surface of the Ozmit Sea. Simultaneously, Keyleth, Vex, and the lifeless body of Vax, you apparate roughly ten feet above the surface of the water on the outskirts of Vesrah. Tumble a bit, and splash into the foot-and-a-half shallow waters on the outskirts. As you all get up for a minute and think about your circumstance. Vex, you look down and you see your brother, face-down in the water, floating.
Laura: I flip him over and look at him. Vax! Vax, wake up!
Marisha: Come on. Come on. We have to get him out of this environment. Come on.
Laura: Is there a cleric on the island?
Marisha: Yes. Before I do anything, I am going to throw up a Sky Write above the city.
Laura: I start dragging his body.
Marisha: And it says, "Help. Cleric." That works. They'll get the idea. Hold on to him. Get on. I am going to turn into my giant raven form again.
Laura: How big is that?
Marisha: It's like the giant eagle form. I just kind of modify it for style.
Laura: That's tight.
Matt: Okay, so using the stats of a giant eagle but you're going into a raven-type form.
Marisha: Yeah, yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Black feathers.
Travis: Good.
Marisha: All that coolness. Yeah.
Travis: It's all about branding.
Marisha: Yeah. A hundred percent.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Okay. And what're you doing?
Marisha: Gotta be on-message.
Laura: Where are we going?
Marisha: I fly off towards the center of the city, towards where the entrance of the portal was, 'cause I'm assuming there would be sages and clerics waiting there.
Matt: Well, the portal is beneath the city.
Marisha: I know but there is like a--
Matt: There is the central chamber in the middle of the city, which is where it seemed the base of where the social gatherings seemed to occur. And the centerpiece was where Uvenda and many of the other keepers of the city seemed to frequent.
Marisha: I'll head there.
Matt: Okay. So you watch as the giant raven takes off.
Laura: Oh no, I'm holding onto her, right?
Marisha: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Matt: Okay, so you're holding onto her.
Marisha: She's holding onto him and we're riding there.
Matt: Okay, I see. I got you. Okay so you climb onto the back of the giant raven, clutching your brother in one arm, and as the wings pick up, you use all the might that you have to just hold on. You're used to flying under your own power usually, not somebody else's. But as the wings take off, the sea breeze, thankfully, is not too heavy that day. And as you coast in, coming down, dodging between the various buildings heading towards the central risen chamber. You watch as the upper, third-tier level of this, there's a single chamber that is open and the outside wall is a series of pillars that makes up the structure. On the inside, you can see it dips down into three different sunken platforms, and in the center there are a handful of small statues, there's incense being burned, and what looks to be a small altar of some kind. There are four figures there inside, all dressed in similar blues and greens, aquas and whites, most of them are just long robes with dangling shell-based jewelry, and various smoothed-off stones that have been found tossed and rounded by the elements through the years. And in the center of the chamber, in the process of lighting a few of these, you're not quite sure of the material, but they appear to be candles, as you see they're being lit like candles. You see Uvenda is walking with her staff, taking this long burning tube, and is currently setting them alight as you approach. As the wings of the raven begin to prepare for landing, the wind kicks up in front and you see some of the other guardians put their arm up and look up curiously. Some of them reaching back and preparing for whatever may be there. Uvenda's voice however rings out across the center of this chamber and says, "Stop! Stop. I know this one who approaches." And as they all slowly back up, Uvenda stumbles upward, sets aside her small hand-based wick to one of the servants and approaches the raven as you begin to slink off the side of the bird.
Laura: Please! Are there any clerics here?
Matt: "We do have some here of a healing-based nature. Yes. Has he been hurt?"
Laura: He's-- He's dead.
Matt: She slowly approaches and reaches over and puts her hand on the forehead of Vax's corpse. Runs her thumb along the cold skin. "Indeed. The kraken claims another."
Laura: No. No, he won't claim him. What can we do?
Matt: "The power that is at our disposal could perhaps bring him back, though his form may be different than you recall."
Marisha: I drop my form.
Matt: All right. The feathers scatter off as Keyleth is now returned to her half-elf image.
Marisha: Do you have means of traveling quickly? We have a friend who is a cleric. Can you get us to her there and back quickly? Or someone who can Tree Stride me there and bring her back? I'm exhausted or else I would do it myself. Please? Please?
Matt: "I have not a means of travel, but we could reach out to someone."
Marisha: Yeah, yeah. Any--
Matt: "All right." And she walks back to the altar, and you can see where there are a series of these statues. There's four of them in the center and there's one large statue in the center. And the center statue, it looks almost like long-petrified reef. It's white, it's porous, it looks like the long-dead reef. But it seems to swirl into a tree-like shape. It's this weird merging of sea and forest-based imagery, and as each various portion of the tree outstretches, you see various baubles are hanging from it. You see stones, necklaces, notes. Uvenda sets her staff to the side and her small, slightly arched form begins to slowly crawl up the side of the tree, and it looks a bit physically arduous for her but nobody offers to help. You see that this is something that she's done often and is part of her job as the guardian here in Vesrah.
Marisha: While she does this, I come over the earpiece and I say, Grog, Percy, quick, get back up to the central tower. Quick.
Laura: How do we even know they're alive?
Marisha: I am trusting that they are.
Matt: With the distance of the earpiece, you can hear them. Yes.
Taliesin: We're on our way.
Marisha: Oh thank god. Thank god. Is everyone still alive down there?
Taliesin: Barely. Yes, for the moment.
Marisha: Vax is down. So hurry.
Taliesin: We're on our way.
Matt: As you're finishing the statement, you watch as Uvenda is climbing down with one hand and has something cradled in her left arm as she's like (grunts), almost slips for a minute and sets herself down back on both her feet and rubs her lower back. "You'll get there one day."
Laura: Please hurry.
Matt: And she unfurls her arm, and you can see there's a conch shell. A small conch shell, but a conch shell. And she goes, "Whoever you're wishing to speak to, think of them and whisper it into the shell."
Marisha: Pike. Pike, if you can hear me, we need you, now, in Vesrah. Please, it's Vax.
Laura: How do we know if it worked?
Marisha: Yeah? I second that statement.
Matt: "She'll hear you. It's up to her whether or not she can act." And she hands the conch over to one of the assistants, takes her staff back up. "Now, we offer the service still, should you not hear anything. We are more than willing to try and restore him to whatever form we can."
Laura: How much time does-- How long is too long?
Marisha: I don't want to wait too long. Let's just wait a little while longer and see if we hear anything from Pike. She's very smart. She'll hear us.
Laura: I start brushing his hair off of his face.
Marisha: While she does that, I start gathering the feathers and start laying them out as a bed around Vax, and preparing the station.
Matt: Okay, so the scattered remnants of your transformation, the raven feathers that were shunted from your form, you begin to form into a bed-like place to set his body on. Okay. While you guys are doing that, Durent finally breaks the surface of the water, where you were originally brought down into the Aerie of Torrent. And after you've all hit the surface and breathed out, the bright midday sun is coming down, the smell of sea air hits you. You hear the distant cawing of various ocean shore birds. It's a welcome change of pace from the murky depths of the water elemental plane you've been facing for the past few moments. As soon as you emerge, Durent steps up onto the sand, turns around, shakes and brushes his hair off. "All right. Well, that's the end of my watch. I don't know what to do."
Travis: Could you point us in the direction of where your healers would be?
Matt: "Healers?" And he points over to the large ascending central structure in Vesrah. The one above where you guys had dinner the night before. "That's your best bet there. That's where Uvenda is, at least. She can help you more than I do. I spend most of my time on the outskirts, or down below."
Travis: Right. Thank you for watching our backs in there, that was real hairy, but we have to be leaving you now.
Matt: "Oh, understood."
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: "Hope everything's okay." And he gives you a nod and steps over to the side and watches as you guys go, as he retrieves one of his Waverunner sailing boards, and watches with a look of intensity and worry on his brow, as his dark dwarven complexion vanishes in the distance. You guys approaching, rushing in towards the center of the city. As you begin to approach, you watch as Doty, who's been waiting patiently off to the side, comes up to you and is holding the book out, and starts thumbing through page after page after page.
Sam: Ah, yes, Doty, thank you. I'll review this all later. How many pages did you fill?
Matt: He goes past about 25 different pages, in very very tiny script, that goes into detail about the tides going in, each person that went in and out of the water, anything he saw in the further distance, various birds from the sky. He does have a few spatterings of white bird excrement across the top of his armor.
Sam: Sure he does.
Matt: He seems as proud as an automaton could.
Sam: Very well done, Doty, thank you. We'll have much more to write tonight, so save some energy for that. Will you-- Will you carry me?
Matt: He sweeps you up in a full-on princess carry, and begins running after Percival and Grog, towards the center of Vesrah. You guys reach the base of this. There are all the open stone pavilions, the central gathering areas, where you now see people starting to look up curiously, coming out of their various homes and places, noticing all this commotion happening on the top of the temple. You watch as there is a spattering of dark feathers up the top. And you guys begin to ascend one of the two spiral staircases that ascends to the upper level of the temple. Eventually you guys come to the surface, you're immediately greeted by one of the guards who is on guard currently with one of their spears. And upon recognizing you, he kind of steps aside and lets you in, and that's where you guys watch as Keyleth and Vex are laying Vax down onto a kind of makeshift bed of black feathers.
Sam: What? Am I there?
Matt: You're there. You're still in Doty's arms.
Sam: Doty, down. What happened? What's going on? Is he dead?
Travis: Yeah. This is what happens when you adventure.
Taliesin: Keyleth, what--
Sam: Oh god.
Marisha: She'll come. She'll come.
Travis: Who?
Taliesin: Are there other options?
Marisha: I'm waiting for Pike. She'll come.
Taliesin: Are there other options?
Marisha: Pike will come.
Laura: There are other options.
Marisha: But they're not good enough. Pike will come.
Laura: I don't care what he looks like. I just want him back.
Marisha: Pike will come. I don't want to do this without Pike. She'll come.
Matt: Uvenda at this point is starting to gather some of the servants and they're starting to take down certain baubles and trinkets from the tree branches and setting them in a vicinity around, and as she does so she's like, "These represent protection of the waves." They take some small salts and kind of scatter them around. They're doing the best they can from a ceremonial standpoint to at least prepare a space. About 15 tense moments pass, as you all look out to the horizon, the sun now moving past its zenith and pushing into the afternoon portion of the day. The air is growing a little more hot. You find both the nerves, the stress, and the temperature of the room, all the light from the sun being reflected off the white stone, causing this kind of heated element of the interior and you instinctually begin to sweat and it's getting slightly uncomfortable. There is what sounds like a distant rumble of thunder.
Marisha: Where is it coming from?
Matt: You're not sure. It just sort of seemed directionless.
Taliesin: Is anybody else startled by it?
Matt: You guys all notice each other reacting to the sound and suddenly it happens again, but this time much closer.
Marisha: Is this normal? What's happening?
Matt: Uvenda's looking a bit awkwardly in the-- "Normal? No. But let us be cautious." As she takes her staff, her little elderly gnomish form kind of clutching it in front of her in a defensive standpoint.
Travis: Oh, great.
Laura: Don't let anything harm him.
Travis: Yeah.
Taliesin: I'm going to run to my room and get my things. Have we had-- we have not had anything vaguely resembling a short rest at this point.
Matt: No. It all happened very rapidly. The rest has been the 15 minutes of kind of waiting to hear if anything happened. As soon as you start darting to leave, Percival, that rolling thunder sound hits with a small thunder crack. Right in the room there's a flash of light, there's a spiral burst of what looks like a white-orange flame. And there you see, dropped from about ten feet in the air, the golden astral form of Pike with her extended Sarenrae wings that slowly retract and vanish from the form. As your gnomish friend kind of looks up, her mostly corporeal form. Eyes wide, glancing up at the rest of you. Ashley, if you want to come in. (all cheer)
Sam: As Pike, Ashley Johnson.
Ashley: Hello everybody. I wish it were better circumstances. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay.
Matt: So Pike, the message came to you and you immediately went into a frenzy. You were in the process of carrying a bunch of food along with other volunteers within Emon, getting it to some of the folks that lost their homes. And when the voice of Keyleth hit your ears, you immediately dropped what you were holding. You found somebody to help to continue to lead this effort, and immediately rushed off to find the nearest temple of Sarenrae in Emon. Which still stands, slightly damaged, but it's still one of the buildings of the temple district that's fine. There, you sat in quiet prayer for a number of minutes just imploring to Sarenrae to offer you some sort of guidance or way. And you felt something around you shift, like a push, someone just kind of pushed you in the shoulders. And as your eyes opened, you weren't in the temple anymore. You were above a floor in a brighter, sunlit, unfamiliar place. And as you land and caught yourself, you can see-- You are in your astral form, much like in the Whitestone experience. And you turn around and see, surrounding you in the center of this open-air chamber in the center of this expansive ocean, your friends, their eyes locking to you with a look of sudden joy and despair mingled.
Marisha: Oh, thank Sarenrae. You heard. And I just run up and-- I was going to give her a hug, and then pat her astral form. I hug her.
Travis: Pike, we need your help.
Ashley: Okay. What's happening?
Laura: (tearfully) It's Vax.
Marisha: Can you still do some sort of resurrection?
Ashley: Yeah.
Marisha: From here?
Ashley: I think I can. I think I can, I will try.
Marisha: How is this going to work with him and the Raven Queen? What do you know? Vex, do you know anything?
Laura: I know nothing.
Marisha: Do you know anything, Pike?
Ashley: I don't know. I've never done anything quite like this before. I mean, most of the time you guys have been there for resurrections, I don't know. I don't know. We just have to try.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Is there anything on his armor? Like, something we should be looking for? Like, a tab or a button or-- No?
Laura: I look. For any sort of message from the Raven Queen on his armor.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Ashley: That's good.
Laura: 20. What's five plus seven?
Liam: 32.
Laura: No! 22.
Liam: Oh, I thought you said 25.
Matt: 22.
Laura: 22.
Matt: I mean, most of the runic symbols and designs on here aren't formulated in a sentence structure or language. You do see the roots of them. Some of them are Draconic in root, but they've been changed as part of the enchantment of the armor. However, you do find a small, crumpled note on the inside of the armor.
Laura: Can I pull it out?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: What is it?
Matt: It's up to you.
Laura: I'm going to open it.
Matt: Okay. Do you want to tell her what's on it?
Liam: Oh, you want me to tell her? It just says your name on it.
Laura: My-- Fuck.
Liam: And it says, "Take these wings and fly."
Laura: Oh no. No. I just put it back in the armor.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: There's nothing.
Travis: Let's go get him.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: Can we start? He's been here for a while. I'm sorry to bring you into this so quickly, Pike.
Ashley: No, no, no. It's okay. I would rather be here, and I'm glad that you guys called me.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Because you're in your astral form, you don't have the reagents with you. However, reagents can be provided by the party. You rummage through, and you require a diamond of at least 500 gold piece worth, which you have at your disposal, so mark that off in the bag of holding.
Laura: I'll mark it off.
Matt: Uvenda has already done a very good job of preparing the space for a ritual not quite like the one you're used to, but a similar variation, hers being druid-based magic. But you work with them over the next hour or so to take elements they've already prepared and alter it to fit the ritual style that you're used to, formulating and casting. As you finish preparation and your focus, clutching onto your holy symbol around your chest, you feel the warmth of Sarenrae that brought you here begin to swell around you. And you guys watch as the ritual continues, Pike's form begins to just emit more and more light. The interior of this temple, which is largely shaded by the roof of the temple, other than the sunlight coming in from the open walls of it, the whole interior just begins to grow brighter from Pike's presence. As the incantation begins to slowly drift from your lips and the magic begins to flare, the circle that was drawn around the body, the three parts of it-- The tricorner section of this glyph awaits. Who wants to bring the first offering to the ritual? The first attempt to bring.
Laura: I'll do it. I kneel down next to him, and I take the feathers from behind my ear, and I start braiding them into his hair, and I say, you were always better at this than I was, but you gave me these feathers in one of my darkest hours to remind me of the beauty in the world, so I'm giving them to you now, because you take the beauty with you. I've done this so many times. We've brought so many of us back, but this feels different, right? I feel as if I'm not speaking to Vax, I feel as though I'm speaking directly to Her.
Marisha: Speak to him.
Laura: No. No, he's at her side, but it's being filtered through the Raven Queen. So these are my words to her. I'm here today because of a bargain my brother made with you, so I know you like to make deals as much as I do. He traded his life. He became your champion, and you spared mine, and what a striking champion he is. Long dark hair and a strong lithe figure soaring over the land in raven feathers and a dark vestige. He set pyres in your honor. Sent soul after soul to you. It would be a shame to give that up, especially now. And I remember the book that I read. Especially now as Orcus builds his forces against you. The demon prince of the undead seeks to claim your throne. You know this as well as I. We just recently killed one of his loyal servants in the Underdark, before my brother ever came into your service. Imagine what he could do now. So this is the deal I make with you: you send him back, allow my brother to come home, and we will seek out Orcus. I will track him down, I will hunt him in whatever pit he resides, and we will destroy your enemy once and for all. What say you?
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Laura: 25.
Matt: Okay. The minute the words, what say you, leave your lips, one third of the glyph (charging noise) vibrates to life. Where the golden light of Sarenrae's power that the glyph initially emanates, the light, as it brightens, becomes a purplish-blue hue. So. Who wishes to be the next offering?
Marisha: I'll go. I go up to him, and I prop up his back and set him up against my chest and whisper into his ear and say, I know you can hear me. I know you're still in there, and I'm sure she can hear me too, but your sister is right. You've held up to your promise, to her, and you've made a promise to me. We have to settle down and live happily together, remember? You promised me. Vesrah. So I want to give you a little bit of light to follow in the darkness. And I find the scar on his back of my handprint. And I find it and I cast Daylight into his back, into the hand print and say, and besides... You know I'm in love with you, right? (quietly) That's it.
Matt: Roll a d20 and add your wisdom.
Marisha: God damn it (sniffles) Which dice? Okay. 20 total.
Matt: 20 total.
Marisha: Yeah. (whispering) Come on, come on, come on.
Matt: As the Daylight spell brightens, your instinct is to close your eyes, but you push against it, and you know this will temporarily burn to your retinas but you still, holding that still--
Marisha: I don't care.
Matt: --whispering into him. You can feel, not just the tears of your emotion but the instinctual pain of the blinding light piercing the inside of your eyes, but you hold strong as you whisper to him and as the final word leaves your lips, the second portion of the glyph grows alight and then transitions to that same purple-blue color. At which point, the Daylight spell diminishes in a way that you weren't expecting. As opposed to being this bright, glowing, blasting beacon, it shrinks down to a small condensed gentle glow, and you're afraid to move your hand.
Marisha: And I don't.
Matt: Okay. There's the last offering.
Sam: Do you think I should?
Travis: Shut the fuck up.
Sam: Oh, no?
Travis: Yeah. (all laugh)
Sam: All right.
Taliesin: You in?
Travis: Yeah.
Taliesin: All right.
Travis: I'll go, then. I go over to Vax. Is he on a raised platform?
Matt: No, actually, he's on the ground in a bed of black feathers and currently is propped up against Keyleth's chest. She's sitting behind him so he's leaning back against her, she has her hand against his back.
Travis: I'll stand over him. I told you before. No one kills you but me. And I think back to being in Percy's workshop at Greyskull Keep and I say, I love you too. And I reach back and I slap the ever-loving fucking shit out of his dead face. (all laugh)
Matt: Make an intimidation check. (all laugh)
Matt: Adding your strength.
Liam: Oh, jesus.
Travis: 22.
Matt: 22, okay. (echoing cracks) Keyleth, it knocks him out of your grasp, the impact is so hard.
Marisha: I just keep my hand-- come on, you have to be that hard?
Matt: The body just kinda (boof) onto the side--
Laura: Oh!
Matt: --you're like, oh god. You pick him back up.
Travis: Love hurts, Keyleth.
Marisha: I was-- oh shit.
Sam: I just let out a (yelps). (all laugh)
Matt: The third and final portion of the circular glyph alights, and then transitions to that purplish-blue glow, the entire circle complete. Oh, I want another dice.
Laura: Oh god, oh god.
Marisha: Oh jesus.
Marisha: Why is he taking a picture again?
Laura: He always does that.
Sam: He always takes a picture, he always takes a picture. It's a thing.
Marisha: Oh, fucking hell. Oh jesus, come on.
Matt: The glyphs go dark and so does the light of the outside. The entire central chamber goes dark, the light being crushed and squeezed from the vicinity. You watch as the air gets cold and a slight breeze picks up and in the darkness around you, surrounding the lifeless body of Vax, all you see is your family and darkness and there is a glowing little thread, a bead, in the sternum of Vax's lifeless corpse and you watch as a hand suddenly appears from out of the darkness and reaches down and grasps the thread, and emerging from the darkness, you all see for the first time the white, porcelain masked face of the Raven Queen. As she tugs on the small bead, you watch as a bright, white thread begins to be drawn from the center of his chest and as it does he lifts up like a puppet, just limply dangling from it. He's lifted out of your grasp and Keyleth, you instinctually try and reach for him but this spectacle is-- you find yourself unable to move, whether it be by some other power or just the sheer awe of some sort of a presence here. As he's dangled up on this thread, she stops and holds him there. The mask looks past all of you and without the mouth moving a voice fills your minds. "My champion has learned much and has done great deeds in the service of fate." "But there is still much to be done before my charge is complete in him." She releases the thread and he drifts down onto his feet, arms and head still limp. It slowly withdraws into his chest. "We shall meet again. Come find me when the time is right and I call to you to meet me beyond the divine gate." And as the mask withdraws into shadow and her form vanishes into darkness, suddenly the light comes back in. You all kinda close your eyes and blink it and the visions gone and you see all the servants around, still standing in the places they were just looking intently at Vax, their eyes still wide open and you watch as the limp, standing form there before you, the wings of black feathers slowly stretch out from his shoulders (crackling) and as they reach out and stretch and open, his head pulls back and (heavy breath) takes a breath of living air into his lungs and his eyes blink open.
Travis: How do you feel?
Liam: Where are we? I just loop my sister's head and then I loop Keyleth and I just pull them in. (gasps) Where are we?
Laura: Vesrah. You're alive. (laughs) Hey, that queen, she's pretty scary looking, huh?
Marisha: Yeah, you're not kidding, that's pretty intense.
Ashley: Hi Vax.
Liam: Welcome to my last four months.
Laura: (laughs) Hey, Pike.
Ashley: Hi, it's Pickle.
Laura: Pike's here. (shaky laughter)
Liam: Pike.
Marisha: She did it again.
Laura: She fixed you.
Ashley: No, I didn't.
Liam: Can I feel you?
Matt: There is some physicality to her divine form. Pike feels like she's there, like she can be held and touched, but it's like touching a warm, soft Jello.
Ashley: I go and I give him a big 'ol hug. A Jello-y hug. Gloop!
Matt: Or like a big piece of cotton. It's softer and gives a bit.
Marisha: Cotton candy Pike.
Matt: Kinda, yeah. Kinda.
Liam: I take hold of the Jello head and press my head into it and say, thank you, sister.
Ashley: Of course, Vax.
Liam: Thank you.
Ashley: I give him a cotton candy kiss on his forehead.
Travis: Aw, man.
Matt: As she does so, and she releases your head, Vax, you look at her face and you look up and just behind her, you see the mask there, and the voice comes to your head. None of you see this, just Vax. And says, "Soon. I'll call for your purpose. In time." And it just fades and you can now see the sea beyond the midday of Vesrah now surrounding you.
Liam: Whoa. Hey, I feel like shit.
Laura: Hey welcome to the club.
Travis: Yeah, you punched your card.
Laura: Yeah, all that's left now is Keyleth.
Matt: Which, by the way, your jaw is sore and you're pretty sure you're missing a tooth.
Laura: Oh!
Travis: Can't grow that back, bitch.
Matt: Okay, yeah.
Liam: (spits) I walk over to Grog, and I try to reach my arms around him and fail. You fucking fucker, come here.
Travis: Yeah, welcome back. Don't be weird.
Liam: Ah, you've met me, right?
Travis: That's true.
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: Glad you're not dead. Really glad you're not dead.
Liam: Me too.
Laura: Do you need to rest? Do you need to go lay down?
Liam: Don't we all?
Marisha: I feel like we all need to rest.
Laura: Well yes, but--
Travis: I'm good.
Marisha: I turn to Uvenda.
Matt: Okay. She's still kind of like, "Well. I'm glad to see that this was a success. That your friend could come in aid as well."
Marisha: Grog. Tary.
Sam: Yes?
Marisha: The lodestones.
Laura: Oh. I pull mine out as well.
Sam: Oh. Oh, yes. I hereby present to you a lodestone that I got at the bottom of the sea.
Marisha: Yeah. Good job, good job. Good work.
Matt: She kind of points over and the servants come up and collect the three of them and she goes, "Well, this is fine news. I was worried that we had a loss, and perhaps this endeavor was incomplete. However, it appears that you've both survived the encounter with the current scourge to Vesrah's rift, and you've completed your Aramente, young Keyleth. There will be a celebration tonight before we send you back to Zephra, where you will be formally crowned by your father, Korren."
Marisha: Oh, that's happening tonight? Oh wow, this stuff moves fast, yeah
Matt: "We'll celebrate this evening. You'll return at your leisure, but--" And she kind of walks up to you, and she can see the tears, and she kind of reaches up with her wrinkled, sun-wrecked, elderly gnome skin. And reaches up and rubs the tears from your face and goes, "It's all right. You've done well. And I'm sorry."
Marisha: For what?
Matt: "For a lot of things. The Aramente didn't used to be this dangerous. It's tradition, but our trial has changed, and while we grew confident in your confidence upon arrival, we should've been more attentive. This might not have happened."
Marisha: No. It was my negligence in proper planning that added to this.
Matt: "That may be the lesson learned at this trial. But I think we have learned a lesson as well. And perhaps we need to adjust our trial, given the dangers of our recent elemental guardian."
Marisha: I think the landscape of the world has changed a lot recently, and I think the Aramente should reflect that. So I would be honored to provide any insight to help.
Matt: "Well, come back. Come back once you've returned to your people and become the Voice of the Tempest. Then we may alter however you see fit. Anyway, glad you're awake!" Taps you on the head with the staff.
Travis: Unconscious. (all laugh)
Matt: "Shit!"
Laura: How many people lose their lives on their Aramente? How many people complete it?
Matt: "Well, the Aramente is generally not a lethal experience. The kraken only arrived this recent generation, and honestly, the only two who's had to take it with the kraken's presence were Keyleth and her mother."
Marisha: What?
Taliesin: I'd been hoping to run a perception check through pretty much this entire conversation, to make sure she's being completely honest about everything.
Matt: Insight check, you mean?
Taliesin: Yeah, an insight check. Meh, 13.
Matt: 13. Hard to read.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: She seems to be upfront.
Marisha: What do you mean? Why were we the only ones with the tools?
Matt: "Well, before the kraken came to the rift, it was simply an excursion to gather the lodestones amongst errant elementals and other mild dangers within the plane. The kraken had only been drawn to the rift--"
Marisha: Recently.
Matt: "-- recently. And unfortunately, Vilya was the first to take the trial with it residing just beyond our door."
Laura: How many people did she have with her?
Matt: "She went in with five."
Marisha: And none returned?
Matt: "None. Two of which were our own."
Marisha: I'm sorry.
Matt: "That's the danger we face in these times. To exist among such ravaging elemental forces is a danger unto itself. But that is the call of the Ashari by nature, is it not?"
Marisha: Yes, it is.
Matt: "To safeguard the rest of civilization from these terrors. Anyway, enough dourness. It got rather cold here and I think we could use some warming heat of the sun, some food and perhaps some rest for you." Hits you again on the forehead.
Liam: I'm alive.
Marisha: Do you mind if we take a brief respite amongst ourselves, before we catch up with you and join in the festivities?
Matt: "But of course! It's--" And she looks at the sun. "It's about time for my sailing, so I'll see you here in the next hour or two." And she goes, and two of her servants start flanking her down the stairway.
Marisha: Kaitiaki, Uvenda.
Matt: She stops and turns, looking back at all of you, and gives a deep bow. "Kaitiaki." Continues to make her way down the stairs.
Ashley: Keyleth.
Marisha: Group hug, guys, group hug!
Travis: You did it.
Marisha: Come here, Tary, you too.
Sam: Oh, me too? All right, okay. Sure, sure. This is natural, this is right.
Liam: Who is that?
Laura: What are you talking about, 'who is that'?
Liam: That guy, who is that guy?
Laura: What are you talking about, that is Taryon.
Sam: Oh, come now. You recognize me. Taryon Darrington! The brave, the bold. We both fell in battle, so I know exactly how you feel right now.
Liam: Oh, I've read your book!
Sam: Well.
Liam: I know you.
Laura: I didn't think it was published yet.
Sam: Not quite yet, but I'm sure people are already talking about it.
Liam: How did you do, Tary?
Sam: Well--
Travis: Yeah, how did you do, Tary?
Taliesin: Well, he did well.
Sam: Doty, take this down.
Matt: Which, as you look over, Doty has been faced away from the entire ritual and had been recording the various weather elements and surroundings.
Sam: Doty, no! We just witnessed an amazing ritual. Did you not get any of that?
Matt: Turns the book around and you can see it talks about cloud structures, it talks about a few children that were playing in the water below.
Sam: Well, you are consistent. I'll fill you in on the details of that later, but now take this down. 'Plagued by an incompetent plan and ambushed by a surprise from a kraken, we nevertheless stayed 'true to ourselves and to our bravery, found the lodestones and, despite nearly dying, came back to 'tell the tale, proving ourselves as heroes of Vesrah and to each other. I was aided by young 'Percival in my fight. Abandoned by the Antlers and the Elves. And by the end of the fight, it was 'just me and the big guy, duking it out. I blacked out for a moment, but before I did, I'm sure he 'saw my bravery and was impressed. That's why he dragged me to safety and presented me to Percival 'for healing.' That's enough for now.
Laura: You forgot to mention the part where you vomited and blew our cover.
Marisha: Oh, that's right, you did do that.
Laura: Thank you.
Sam: It's not-- This is the abridged-- I don't want to bore the readers with too much detail.
Travis: It's so weird. I totally remember walking past you and trying to leave.
Sam: Somehow, I got to the rift door and I didn't get there on my own, so thank you. Thank you, Big Guy, for dragging me there. I appreciate it.
Laura: Um, Pike.
Sam: Oh!
Ashley: Have I met-- I don't know-- My memory is not-- Who are you?
Sam: Taryon Darrington. We passed briefly in Whitestone.
Matt: Briefly, yes.
Ashley: Yes, I didn't realize you were still with my family.
Sam: I'll switch to Gnome.
Ashley: Oh, it's fine, I can--
Sam: And I'll say, oh, you're friendly with these people as well?
Ashley: Ah, yes.
Sam: They've taken me in and they're showing me the ropes of adventure, and we've already done quite a lot. We were on a boat that was attacked.
Ashley: Oh wow.
Sam: And we almost died, but I destroyed the beast that was attacking us with a bit of magic.
Ashley: How did you destroy it? Do tell me.
Sam: I have a lot of tricks. Magical things that I think you might even understand, because it seems that you are a magic user yourself.
Ashley: I dabble.
Sam: The resurrection thing that you just did was amazing. I've never seen anything like it, and it was quite astounding for somehow who's not really here. Hello?
Matt: Your hand (impact sounds) does actually hit the side of her face.
Sam: Oh! Sorry, sorry.
Laura: And they're speaking this whole time in Gnome?
Matt: Yeah. This whole time, you've been hearing (talks Gnome).
Sam: By the way, how is my accent? I haven't had a chance to practice Gnome on an actual gnome in a long, long time, since I was a boy.
Ashley: It's terrible.
Sam: Oh.
Ashley: But it's nice to be able to speak it.
Sam: I apologize profusely for butchering your language. I learned it by books, and, as I've said, I've only had a chance to speak it once before to a gnome who visited my family's estate a long time ago.
Ashley: Oh? All gnomes know each other, so who was it?
Sam: I didn't catch the fellow's name.
Ashley: It was a fellow, that narrows it down.
Sam: He was part of a performing troupe that my father hired to entertain us on New Year's Eve. And they came in, stayed a few days. I remember quite vividly though that they left in a hurry. Something went on with one of the members of the troupe and my father's handmaiden, and he was very upset with it and he chased them all off in the morning. I didn't get to continue practicing with him. All I know is, my father was so upset. Something happened in his room, he had to burn his bedsheets, and I think he got a new bed. I don't know quite what happened, but it was quite a dramatic thing. I was only about 12 or 13 at the time.
Ashley: That sounds like somebody that I would love tremendously.
Sam: Well, he had a sharp wit to him, and-- not very attractive young man, but--
Ashley: He sounds very familiar. Like I said, us gnomes do know each other.
Sam: That's amazing.
Ashley: Yeah.
Sam: Really? And is it true that you live hundreds of years, and--
Ashley: Thousands, even.
Sam: Is-- Oh! I--
Ashley: Thousands.
Sam: I was misinformed.
Ashley: It's something you should know. Yes, I should-- if you need to know anything, you should always ask me.
Sam: I will. I--
Ashley: I will tell you all the truths.
Sam: I will-- I was planning on doing at least one chapter in my book about the smaller races, and that would be an excellent--
Marisha: Oh boy.
Sam: -- an excellent fitting, uh, addendum.
Ashley: (laughs) Well.
Taliesin: Yeah. Yeah.
Ashley: You are just delightful. (all laugh)
Sam: Well you-- you are, too. Pleasure to meet-- make your acquaintance.
Ashley: (laughs) Okay.
Travis: You can feel free to smoke this fool, it's fine.
Ashley: No, that's fine. He's a little bit of a twat, isn't he?
Travis: A little bit.
Ashley: I don't mind him, though. All right.
Matt: All right. So. As you guys take a little bit of time to go ahead and rest, recover, converse, and bask in--
Marisha: Heal up a bit?
Matt: Heal up a bit, take a short rest, use your hit dice, get your abilities back that do come back from a short rest, we're gonna go ahead and take a quick break. Be back here in a few minutes. Hold onto that back-up character!
Sam: Oh!
Matt: 'Til later.
Laura: Oh, until later, okay, okay.
Marisha: In case.
Liam: I'm 98% relieved and 2% bummed that I--
Matt: I know!
Taliesin: No, I know the feeling, man.
Matt: I know. Who knows, it may still come up.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: (laughs)
Travis: What does that mean?! We don't know what that means! You can't say that shit!
Matt: What?
Liam: Raven Queen. Just kidding! (weird caw noise)
Travis: Raven King! Wooloolooloo!
Matt: It's almost like future challenges in the story might involve more death, I don't know.
Laura: Uh-huh.
Ashley: I'm eating my feelings. (all laugh)
Matt: Yeah, a little disappointed, but this works well.
Laura: So we'll heal up now.
Matt: Yeah, heal up now, we're gonna take a break, we'll be here in a few minutes, guys. Much love. We have another giveaway from our friends at Wyrmwood tonight! I don't know what we're giving away, 'cause I was to give--
Crew: Dice tower. Dice tower!
Matt: A dice tower! Oh, snap. You guys are getting a full-scale dice tower. What is it? It is wood. It is made of wood and it is a dice tower.
Crew: We're running it up to you!
Matt: And it's gonna be free to the winner! So, come on over to the Twitch chat, and get involved over the break. The word is raven, R-A-V-E-N.
Travis: 69 hit points.
Matt: Go ahead and-- Yeah you are, Grog. Oh. Oh snap! That is not a dice tower--
Crew: Not a dice tower.
Matt: -- it's a deck box.
Crew: Sentinel box.
Matt: Sentinel box! Which is still rad. They told me it was a-- but however-- oh, that's cool! It has like a small magnetic-- must be for minis and-- or dice, if you want to. So that's pretty rad, actually. So anyway, this 'Bird's Eye Maple Sentinel Deck Box' is gonna go to whoever the winner is.
Travis: Oh, that's pretty.
Matt: Type 'Raven' into the chat room of Twitch to win. We'll have an announcement when we come back. See you guys in a few minutes. (all cheer) [break]
Matt: Welcome back, everyone, to Critical Role. (background laughter)
Matt: Damn it. First and foremost, I wanna mention that our fantastic fundly to Amandine is apparently already really close to its goal! (cheers)
Matt: So if you guys want to check it out, it's fundly.com/we-love-amandine A-M-A-N-D-I-N-E. If you can give anything, we're almost at the goal, which is awesome.
Travis: That's amazing.
Matt: Also, we have the winner in chat!
Sam: (loud burp)
Matt: Thank you, Sam.
Taliesin: Whoa.
Sam: Sorry. Still reeling.
Taliesin: How you feeling, buddy?
Sam: Still reeling.
Matt: We have the winner in chat of our fantastic deck box from our friends at Wyrmwood, it is @stevetharia! @stevetharia, you are the winner, we're gonna go ahead and sign that box and get it sent to you, that Sentinel box. Congratulations. We'll have more giveaways in future episodes, so if you didn't get it tonight, come back again, and have another chance, which is awesome! All right. So. Bringing us back in. You guys have had some time to recover, gather your thoughts, gather your wits, and reflect on the recent near-permanent loss of your Champion of the Raven Queen, Vax'ildan. You now currently sit wherever you'd like within the city of Vesrah in preparation for an evening celebration. Is there anything you guys wish to do in the meantime?
Liam: How much time has passed since I got brought back up there?
Matt: About an hour.
Liam: About an hour?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: A little over an hour?
Matt: A little over an hour, I'd say.
Liam: A little over an hour?
Matt: Just from resting, yeah.
Liam: Just out of curiosity, do my wings 'shloop' back in?
Matt: Yes, they have retracted.
Liam: They did.
Taliesin: Where is everybody?
Marisha: Yeah, are we all together?
Matt: You guys are all together, if you wanna be, yeah.
Laura: Can we be on the beach?
Marisha: Ooh, yeah.
Matt: Sure!
Taliesin: Yes.
Sam: Is there a beach?
Matt: Well, there are portions where the sand kind of breaks the surface-- a lot of it is, you know, maybe a foot, foot and a half, below the water before you start hitting the reef and the, you know, the beach shelf drop off, but there are places where the sand rises above, and there are patches where you see a lot of the kids kind of play around and leap off of, and there are beach elements closer to the islands on the outskirts of the city, between the actual islands themselves. So yeah, there are beaches.
Taliesin: I'm going to be crafting little seashell necklaces or hair bits for everybody-- I've been working on a hair bit.
Laura: I like it.
Taliesin: Mm. Little--
Laura: Like a hair bit, or like a hair bit that goes like this?
Ashley: Ooh.
Taliesin: Yeah, and like the--
Marisha: Oh, yeah yeah, yeah!
Taliesin: -- with the little, yeah.
Laura: Ooh! Yeah!
Marisha: With a-- mm.
Taliesin: You know what it-- yeah--
Laura: I like it.
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: It's like we've had this conversation.
Laura: (laughs)
Taliesin: Making little bits for everybody.
Matt: There you go. As you're working on that, Vax, you do notice in this time that you see one of your sister's feathers that's kind of carefully braided into your hair.
Laura: All of. I've only got two of 'em and they're both in his hair.
Matt: There you go. Both of your sister's feathers are braided into your hair.
Marisha: I have something for you all. I have presents.
Travis: Presents?
Marisha: Mm-hm.
Laura: What for?
Marisha: Well, I had Gilmore help me out with a little something for if and when I completed the Aramente, as a thank you, so I got them from him before we left-- granted, in hindsight, I'm never holding onto presents ever again, 'cause we could all just die any day. But!
Liam: Like we do.
Marisha: At least--
Laura: Like you do.
Marisha: Yeah, like you do. But this time it worked out okay. And I pull out all the necklaces. These are from the dragons we've collected. They're dragon-tooth necklaces.
All: Ooh!
Marisha: And I had Gilmore enchant a very simple enchantment to each of them, so it won't-- you won't have to focus or attune to it--
Laura: Oh!
Marisha: -- if any one of us goes unconscience-- unconscious.
Liam: We're with you.
Marisha: If any one of us goes unconscious--
Liam: Don't sweat the details.
Marisha: Thank you. The rest of them will start beating a little heartbeat. That way, we know if any one of us goes down, even if we can't see each other. So. Grog!
Travis: Yeah!
Marisha: Pike!
Ashley: Thanks!
Marisha: And Vex!
Laura: It's wonderful, it's a little morbid and wonderful at the same time.
Ashley: I love it.
Marisha: Yeah. I know--
Liam: Nah, it's fucking badass.
Laura: That's so wonderful, Keyleth.
Travis: It's nails.
Marisha: Figure we all go unconscious so often--
Laura: That's so thoughtful.
Travis: Well, most of us do.
Ashley: Is that for--
Marisha: Mm. Totally had this one made for Scanlan.
Travis: Mm. Just hold onto it.
Taliesin: I say--
Sam: I understand, and that's fine. I--
Marisha: Think I should hold onto it?
Travis: Yeah, just hold onto it.
Liam: Yeah.
Travis: Don't give it to him.
Liam: I mean, this is a--
Marisha: But here's a flower! And I Druidcraft him a flower.
Sam: Oh!
Laura: What a bummer! Oh, I feel like somebody that just got party invitations, it's like oh, I ran out!
Taliesin: I make sure Tary gets a little seashell crown. So.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Thank you. This flower--
Marisha: I mean, you can-- do you wanna wear it for now?
Taliesin: We do have to get him an earpiece.
Matt: As you're staring at the flower and contemplating the awkwardness, you feel Percival slowly come up behind you and just put a little seashell crown on your head.
Taliesin: Long may he reign. (all laugh)
Travis: Oh. My. God. Oh my god.
Taliesin: Is there anyone else around, by the way?
Travis: Science bro vomit.
Taliesin: I wanna check, are we being listened to? Is there anyone within earshot? Is there anything--
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: You know, maybe I should go ahead and just give this to Tary, I can always have Gilmore make another one.
Taliesin: 16?
Laura: You could always get it back from him if he decides to leave our presence.
Matt: I mean, there are folks wandering around, and there are some people that are kind of just younger folk--
Laura: It could be safe, if he's---
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: -- or people that are general denizens of Vesrah that are just excited that all of a sudden these people came in and apparently battled a kraken and word has gotten around already--
Laura: Just let him know it's to hold it.
Marisha: Here, Tary.
Sam: What?
Marisha: Just... you did good.
Sam: You're giving this to me?
Marisha: You did good here today.
Sam: You're giving this to me.
Marisha: At least for now. I can probably have another made--
Sam: I drop to my knees. My lady,
Taliesin: Oh.
Marisha: Oh, jeez. Oh.
Sam: I cannot express to you what this means, to be accepted as a full-fledged member of this team, and-- (sounds of protest)
Sam: I knew this day would come, I didn't think so soon, but--
Taliesin: It has not come.
Sam: -- I suppose, finding that lodestone and helping you on your 'acapakay'--
Taliesin: Ooh.
Liam: I lay down on the sand and just close my eyes.
Sam: -- was enough to win over your good graces. I've watched you in these last few battles, and you have been powerful--
Marisha: Okay-- thank you-- thank you.
Sam: I wasn't done.
Travis: (laughs)
Sam: Powerful, confident, and enthralling, and I vow to use this to the betterment of our entire team, to make sure that none of us fall in battle, not me, not Percy, not you, not either of the elves, not short stuff or the big guy.
Ashley: Ooh (laughs). Oh, you're so great.
Marisha: Thank you.
Laura: He doesn't know our names.
Sam: Thank you, so much.
Ashley: He doesn't know your names.
Marisha: Thank you, thank you. That's--
Travis: Look what you did.
Sam: I will cherish it always.
Marisha: Yeah, all right, thank-- you're welcome. Thank you.
Liam: Keyleth, you have just passed the final challenge of your Aramente.
Marisha: I think you're right.
Taliesin: I wonder--
Marisha: I can't take it back from him now. Or ever.
Matt: As you put it on, Doty's hand goes--
Sam: Oh.
Liam: Grog will take it back.
Sam: Oh, he's sketching me?
Matt: Doty begins sketching you. (all laugh)
Sam: No-- wait 'til I find the light, find the light, find the light--
Laura: Trinket goes up and pees on Doty's leg.
Matt: (lumbering bear noises)
Liam: I'm imagining a really simple etch-a-sketch drawing.
Matt: (sniffs, then pee sounds)
Sam: I don't want to move, I'll break the pose.
Matt: It's warm.
Laura: Oh, Trinket, that's not a tree. That's a robot.
Matt: (bear sounds)
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: Oh, dear.
Laura: It'll come off. Don't worry.
Matt: Doty does not seem the least perturbed by it.
Taliesin: Uh.. Keyleth, I've been thinking. What do you think the Aramente is supposed to teach?
Marisha: I've been thinking about that a lot myself.
Taliesin: I'm regretting that I hadn't been thinking about it until today.
Marisha: Well, they don't really tell you much. Just tell you to go back-- go out into the world and prove yourself a leader, with no real definition on what they think a leader should be.
Taliesin: Well, they tell you to go out and gather a group of friends, and then thrust yourself into a death-defying situation that is likely to get people killed.
Marisha: That is one way you could phrase it, yes.
Taliesin: I'm-- and I don't mean to worry you-- just be cautious, I don't-- I have that nagging feeling, and I'm hoping it's wrong, but I think it is possible that they feel you did not lose-- you did not learn the lesson of the Aramente.
Marisha: Well, that'll be a discussion that I have with Korren, with my father.
Taliesin: What if the lesson is loss? What if you're supposed to go down there and watch people that you love die?
Marisha: We're not barbaric! We're not-- no one wants to lose anyone on an Aramente.
Taliesin: The thing that defines the worst leader a people could have is a lack of empathy.
Marisha: Do you think I'm not empathetic?
Taliesin: I think that they make sure their leaders might-- I think it's possible, I don't-- I'm nervous. I think it's possible that they make sure their leaders are empathetic by making sure they know pain.
Marisha: Percy, do you not think that we have experienced ample amount of pain and loss over the course of this?
Taliesin: I do, I just hope that it was enough-- I just-- you know me.
Marisha: It's not a blood sacrifice, it's a tradition, it's meant to show us the world, and yes it's flawed and I want to fix that.
Taliesin: This is beautiful here, and I-- I look forward to leaving.
Marisha: Ha.
Taliesin: And I'm very proud of you, but I will be on my guard, just in case.
Marisha: I don't think my traditions really vary that much from yours, which could still be perceived as old-fashioned, if you will?
Taliesin: Every farm boy in Whitestone, once he's old enough to talk and work, names an animal, raises it, and butchers it.
Marisha: You know, it's interesting, Percy, I've always looked at you and I as that opposites-attract conundrum. As my best friend, I feel like you are always the natural born leader who has been running away from it ever since I met you, and I'm the one who's not as naturally gifted, but is racing towards it faster than--
Taliesin: I think I'm too cruel to lead. (sighs) Regardless, speaking of which, oh boy. Grog.
Travis: Yes?
Taliesin: I have something to say. In a moment of panic, I may have influenced your decision to save Taryon from the kraken. I instantly regretted it-- not because of you, Taryon, I do apologise for that-- I instantly regretted it. It was a poor decision. I fully apologize, and if you wish to keep my glasses, I totally understand, and at the very least, if I have a swift punch in the face coming, I completely understand. I'm so sorry. And I wish I could say I would never do it again, but I honestly don't trust myself that much. But I am really, really sorry, and if anything had happened I would have run in to save you as best I could.
Travis: You look so, like, constipated right now.
Taliesin: I think you're gonna punch me. (all laugh)
Travis: How did you influence my decision?
Taliesin: It's-- I don't know, sometimes I can just be unnaturally convincing.
Travis: Is that a bad thing?
Taliesin: In the wrong hands, which are my hands on occasion. I felt bad. I feel bad. I feel like I did-- I was not a good-- I feel like I made a poor decision, and put you in peril, and subverted your free will. Does that make-- Uh, no.
Laura: (laughs)
Taliesin: Small words.
Matt: You do, Grog, recall as you guys were swimming up to Vesrah, and you were kind of following up to the path, you thought, why did I save Taryon?
Travis: Yeah, why did I save Taryon?
Taliesin: Because I'm a jerk. That's why you saved Taryon, 'cause I'm-- because I can be a bad friend.
Travis: Mm. What does that have to do with me?
Taliesin: I just am trying to be honest with you, because I respect you, and I would hate for you to think that-- I-- (sighs) Terrible at this.
Marisha: Are you all right, Percy?
Taliesin: No, I'm not all right. I've made some bad decisions today and I've terrible thoughts and-- Ugh, I'm so tired.
Travis: Tary?
Sam: Yes, sir?
Travis: Are you glad you're alive?
Sam: Extremely.
Travis: Well, there you go.
Taliesin: How about we just say I owe you one?
Travis: I owe you one?
Taliesin: I owe you one.
Travis: I thought you said I say I owe you one.
Marisha: (laughs)
Taliesin: No, well, you can say that, too, but just know that-- that I owe you one. I owe you-- what-- It's--
Travis: How would that even work?
Taliesin: That would work--
Travis: We'd just be owing each other forever.
Taliesin: I just-- Have some seashells... And a skipping rock.
Travis: Ooh! (all laugh)
Taliesin: I feel better. That's all I needed.
Travis: I leave.
Taliesin: That's all I needed, I feel better.
Laura: Don't worry, Percy, he makes it--
Matt: (laughs) As Grog walks away with a skipping rock--
Travis: (laughs)
Liam: Somewhere in the middle of all that serious talk, I've pulled my sister off to the side and--
Travis: (laughs) So good.
Liam: -- have cajoled her into playing Airship. You know, when, so-- we used to do this as kids--
Travis: (laughs)
Liam: -- I lay on my back--
Laura: (gasps)
Liam: -- and I lift her up in the air--
Laura: Yeeeah!
Liam: -- with my feet holding her up--
Laura: I love this game!
Liam: -- and I'm kind of in pain but I can kinda do it.
Marisha: (laughs)
Laura: How do you even have strength for this right now?
Liam: (groans) I am ropy as fuck.
Laura: (laughs)
Liam: We are almost even now--
Laura: In what?
Liam: Well, we're twins, so, you've died, I've died. (all laugh)
Laura: Oh, right! I thought you meant in size.
Liam: No, no, no.
Ashley: (laughs)
Liam: But you've died twice. So--
Laura: Yes, I have.
Liam: You are more ambitious than I am.
Laura: (laughs) We've always known that.
Liam: (laughs) Yeah. You know, we really need a break.
Laura: Yes, we do.
Liam: I think we're going to hell soon, literally-- But maybe after that, maybe we could take a break.
Laura: I don't know if that's going to happen, dear. I sort of made a promise to your queen. Could you hear it on the other side?
Liam: I don't remember anything.
Laura: When we were trying to bring you back, I kind of sort of-- And I come down off of his feet (laughs) and stand up--
Liam: (painful groaning)
Laura: I kind of, sort of promised her we would hunt down Orcus.
Matt: You do recall hearing those-- As she says this, you remember now the various things that were said, as the ritual's kinda coming to clarity. And you realize the immensity of the offer that was given.
Laura: I mean, I was trying to get you back. I know that is really hard and we probably are going to have a very hard time finding Orcus and killing him since he's like, you know, a god, I think--
Travis: Ooh, ooh!
Marisha: (laughs)
Laura: Hey, you're here now! (snaps fingers) I'm sorry.
Liam: Hey, man, no judgment, it means you're just like me.
Laura: Yeah, right? Stupid decisions to bring the people you love back to your side. Very stupid.
Liam: What the fuck else are you gonna do?
Laura: Stupid to be a champion, stupid to kill Orcus, stupid all around.
Liam: Did you give a timeline?
Laura: No, no, no! I just kind of said we'd go and do it. So, it could be, you know. Ah, I just said we would do it.
Liam: No, you know, in all seriousness, I have been waiting for something. I don't know what. But I'm not running towards it.
Laura: (laughs)
Liam: I think we'll get there.
Laura: Yeah. Yeah. I have a feeling she pulls our fate strings anyway. She'll make sure we get there.
Liam: (sighs)
Laura: Mine's connected to yours. Wherever you go, I go. Unless it's, you know--
Liam: I start to cry a little bit.
Laura: (laughs) Aw! I'm glad you're back.
Liam: I don't say anything.
Matt: You hear what sounds like a whip crack of thunder.
Sam: (gasps)
Matt: As you glance over your shoulder and watch as Grog with the Titanstone Knuckles skips a stone so hard-- (all laugh)
Matt: -- that it shatters into multiple pieces upon making contact with the water.
Ashley: (claps) Grog!
Laura: (claps) Grog!
Taliesin: (slow claps) I can die happy now that I saw that.
Laura: That was amazing!
Ashley: That was cool!
Marisha: That was awesome!
Travis: Is that a record?
Marisha: Yeah!
Taliesin: It may be.
Ashley: Probably.
Travis: Wow.
Laura: I write ten on a sheet of paper and hold it up. (all laugh)
Travis: Where'd you get that paper from?
Laura: I have it in my bag.
Ashley: (laughs)
Travis: That's amazing.
Laura: I know.
Liam: I think you just hit Whitestone. (all laugh)
Taliesin: I'm showing Pike the jewelry I'm bringing back. So, since I can't give it to you now, I'm just modeling it.
Ashley: Oh, it's--
Taliesin: It's a little hand thing, it's got some tie things.
Ashley: (gasps) Percy, it's beautiful! I want it now.
Taliesin: I don't know if that will go well.
Laura: It will fall off of your form.
Taliesin: Patience!
Liam: Does it sink through-- slowly through the Jello?
Taliesin: I'll clean it off. (all laugh)
Matt: As the afternoon comes to a close and the sun slowly sets on the distant ocean horizon, the lights begin to brighten anew to usher in the eveningscape of Vesrah. A similar gathering of the people of Vesrah that you celebrated with the evening before comes to life, even more vibrant and excited at the tale of an Aramente completed. As this is transpiring, you guys are brought in, food is prepared--
Marisha: I'm in my fancy clothes, by the way.
Matt: Okay, yeah, fair enough. You guys-- wherever you can, as you guys--
Laura: Ooh, seashell bras.
Liam: I'm in the Deathwalker's Ward. (all laugh)
Laura: With salt crusted on it.
Marisha: Yeah, it's still a little soggy and damp.
Matt: As you guys are getting ready and brought into this, and people are beginning to come up and congratulate you, bringing their kids up to shake the hands of the future Voice of the Tempest, you watch as a group of figures appears on the outskirts of the light in this central meeting area. You glance over and watch as all of a sudden the nervousness kicks in, and everyone turns and looks, as there, dipping into the light, you see Captain Adella and the crew going, "Okay, so we've been waiting for quite a while and it looks like you're having a party without us. So. Mind if we join in?"
Marisha: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, come on!
Matt: "Told you!"
Taliesin: Pour.
Marisha: Toss a drink, yeah.
Matt: And the rest of the crew comes in, of the Drensala Vis.
Laura: What about the prisoner? Is he still on board?
Matt: "Oh yeah, no, we're leaving that fucker on the ship. We're not taking him here."
Laura: All right.
Matt: "So. Everything went fine, I suppose?"
Liam: Peachy-peachy.
Matt: "Great."
Marisha: Right as rain.
Matt: "Fantastic. Going back soon, then, huh?"
All: Yes.
Matt: "Great, first light of the morning, let's get back."
Travis: Are you in a rush?
Matt: "No, but the longer we're here, the more time we spend out wandering amongst the reef with these people." And she glances around, and as you look around, you do see a very comparably bohemian lifestyle of the water ashari.
Liam: Eyes Wide Shut?
Matt: Not quite that level.
Marisha: What's your definition of bohemian?
Matt: Yeah!
Liam: Eyes Wide Shut. (all laugh)
Matt: I'm so glad you don't live in Los Villas.
Sam: Like Venice people? Like beachy hippies.
Matt: Yeah, it's very Venice Beach.
Taliesin: Like Labyrinth muppets, maybe. Like the creepy head Labyrinth muppets.
Liam: Everybody looks like the Raven Queen. (all laugh)
Matt: But yeah. Drinks are had, the party celebrates, and then eventually Uvenda begins to approach, and everyone gets quiet, and she walks up towards you, Keyleth, and reaches out to take your hand, both of your hands in hers. "In completing the trial of the water ashari, I impart unto you now a gift. Something I, as far as I understand, have only been around long enough to learn. But seeing the strength that you hold, perhaps you can wield this as well."
Marisha: Okay?
Matt: As she takes your hands, she folds them over each other, and she encloses them in her tiny gnomish grasp. "Close your eyes." As you close your eyes, and you can hear the hush of people silencing each other around. "Now, the form of one who protects the elements is malleable. You can transcend this particular form and become the beasts of nature. You can become the creatures of the elements that we safeguard. However, those who've mastered the journey that you have? They can become so much more. Now walk with me." And she tugs on your hand. "Keep your eyes closed, but walk with me." And you guys watch as she backs up and leads Keyleth out of the pavilion, out into the darkness in the center of the main thoroughfare of Vesrah. The crowd wanders along, if you guys want to shuffle with. She leads Keyleth out, eyes still closed, and as soon as people start crowding in, she goes, (huff of breath), and the guards hold people back and leave a wide berth around. "Now. Keyleth. You've encountered many beasts, many dangerous and powerful creatures from all walks of the planes. Pick one."
Sam: (gasps)
Matt: "What do you see in your mind?"
Marisha: I think of the goristro, Yenk.
Matt: "Imagine what it's like to be filled with strength, to be filled with the power. Envision the horns, the snarl, the barrel-like fists." And you guys watch as Keyleth's form suddenly begins to shift and grow and where once was a half-elf Keyleth, you now see, towering above this tiny gnome, eyes still closed, a massive goristro.
Travis: No fucking way.
Taliesin: Oh, well, that's disconcerting.
Matt: Everyone goes (gasps) and as her hands leave yours, you feel something shift and change and you hear the slightly more distant voice of Uvenda say, "Now open your eyes." And you look down--
Marisha: (screams)
Matt: (laughs)
Taliesin: That's less disconcerting.
Laura: Is she stuck like that?
Matt: "No, no, she's fine. This is under her control."
Laura: Okay.
Liam: She's fine.
Matt: "This incantation is yours now. Be what you wish. Use these creatures."
Marisha: I turn into a beholder.
Matt: (swoosh) You watch as all her body--
Travis: Shut the fuck up.
Matt: -- shifts and becomes--
Travis: Shut up.
Matt: -- a meaty mass with a singular eye and many eyestalks and you watch as everyone takes two steps back (gasps)--
Travis: You can not do that now!
Laura: What is this?! What is this?! What the fuck?!
Travis: Are you serious?!
Marisha: (laughs)
Laura: What is this?!
Marisha: I am a golden god! (all laugh)
Matt: "Your shape is yours to change, Keyleth."
Marisha: I change into-- adult bronze dragon.
Matt: You watch as the beholder that's looking around excitedly suddenly shifts and grows two large bronze wings--
Ashley: (laughs)
Matt: -- claws emerge and the head extends.
Taliesin: Oh dear.
Liam: That is really hot.
Laura: But like, that's really big. How?
Marisha: I do a victory lap (whoosh).
Matt: (whoosh whoosh)
Laura: How is this possible?
Travis: Can she do the stuff they do?
Laura: Is she like a dragon for real? Does anybody--?
Matt: Uvenda turns to you as you're shouting this, everyone's kinda watching her fly over, you can see the little bit of light that glows from the city occasionally reflect off the metallic underbody of the dragon as it circles overhead in the dark night sky. Uvenda turns to you and goes, "Ah yes. Don't worry. These forms are hers to control."
Marisha: I turn and-- brass dragons have fire breath, right? Do they have fire breath?
Matt: I'm pretty sure.
Laura: No.
Taliesin: Very frightening.
Marisha: I do-- into the air, I just go (kwoosh)
Matt: I'm gonna look this up real fast so the internet doesn't hate me.
Marisha: See what happens.
Travis: You kill everyone on the ground. (all laugh)
Matt: Yeah, it is fire breath. So you watch as she flies off, she shoots forth this burning hot, bright jet of singular focused fire, not a napalm-level red dragon cone breath, but a singular focused beam of burning fire that just lights up all of Vesrah around. You see the hundreds of the denizens around go, "Oh!" as their faces glow against the dark sky around you.
Laura: I feel far less nervous about this Orcus thing now.
Ashley: Yeah.
Liam: What was that?
Laura: Ha. (laughs)
Travis: Wow.
Ashley: Wow.
Laura: That's insane.
Matt: Uvenda's just looking up and smiling, clasping her hands together.
Travis: Who needs a fucking magic carpet now?
Marisha: Oh yeah, yeah, yeah!
Travis: We got a jumbo jet.
Marisha: I come back down and I come down and I'm like (animal noises).
Laura: Can't you talk as a dragon? Can't dragons talk?
Marisha: Oh, that's right.
Travis: (laughs)
Marisha: I'm so used to Beast Shape! (all laugh)
Marisha: I'm so used to not being able to fucking talk!
Liam: She's gesturing and I'm already climbing on.
Travis: (animal noises) Oh she can change into a dragon but she's-- yeah.
Ashley: If I touch her, does she feel like a dragon?
Matt: Yeah. You feel the hard scales across her hide.
Marisha: So I can talk?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Hey guys! Guys, check it out! Ah, Ah.
Laura: I like the idea that it's just like your regular-ass voice coming out of--
Marisha: Yeah. I'm like, ah guys! Got little antlers.
Taliesin: This went so FernGully so quickly.
Matt: Yeah. It's Keyleth's voice but it's deeper, it's resonating, it quakes the sand on the ground near her when she speaks.
Travis: (deep voice) Hey guys.
Laura: What the fuck. What is this?
Travis: (deep voice) It's me, Keyleth.
Laura: Like, this is amazing, Keyleth.
Marisha: This is-- I don't know.
Sam: (whispering) She's amazing.
Laura: We should have completed your Aramente a lot sooner.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: You wanna go for a ride?
Travis: (deep voice) I'm so happy right now.
Laura: Yes!
Ashley: Yeah!
Marisha: Okay, all right. I pick up the half-elves.
Laura: And Pike!
Travis: Hey, hey!
Laura: Pike wanted to go too.
Marisha: And Pike!
Ashley: I did want to go. I want to go.
Liam: Don't let the jello fall apart.
Taliesin: There's always room for jello.
Ashley: It's fine if I fall apart. It happens.
Matt: Okay, as the tinier folks step onto the back of Keyleth-dragon, they take off into the sky. You watch as a bunch of the children now begin to try and line up now.
All: Aw.
Matt: And the parents are like, mm-hm.
Marisha: Yes.
Travis: I am clearly moving ahead of them to the front of the fucking line. (all laugh)
Matt: As Grog forces himself to the front of the line--
Ashley: I was here first.
Matt: -- like palms a child and just pushes it back, like Old School, just (pff) out of the way.
Travis: Yep.
Marisha: And I totally spend the next hour giving joy-rides to anyone who wants to.
Matt: And yeah, most of the folks of Vesrah begin to start giving in to it--
Marisha: Dragon rides.
Laura: Wow.
Matt: -- taking dragon rides from Keyleth over the night sky (laughs).
Travis: Wow.
Ashley: Wow.
Travis: Holy shit.
Marisha: I leveled up.
Laura: That's pretty fucking sick.
Matt: Yeah, and in fact, I'll go look at the logistics of this, but after that kraken battle, most everybody leveled up on that.
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: I'll send that out tonight via email to you guys.
Taliesin: Oh god.
Laura: Sweet!
Marisha: So that's Shapechange, right?
Matt: You have Shapechange as one of a possible 9th-level spell.
Sam: What is Shapechange?
Liam: That!
Sam: You can just become anything?
Laura: It's a ninth-level spell.
Marisha: I can change into anything that's a challenge rating of my level or lower.
Sam: Once?
Laura: Wait.
Sam: Or constantly?
Marisha: For an hour.
Laura: Dragons are your level?
Marisha: Adult dragons are.
Matt: An adult one. Not an ancient.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: Wow.
Laura: Wow, still, adult dragon is like, right on par.
Matt: It's not bad.
Liam: Guys, we've been playing this campaign for a while. (all laugh)
Travis: This is amazing.
Marisha: (sighs) I wasn't sure if I was ever gonna get here.
Travis: Fucking amazing.
Marisha: (heavy sigh) Yeah I can. It's for an hour and I can keep shapechanging into different things for an hour.
Travis: You can whip those beholder eyes at people?
Marisha: Yes, I can.
Laura: Oh my god.
Liam: Holy shit.
Sam: Wow.
Laura: And you can do all the things that they can do?
Travis: Is it at will or is it a random roll for which eye does what?
Marisha: It's like Beast Shape, so I keep my intellect, my wisdom, and my charisma, but I take on their physical stats--
Laura: Ah!
Marisha: -- and their abilities.
Ashley: You're a beast.
Travis: And same thing, like you drop the shape's hit points and then it reverts back to you.
Marisha: Yep.
Matt: You don't get legendary actions--
Travis: (laughs)
Marisha: I know!
Matt: -- or lair actions but you get all the rest of the abilities and physical attributes of the creature.
Sam: Wow.
Laura: I'd say that's pretty fucking sick.
Travis: Oh my god.
Liam: Forget about strawberry, how about raw-berry! (all laugh)
Laura: Ah man.
Taliesin: Juice Springsteen.
Ashley: Holy cow.
Matt: So eventually, as you feel the spell begin to dissipate, the shapechange coming to an end, you bring the last cluster of children and Grog, who has ridden now seven times. (all laugh)
Liam: (deep voice) Whee!
Travis: Ah!
Matt: As the night draws to a close--
Marisha: As the spell fades, I just give Grog a big hug and just kinda cry tears of joy into his chest for a little bit.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: And yeah, reverting back to your form, the party comes to an end. Uvenda comes up to you as you come back to your form and says, "I'm proud of you."
Marisha: Thank you. Truly.
Matt: "Now, return to your people victorious. You achieved what your mother could not and her memory lives on in you."
Marisha: Thank you.
Matt: And she turns--
Marisha: I will keep her-- Thanks. That's all.
Matt: "Good night." And she begins to walk off with her staff. You guys are able to rest for the evening, prepare yourselves for the following day's journey, however you wish that to be. So you get benefits of a long rest back. So you get half of your hit dice back, you are healed to full, you get your spells, you're good.
Travis: That was such a great party. (all laugh)
Marisha: That was a good party.
Ashley: Did you have so much fun, Grog?
Travis: Yeah, I rode the dragon all night. (all laugh)
Travis: It was great.
Marisha: That's true. I see Percy really quick. Are you still concerned?
Taliesin: Yeah, well, yes.
Marisha: (laughs)
Taliesin: Congratulations.
Marisha: Wouldn't be you--
Taliesin: No.
Marisha: I--if you weren't concerned.
Taliesin: No, and thank you for not being-- somebody has to be all right. I mean, I'm fine, I'm fine.
Marisha: Wouldn't be here without you, or the others. You know that, right?
Taliesin: I do.
Marisha: I can't do this alone and I-- To answer your question from yesterday, I think the problem of this Aramente is that it shows you the components of what you need to be a leader, but being a leader could take a lifetime to master. If you even can master such a thing. So lots still to go, this isn't the end.
Taliesin: I know.
Marisha: And I hope you stay with me.
Taliesin: I will, to the end.
Marisha: I need you.
Taliesin: I need you, too. But we're not all going to make it.
Marisha: Well, let's at least go home for now. Is that okay? Is that enough for now?
Taliesin: It certainly is. I am happy to try. But things are only going to get more complicated. Congratulations. That's very impressive.
Marisha: I feel like once you can turn into a dragon, things only get more complicated.
Taliesin: (laughs)
Marisha: That's, yeah.
Taliesin: I will thankfully never know.
Marisha: All right, let's go.
Liam: After she left our room to go find him, I start to suit up, and I'm looking in a full-length mirror at the new fucking kraken beak gouges down the front of me. And I notice that my two notes are out of place. So I'm going to shove them back into the folds that they're supposed to be in. And spend a couple minutes to button all the way up and leave the room.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Can I find Tary?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Oh, good morning.
Travis: No, it's like real late, right?
Sam: I don't know. Is it?
Matt: You haven't quite gone to bed yet.
Sam: Oh!
Matt: It's late evening.
Sam: Good evening!
Travis: Jesus, that fight knocked you goofy, didn't it?
Sam: I have not been that close to death ever before. But I feel like in a way I learned something from the experience.
Travis: What? (all laugh)
Sam: That's fair. (all laugh)
Sam: Tell me, I saw you up there fighting.
Travis: Mm-hm.
Sam: You were brave and strong.
Travis: Yep. Yep.
Sam: We were duking it out, you and me, 'til the very end of that fight and well, as one seasoned warrior to another--
Travis: Mm-hm.
Sam: Do you have any tips? Any notes for me? Any thoughts to improve my warfare skills? Should I move more? Should I think of cool one-liners to yell out as I hit my enemies?
Travis: Ooh, yeah. That always helps. Right? Someone like you, I would probably stay on the outside. You got a little in the crunch zone, right? You seem to have a good range on your weapons.
Sam: Well, yes, but my rod is best at close-up action.
Travis: Most rods are good close-up but, you know, if you could stay on the outside with it, maybe you'll have better success? But, I wanted to give you something.
Sam: Oh!
Travis: Yeah. It's like a last resort, right? Cause you went like eee! And it was not good.
Sam: No.
Travis: So I want to give you a magic egg. And I reach into the bag of holding and I take out a basilisk egg that I have no fucking idea how old it is. But, it's in there. There are six of them.
Matt: It's old.
Travis: This egg is very, very special.
Sam: Oh my god.
Matt: It's about this big and the outside of it has this very layered stone look to it. Almost like when plates shift and you watch old sediment stone stick out. And you can see the different types of stone layers, geologically. It's that kind of a texture down the side of it and it's like a dark gray, almost blue color.
Travis: This egg comes from a very ancient magical beast. If you find yourself in a dire need. Like in that last fight.
Sam: Yes. Yes.
Travis: If you break it and consume its contents, you will be granted immense power.
Sam: Really?
Travis: Indeed. But only in times of great need. I trust I don't have to emphasize how important that is.
Matt: Grog, make a deception check.
Travis: Shit! Come on big whammy.
Taliesin: I'm so proud of you, Travis. However this goes, I'm so proud of you.
Travis: Yes! 15.
Matt: Make an insight check, Taryon.
Liam: You're not Scanlan.
Sam: Eight. (all laugh)
Travis: I out-rolled somebody!
Liam: With your mind!
Taliesin: You used your mind.
Matt: This is a mighty gift.
Sam: Adding it to my list. Basilisk-- wait, I don't know what it is. It's just an egg. A magical egg.
Matt: A magical egg of power. To be consumed.
Marisha: It's like a Kinder Egg. There's a toy inside.
Matt: Kind of. Yeah.
Liam: Except it's full of sulfurous shit.
Travis: That shit is rank.
Laura: I imagine that I've been introducing Pike to the whole crew. Since you like to sail so much.
Ashley: Yeah. Hey, crew.
Sam: Thank you.
Travis: You're welcome.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: Is Doty, Dottie, his robot around?
Laura: Doodie.
Matt: The robot stays with him when he is told otherwise not to. So, it's hanging with him. When you're introduced to the crew, they're all your ilk. They're all salty, sarcastic folk. Captain Adella and you could-- they're all taken aback by your strangely-not-really-physically-there form. But, after a bit of trading some tales about a few interesting at-sea endeavors, you guys get along swimmingly and it's a fast friendship between you and Captain Adella.
Ashley: Fantastic.
Laura: She's fucking cool.
Ashley: She seems rad.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: So, what're you doing?
Ashley: Okay. I'm going to go over to Tary.
Matt: Okay. Taryon, after you're granted this majestic egg, as you're walking back to your homestead, the glowing gnome approaches you.
Sam: Oh! Hello.
Ashley: Hello again. I have a request of your robot. Your Doty. Am I saying this right?
Sam: My personal manservant.
Ashley: Your personal manservant.
Sam: Yes.
Ashley: Could he draw some things for me?
Sam: In Gnome, I say, absolutely m'lady. Whatever you would request.
Matt: You are a m'lady.
Marisha: We totally called it.
Matt: Continue.
Ashley: And in Common, I say back, thank you so much. Doty, would you mind drawing portraits for me?
Matt: Looks back to you, Taryon.
Sam: Do whatever the young lady asks.
Matt: Pulls the book out.
Ashley: Could you draw some portraits of this group? Of Grog. Of Vax and Vex. Keyleth and Percy.
Sam: Just a little bit of a note, here. He doesn't know who any of those people are.
Ashley: Okay. So the people that I point to. Could you just draw each of them please?
Matt: Everyone's kind of scattered to the four winds right now.
Ashley: Shit.
Laura: I'm there.
Sam: I'll help you point them out to Doty.
Matt: Yeah, Vex is there.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: Yeah, you point out to where they're all staying and--
Marisha: We're gathering up anyway. We're walking over.
Ashley: When you're all done, just bring them to me. Thank you so much.
Sam: Is there any particular style you'd like them to be drawn in?
Ashley: Just as realistic as possible.
Sam: Realism. All right.
Ashley: Realism.
Matt: All right.
Ashley: And I say, thank you, in Gnomish. In Gnome.
Sam: I say, you're warcome in Gnome. (all laugh)
Taliesin: I've been waiting for it.
Ashley: Okay. That's all.
Matt: All right. So as you all go to rest for the evening, Pike, the granted presence here through Sarenrae's will begins to withdraw. Her strength through the divine gate to keep you in this, seemingly drained. You sense that you'll be returning back to Emon until you're retrieved by your allies here.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: So, you'll only have a short time. As the rest of you guys go to rest for the evening and you all go to sleep, Percy, Keyleth, Vax, Vex, and Grog, I need you guys to roll perception checks.
Travis: I got this.
Sam: I'm just doing this all night.
Marisha: Don't fuck me, Gil.
Travis: Are we going Gil? Yeah. Don't fuck me, Gil.
Marisha: That's not bad.
Sam: You got to try Gil.
Taliesin: No! I'm going with that one.
Sam: I'm negating that. Roll Gil.
Taliesin: You don't get to negate that one.
Sam: I'm negating it. Roll Gil.
Travis: 19.
Matt: Oh!
Travis: A natural 19.
Laura: 29.
Taliesin: No I'm going with my first one. You don't get to negate my roll.
Liam: 22.
Sam: He rolled a three.
Marisha: 23.
Taliesin: I did not roll--
Matt: Wow!
Taliesin: I'm going with my first roll because he's a jerk.
Matt: All right. What was the first one?
Taliesin: 27. Jerk.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Your friends all rolled with Gil.
Matt: Throughout the evening--
Marisha: Rolling with Gil.
Matt: At some point in the night, each of you individually wakes up in the wee hours as a sound rouses you from your slumber as you glance over in one of the nearby open windowed walls. You see a large, metallic man-shape appear. And just start feverishly sketching while staring at you. (all laugh)
Matt: One, by one, by one, by one.
Laura: As our faces are like--
Sam: He likes to watch.
Liam: That was Tary's fucking automaton.
Marisha: I'm not dreaming. I'm not dreaming.
Taliesin: Okay, yeah.
Travis: Does anyone try to talk to the automaton?
Marisha: Oh, jeez. Oh, jeez.
Taliesin: I think we'd just stay perfectly still?
Laura: Yeah. (all laugh)
Taliesin: And try and lift our chin and push forward.
Laura: 'Til it looks like a good angle, at least.
Liam: I slowly pull the sheet up--
Marisha: Yeah, higher, yeah.
Travis: I pull the sheet a little lower. (all laugh)
Matt: And Doty continues sketching, adjusting to the new positions.
Liam: Moves an adjacent piece of paper next to it and keeps going.
Matt: Keeps taping them on. All right.
Ashley: Is he done?
Matt: I will say--
Ashley: I'm just afraid I'm gonna (whoosh).
Matt: I will say, for the sake of narrative of this, the energy will carry you through to the morning.
Sam: Yes.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: So, upon everyone waking, and gathering again before heading however way you wish, the crew is by their boats to return to the ship, Uvenda is waiting to see you off, and, as you all begin to gather, you watch Pike as she approaches, her form flickering in the familiar visual of a temporary time before she has to return--
Laura: Oh no!
Ashley: It's okay.
Matt: As you approach to speak to everybody, suddenly (grinding robot movement) from the side, Doty seems to just slam into view, like some weird hype man.
Travis: A hype man! Yeah yeah!
Matt: And immediately just hands you a metallic fist filled with pages torn out of the tome.
Ashley: Thank you so much.
Matt: And then runs off towards Taryon.
Ashley: Tary. Come here.
Sam: Who, me?
Ashley: Yes, you.
Taliesin: Couldn't be.
Sam: Hello.
Ashley: Hello. So, I figured you would have a little bit of an easier time if you know the names of the people that you're spending time with. I had him make you some, I don't know, maybe some flash cards. So, I take out a quill. I hold up a photo. Who is this?
Matt: What you see before you, is a very beautifully realistically drawn image of a female half-elven druid, and a male half-elven rogue paladin, both clutching bed-sheets, going-- (all laugh)
Sam: That's amazing. In the same drawing?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Oh! But how did-- I mean, they would have had to have been--
Ashley: I didn't realize he was going to draw them in their sleep. So, let's just--
Liam: Please, go through every picture, please!
Sam: Oh. I-- so many more questions than answers. (all laugh)
Marisha: It hurts!
Sam: One of those two was dead yesterday, and yet they still found time to-- well. The one on the left, I lovingly refer to her as Antlers. She is the most powerful and leader of the group.
Ashley: All those things are true, but take this quill. Now, next to her picture, please write 'Keyleth'.
Sam: Doty? You heard her.
Ashley: No! No. No, no. No.
Matt: Doty stops when she says no.
Ashley: You are going to write it down.
Travis: Mama Pike!
Ashley: Do you know how to write?
Marisha: Mama Pike.
Sam: Of course I know how to write. I'm an educated man.
Ashley: Okay, I would--
Travis: Oh god, how does he know how to write?
Laura: (gasps)
Sam: In what language?
Ashley: What language do you prefer?
Sam: I prefer Gnome when I'm with you.
Ashley: Okay.
Liam: Old habits die hard.
Travis: Yeah, yeah!
Sam: It's good practice.
Travis: Little bleed-through.
Ashley: Okay. So write down 'Keyleth.'
Sam: Odd vowel sounds in your weird language. Okay! Key-leth.
Ashley: The man laying next to her--
Sam: Mm-hm?
Ashley: Do you know his name?
Sam: Little Elf Boy.
Ashley: I would never say that again. His name is Vax.
Sam: With a 'B'? Like Bax?
Ashley: With a 'V', as in--
Sam: Vagina?
Ashley: Vagina. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Manna from heaven. Manna from heaven.
Sam: Got it.
Laura: Oh god.
Sam: 'X'. All right.
Ashley: Next up.
Sam: You know what, that one sounds familiar, I feel like he's introduced himself to me.
Ashley: Okay. Next up, who's this?
Matt: This is another pair. (laughs) This one--
Travis: I'm so happy.
Matt: --less shy. It appears to be a human male, looking confused, with glasses pressed up above the top of the forehead, and a half-elven, dark-haired, female, on top--
Laura: (laughs)
Matt: -- glancing back with a 'don't you fucking dare' expression.
Marisha: Yeah. (all laugh)
Sam: Oh! Oh, well. I--
Ashley: Yes, I know, you're learning so much.
Sam: May I, for a moment?
Ashley: Sure!
Sam: Do you think this is up? Or--
Ashley: You could have it any way you like it. (all laugh)
Liam: Oh my god.
Sam: I've read about that. All right.
Ashley: Just looking at the faces, then, who do you think they are?
Sam: The happy one is Little Elf Girl--
Ashley: Ooh. I would definitely not ever say that to her.
Sam: All right. All right. What's her real name?
Ashley: Her name is Vex.
Sam: All right. Vex.
Ashley: And you know that her and Vax are twin brother and sister?
Sam: I could tell by the bone structure--
Ashley: Okay.
Sam: -- and the contempt. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Oh! Oh.
Ashley: Now. (laughs) The man laying next to her, what is his name?
Sam: Percival Fredrickstein Von Musel Korrolo de Rolo the third. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Well done!
Sam: Almost! Almost!
Travis: Oh man!
Sam: Almost! Almost! Klossowski de Rolo the third!
Taliesin: Close enough!
Sam: Percival--
Taliesin: Close enough!
Sam: --Percival Fredrickstein Von Musel--
Taliesin: Muselix.
Marisha: (laughs) Von Muselix.
Sam: Argh, so close!
Liam: You know what? The Klossowski, Klossowski--
Sam: Klossowski de Rolo the third!
Taliesin: It's a little--
Laura: Gets ya every time.
Liam: That was bullshit. That was bullshit.
Taliesin: That all depends on how much whiskey. That's fair.
Ashley: Please write it down.
Taliesin: That's a whiskey-based pronunciation.
Sam: That one I'm going to do in Common. (all laugh)
Sam: And you know what? I'll just abbreviate the middle part.
Taliesin: That's okay.
Sam: P... de Rolo.
Liam: What's Percy's rapper name?
Ashley: Great. Two more to go. Who's this?
Matt: Well see, all right. This one is Pike, in her gnomish form, still wearing her armor in her astral form, looking like she realized she didn't phrase it properly when she made the request. And being the last one sketched, and that moment her expression says, 'Oh no.' (all laugh)
Travis: Oh no.
Sam: Before I answer, uh, (accented) answer--
Marisha: An-swer.
Sam: -- just a quick process question, here.
Ashley: Okay.
Sam: In the other images, there was some revelry, some intercourse happening. Is that-- now that I'm a full-fledged member, do I-- (all laugh)
Sam: Do I get to partake? Is this how it works with everyone? Or is it just certain members--
Travis: Holy shit.
Sam: Is it a hierarchy? Is it some sort of a--
Travis: Oh god.
Sam: -- a cultish--
Travis: Oh my god.
Sam: -- thing, where you have to prove yourself sexually and in battle, or-- how does that work?
Travis: I can't even handle this.
Sam: Or is it-- am I misreading this?
Ashley: You know, I think you should just continue to try to explore that. (all laugh)
Ashley: Because--
Travis: Wow.
Ashley: It would just be great just to see what happens. You never know, Tary, you just never know.
Sam: All right.
Ashley: I would never tell you no.
Laura: (gasps)
Ashley: No! Not me-- (all laugh)
Ashley: Let me rephrase. I would never tell you no to not trying with the people of the group.
Sam: So you're saying that membership has its privileges?
Ashley: Mayhaps.
Laura: Oh god.
Ashley: Do you know my name?
Sam: Daughter of Sarenrae, I'm guessing.
Ashley: No. It's Pike.
Sam: Hm. Pike.
Ashley: And last, but certainly not least--
Matt: Whoa.
Sam: Oh boy. (all laugh)
Liam: Narrate it, Matt.
Sam: Doty, she said realism.
Matt: (creaks)
Sam: Really? (all laugh)
Matt: And there, in a classic Michelangelo-style pose, one knee cocked to the side, the beard fluffed, the rippling scarred muscles, and the obvious half-giant side of Grog Strongjaw before you on the page.
Liam: That is not a picture of a goliath and a halfling, by the way.
Sam: I mean, how does he walk?
Taliesin: With confidence and pride.
Travis: Pick a leg.
Ashley: Yes.
Sam: Wow. Wow.
Ashley: I know.
Sam: That is just-- that is primal.
Ashley: He took some artistic liberties with this one.
Sam: Huh.
Laura: Ho ho ho!
Liam: Made it smaller.
Sam: All right. I've been taking to calling him Jumbo, or the Big Guy.
Ashley: Okay.
Sam: And it seems that I was correct. (all laugh)
Ashley: Well, this--
Matt: This joke went too far.
Ashley: -- this is Grog.
Sam: Say that again?
Ashley: Grog.
Sam: Grog. Okay.
Ashley: And that is my very best friend.
Sam: You know, I have learned that he is a confident ally, and a friend to me as well. And I will do my best to protect him in battle in your absence.
Ashley: Well (laughs) thank you. That is very, very kind of you. So, before I leave, my request is that you look at these every night before bed until you learn them.
Travis: I love it so much.
Liam: Love Mama Pike.
Sam: Can you-- in this form, can you see me all the time?
Ashley: Yes.
Sam: I will.
Ashley: So I will know if you're not looking at your flashcards every night. (all laugh)
Ashley: This is so stupid.
Liam: This is Dungeons & Dragons, man!
Taliesin: This is amazing.
Liam: This is Dungeons & Dragons!
Sam: Milady, I swear it by my name, I will do so as you request. Thank you for saving one of my allies today, and wherever you are in the world, know that we are fighting the good fight, and I will keep your friends safe. Your friends, Greg--
Ashley: Nope.
Sam: -- Vox, Vox, Kiko--
Taliesin: Kiko works.
Sam: -- and Percival Frederickstein Von Musel--
Taliesin: Let it roll.
Sam: -- Klossowski De Rolo the third.
Taliesin: That's pretty good. (all cheer)
Sam: Ah.
Ashley: I realise that was off of memory, so I'm gonna let it slide, but yes.
Sam: I have a few more nights of studying to do.
Ashley: You do. Okay. It was wonderful to spend time with you. I'm gonna just-- I'm gonna go back over here.
Sam: All right.
Ashley: Goodbye.
Sam: Serf trervles. (all laugh)
Marisha: (laugh) Serf trervles.
Taliesin: (laugh) Serf trervles.
Travis: Holy shit.
Matt: I did not expect it to go that far.
Sam: (laughs)
Travis: My fucking--
Taliesin: Wow.
Travis: -- my ears hurt.
Liam: I have a fresh new set of six-pack abs after the last ten minutes.
Matt: Seriously.
Sam: We gotta get Ashley back. We gotta bring her back.
Matt: All right, so as you guys get over--
Sam: We gotta get Ashley back.
Ashley: Sorry, that went a little bit longer than I thought.
Matt: No! No!
Taliesin: It was so good!
Matt: You know--
Laura: That was awesome.
Matt: In Doty being literal, it lead to all of that joy. Holy shit. So. As you guys all gather on the beaches in the late morning of Vesrah, Adella and her crew are waiting at the boats to return to the ship. And Uvenda and a few other folks there, you see Durent, you see Yulan, the little boy that met you when you first got here, and a few of the other folks that you met that evening, all waiting, and as you approach, Uvenda nods, and, "It has been an absolute pleasure to have you, Vox Machina, at the sides of Keyleth, to come and spend time with our people, to celebrate the completion of a difficult journey. I would request before you leave, to please return the goggles and neck pieces that we lent you."
Marisha: Yeah.
Liam: It's like an IMAX theater.
Matt: Kind of. They go and collect the pieces from you as you go on. "And best of luck in your future journeys. If we, the Ashari of Vesrah, can be of aid to you in the future, please let us know."
Marisha: Thank you for everything. I'm sure we'll be in contact soon.
Matt: Kaitiyaki.
Marisha: Kaitiyaki.
Matt: And they turn around and start walking their way back to the center of Vesrah. Some of the kids looking over their shoulders, kind of waiting to see what you're going to do. Adella is waiting there at the ship, "All right, so, what's the plan?"
Marisha: I mean, I totally could Tree Stride us anywhere, but I kind of want to take the boat again.
Travis: Yeah, yeah, yeah, we're getting all our money's worth out of the boat.
Marisha: Yeah, we paid a lot, yeah.
Travis: What are we gonna do?
Marisha: To Emon for now?
Liam: Well, Hotis is going to come for Pickle and I at some point, but we need to do a little more homework this time.
Laura: Where can we study? The Cobalt Reserve? Is it still standing at all in Emon? Are there any books left?
Marisha: We can go see.
Liam: Gotta go to the liberry.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: We also haven't looked at any of the findings from Raishan's cave.
Travis: Oh yeah.
Taliesin: No, not yet.
Travis: Lots of books to read, real exciting.
Marisha: Well, let's at least get back to Emon, that's the main port town.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: It's a starting point.
Marisha: It's a starting point.
Taliesin: We can also have them start looking at the books while we're away, telling us if they find anything of value.
Laura: That's true. Probably need to start studying Orcus as well.
Travis: What?
Liam: Orcas, orcas, after all of that under-sea--
Laura: All those killer whales.
Liam: -- struggle we need to be up to par.
Travis: Ah, know our allies?
Taliesin: There'll be time on the ship. Let's take our time, before the Orcas.
Matt: All right. At this point Pike begins to flicker.
Laura: No!
Ashley: It's okay, I'll see you guys very soon.
Liam: Jello shot, where you going?
Laura: Back home?
Ashley: Yeah, back home. Jello shot? (laughs)
Marisha: We're heading to Emon so we'll see you there, okay?
Ashley: Okay, I'll see you soon--
Travis: Wait, quick squeeze!
Ashley: Quick squeeze!
Matt: And she vanishes in your grasp.
Travis: Ah, no! Ahh!
Marisha: No, no, no, she's okay.
Sam: No, no, no.
Laura: No, no, she's okay, she's fine.
Liam: Twin on each arm pulling.
Matt: It's not enough.
Taliesin: It'll be fine, he's just going to make himself pass out, it'll be just fine.
Marisha: True.
Liam: Percy, get over here and pull!
Taliesin: I want to see, let him sleep it off.
Marisha: Just let him sleep, let him sleep it off.
Travis: (wails)
Matt: You guys make your way onto the ship with Captain Adella at the helm, the boat turns around, navigates the thin pathway between these exterior reefs, and eventually to the open seas of Ozmit.
Marisha: I-- if you're interested, Adella, because I'm feeling pretty spiffy after--
Matt: She's holding onto the wheel like, "You worry me already."
Marisha: Okay, all right, I can control the winds and give us forwards-facing winds for a solid hour if you want. You want it? You want a little, turn this into a speed boat? You know? See how fast it goes? I don't know what this means, I've just seen other sailors do it so.
Travis: In a lot of countries it means one thing, especially when sailors do it.
Matt: "Be my guest."
Marisha: Okay, I cast fifth-level Control Winds. I'm going to do just a solid gust behind us for a good hour.
Matt: Okay, and with this consistently used, you guys can cut about half of the travel time back to Emon.
Travis: Nice.
Matt: So what would normally be, depending on weather, like five, six, seven days, you get there in three.
Laura: Nice.
Matt: Through the use of that, your general Control Weather abilities and stuff-- it's pretty fantastic. Thinking in the back of your head as you travel that while you've completed your Aramente, it is not done, you still have to return to complete your Aramente. You guys eventually find your way, coming into the docks on the western side of Emon, the city still in the throes of rebuilding, restructuring, it's busy, people are returning, flocking to the streets. It's very warm and welcoming to come back to a city that is coming to life again. Where the grim reality post-Thordak's fall has now been replaced with, it seems to be a vibrant, buzzing energy of recovery and moving forward. This still is the central city of Tal'Dorei, and the people who have returned to this are bringing it back as soon as they can to the splendor it once held, being the jewel city of this continent. You guys, after docking Adella and the crew, which I can't recall, did you pay them in advance?
Laura: Mm-hm.
Matt: Great.
Laura: No, I'm sure I did, marked it down, so.
Matt: I'm pretty sure you did.
Laura: Oh no, I didn't, because we had decided on 150 gold per day. So, we went back quicker than we thought so three days back, five days there?
Matt: Mm-hm.
Laura: And then how many days were we in--
Matt: Technically, two.
Taliesin: Two.
Matt: One, two nights in Vesrah.
Laura: So ten? So just over 1,000 gold, that's good.
Sam: I'll take care of it.
Laura: Are you going to write her an IOU?
Sam: No, I'll pay her in gold.
Laura: Taryon, really?
Sam: I hired you all, it's only the right thing, Vex.
Laura: Wow. Thank you, Taryon.
Sam: I'm a man of my word.
Laura: I'm going to stand by your side as you pay her.
Matt: Captain Adella's there with her crew behind her. "It's been an absolute pleasure. Should you require our assistance again, you know where to find us, and if not, we're busy making money elsewhere, fuck off."
Sam: 1,500?
Matt: She takes the coin purse from you.
Sam: Plus 150 tip.
Matt: Takes that, hands it to one of her-- her first mate--
Sam: Plus 200 for any damages to your ship.
Matt: "It was quite damaged." Passes it off to her first mate again and you can see the first mate is kind of the sheepish mousy gentleman who is currently in process of counting all the coins as they come in, he's, like, the on-board accountant and he's just-- "We're good." "Wonderful. Thank you so much for your patronage. Wish you all a fond farewell. Now shoo."
Laura: Taryon, thank you.
Sam: It's a pleasure doing business with you.
Laura: All right.
Matt: You guys head into the city, and with each street corner there's another building with a roof that's being re-roofed. You can see walls being re-stoned and structured. You can see carts being brought in from the docks as trade has now begun anew within the city, and there is a semblance of culture, life and society continuing to still re-emerge and spread with each visit to the city, and it's very heartwarming and harkening to the good that you've done through the struggles and challenges leading up to this time.
Liam: I'm sorry, old man, who's in charge here these days?
Matt: "In charge of what?"
Liam: The city? Who's running things?
Matt: "Oh, the Council."
Liam: They're doing all right?
Matt: "I think so?"
Liam: Okay, everything steady as she goes?
Matt: "I mean, my house is in ruins and I haven't seen my grandchildren but--"
Laura: Wow.
Sam: (laughs) Jesus.
Taliesin: Well, that was English, well done.
Matt: "Could I?"
Taliesin: That was the most English thing I've ever seen in my life.
Liam: Sure thing, Grandfather.
Matt: "Good day to you." Then he just wanders off.
Laura: Can I just pull Keyleth aside as we come on land? And just say, I was very impressed with you. For a long time, I've harbored a bit of doubt, I'm sorry to say, and when you brought us away from the kraken, I was very angry and very fearful. But you've proven yourself, so much, and I want to say I'm sorry.
Marisha: There's no need for an apology. Just, you being there means everything.
Laura: I believe in you.
Marisha: That means a lot, coming from you, because I think you're just the coolest. I'm sorry if I ever put you or your brother in harm's way. Or anyone else.
Laura: We all did it willingly. He especially.
Marisha: Well. Thank you. What now?
Laura: Well, we still have some things to take care of. We have a crown to get on your head. I can't believe you're going to be royalty. Royalty-royalty.
Marisha: Royalty's a strong word.
Laura: Rule royalty. That's pretty fucking cool, Keyleth.
Marisha: Well, you're pretty cool yourself.
Laura: Ah, well.
Marisha: All Grand Mistress Nightwatch. What's it called? Whatever.
Taliesin: I'm not helping. (all laugh)
Laura: Keyleth. I'm glad my brother found you. I'm glad we all found you.
Marisha: I'm glad I found you guys.
Laura: Love-love.
Marisha: Learned a lot from you, so thank you. She winked at me again.
Matt: As you guys make your way through the city towards the temple district of Emon, you find your way to the temple of Sarenrae, and as you begin to step on the outside, the door's already open, and knowingly awaiting, Pike steps out with a smile to greet you. (all cheer)
Ashley: It's okay! I just disappeared 'cause I was in the shimmery. I was the cotton candy. You didn't hurt me at all.
Travis: I like cotton candy.
Ashley: Yeah, but-- (all laugh)
Ashley: I shouldn't say-- I wasn't like that, then.
Travis: Oh, okay. I'm sorry if I hurt you.
Ashley: No, you didn't at all!
Travis: Okay.
Ashley: I didn't even feel it.
Travis: Wow, you are really getting strong.
Ashley: I just disappeared.
Travis: Yeah. You distappeared. (all laugh)
Ashley: Hi, everybody!
Taliesin: Hand over a big pile of seashell jewelry.
Ashley: What is this?
Taliesin: Now, there we are.
Marisha: Now you can wear it.
Ashley: Oh, yes! Ooh.
Taliesin: It fits, good. I was a little worried.
Marisha: He spent the entire time on the boat braiding macrame, it was crazy.
Taliesin: I've only got the medium glasses right now, so--
Marisha: He's getting into beading, it's odd. (all laugh)
Ashley: I give him a big hug.
Taliesin: Everybody needs a hobby.
Marisha: No, it's great.
Taliesin: Macrame might be mine.
Matt: Pike runs up and gives you a big hug.
Liam: Stress relief.
Ashley: I give him a big hug.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Ashley: Hello, Tary.
Sam: Hello, Pike. In the flesh, this time. I hope that you've seen that I've been doing as you asked every night.
Ashley: Can I insight check him?
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: Did we hear him say that?
Matt: Under his breath, yeah.
Taliesin: Okay.
Laura: I know, right?
Ashley: Natural 20.
Sam: Absolutely.
Matt: Yeah, telling the truth, straight up. There is a look of genuine awe and fear in his eyes when he looks at you.
Ashley: I'm very proud of you. You need to continue until you know it by heart.
Sam: I think I've learned their first names at least.
Ashley: I know. (all laugh)
Ashley: You have.
Travis: (deep voice) I know. (all laugh)
Sam: Well. What do we do now, fellows?
Marisha: To the keep?
Liam: Yeah, you wanna see where we live?
Laura: To the keep, we need to stop by the library.
Sam: Sure, yes, absolutely.
Laura: Yeah, let's go to Greyskull.
Taliesin: Give you a place to put down your things for a bit.
Marisha: Do you have the papers with you that you pulled from Raishan? Are those with us?
Matt: They're in the bag of holding.
Marisha: I'll help you research those.
Taliesin: Yeah, we'll do a bit of that.
Marisha: All right.
Matt: So you guys make your way back to Greyskull Keep--
Taliesin: I'll show you the other workshop.
Sam: (gasps) Ooh, there's something I need to tinker.
Taliesin: Oh, good. I actually need to talk to you about that.
Matt: Much to your joy, some of your original servants have returned from Whitestone. (all cheer)
Laura: Yay! Who all came back?
Matt: You do see within there, Laina and Erwin--
Liam: Holy shit!
Laura: I was so worried about them!
Matt: Laina greets you as you come up, she's like, "Oh goodness me, it's been so long, all of you. Well, come in, it's so good to see you. Well, as you were wandering about, we were all just keeping it down over there in Whitestone, but it's so nice to be back. This place, it needs some work. Please don't be judging, I'm trying to clean as best I can!" And the place looks pretty good, based on the last time you saw it, but there's still dust gathered around. She looks genuinely nervous, her hair's kind of wracked.
Laura: You're doing a great job.
Liam: We're all a bit of a work in progress, it's fine, dear.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: That's very fair.
Matt: She turns and Erwen comes up, you see him, you know, the very very old halfling male with his long gray ponytail. "And it is great to see all of you once more."
Marisha: Erwen!
Liam: Erwen.
Marisha: You're still alive!
Taliesin: Yeah, how did you manage?
Liam: We thought natural causes might, you know.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: "Which was very possible, yes."
Travis: Can I insight check him?
Matt: Yes, you may.
Travis: 19. No, is that a natural 20? It's a natural 20.
Ashley: That's a natural 20.
Marisha: Yeah, Gil!
Laura: Oh! He's coming over-- whispers about Erwen.
Sam: He is dead. He is a dead man.
Marisha: He's Hotis!
Liam: He has consumption.
Sam: Guys, use the code 'lootcrate' to get 10% off your monthly loot crate.
Travis: Well, I reach and I grab the dwarven thrower. Welcome back, you son of a bitch. (all laugh)
Liam: (Grog voice) And I crush him into jam.
Matt: "I must say, I greatly appreciate you all being so quick in getting us out of that whole dragon mess. I was rightfully frightened for my life. Anyway, I need to continue making your beds." And he slowly begins shuffling off towards the stairway.
Taliesin: Well.
Marisha: Aw.
Ashley: I love him.
Marisha: He's too good for us.
Ashley: Yeah.
Taliesin: That is unexpected.
Marisha: Yes, he's still alive.
Sam: So, this is your house?
Liam: This is our keep, man.
Marisha: Yes! This is where we would have dinner.
Taliesin: It's more of a summer home.
Marisha: Oh! And that's a giant portrait of one of our members who you haven't met, he made it riding on a unicorn. It's great. You should show him the basement.
Taliesin: Oh no, we're going to get there, but I figure we give him the full tour.
Travis: Are we gonna tell him the fucking name or what?
Laura: Yeah, it's Greyskull Keep.
Liam: Fool.
Sam: That's a really cool name.
Laura: I know, right?
Sam: Wow. That's excellent!
Taliesin: I've been thinking about redecorating.
Sam: Have you lived here very long, because there's--
Travis: It's on and off.
Taliesin: Well, summer home really.
Laura: Unfortunately, not too long.
Liam: We've been vacationing from it for a while.
Sam: You might want to consider different keepers of this place. It seems a bit--
Laura: There were fucking dragons, Tary!
Sam: All right.
Laura: Dragons!
Sam: You're right, it's just, I'm just not used to-
Taliesin: No, but if you have any input on decor or otherwise, we would be interested.
Sam: Lots of murals, lots of tapestries.
Taliesin: Oh, I would assume.
Travis: Most of the murals are of one of our friends, but yeah.
Taliesin: We'll vary it up a bit.
Liam: I don't know how long we're staying here, but you can have my old room. You got a room.
Sam: Where will you sleep?
Laura: (laughs)
Taliesin: In my old room. (all laugh)
Sam: All right, sure.
Laura: This is ridiculous.
Taliesin: It's good coffee today.
Matt: This is the second time Polymachina has come up in our campaign? Taryon and the two guards in Syngorn-- really confused. All right.
Taliesin: And I'll definitely show him the downstairs, and anytime you want to use the workshop downstairs-- it's a bit thin at the moment.
Matt: Yeah, most of the tools have been stolen.
Sam: Well, we'll have to go in town and buy some replacements for you.
Taliesin: Yes.
Liam: You can make shit, though, what can you make?
Sam: Anything I set my mind to, if I have enough raw materials.
Liam: Hats?
Sam: Sure. You need a hat?
Taliesin: Invisibility?
Sam: Sure, I've done that before. I've given you invisibility coins.
Liam: Do you have a specialty? Do you do clothing, or--
Sam: Anything alchemic.
Taliesin: Teleportation?
Sam: I don't think I can do that, but anything that combines a little bit of magic with a little bit of engineering I can probably manage.
Liam: What about a beard trimmer?
Sam: A beard trimmer?
Liam: Yes.
Travis: What?
Liam: He's looking a little shaggy.
Taliesin: Death has changed you.
Sam: Sure, that seems like an easy thing to do. You seem pretty clean-shaven, though.
Liam: Yeah, I don't grow thick. It's pretty sparse, actually.
Laura: What?
Ashley: Whoopsie.
Laura: Uh.
Taliesin: Oh.
Liam: Dirty birds.
Laura: I go to the library.
Liam: Wait! Where're you going? I want to go to the library. Yeah, beard trimmer.
Sam: I'm on it.
Liam: I need a beard trimmer.
Sam: I'm on it, Vax.
Taliesin: Feel free to restock whatever's missing. Keyleth and I, I think at the very least, and maybe anybody else who wants to go upstairs and start poring through the wonderful private nooks and crannies of the library, please.
Travis: How are you going to do that, by the way?
Taliesin: Nooks and crannies?
Travis: Yeah, like, doesn't that require reading?
Taliesin: I've got-- well, they're not very good, are they?
Travis: No, they're not, are they?
Taliesin: Do I have any spare-- I don't have any spare glasses, do I?
Travis: What do you need?
Taliesin: I think I need the glasses.
Travis: What do you got?
Taliesin: Hm.
Laura: You already got his ascot, don't you?
Travis: Yep.
Taliesin: Let me think about that for a moment. Carry on.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: All right.
Ashley: Grog, did you steal Percy's glasses?
Travis: No, he actually gave them to me.
Ashley: Oh!
Travis: Yep. But I found out from Vex, that when you trade, you get something in return and last time, I got a title. Yep.
Ashley: You did?
Travis: Yeah I'm the Grand Doopa Babink of All Didedah. (all laugh)
Ashley: That sounds fun.
Travis: Yeah. It's a top secret title and it comes with all the land and money, and a bunch of short names.
Taliesin: I'm very quickly going to craft something super simple.
Matt: What're you crafting?
Ashley: Lands and money where?
Taliesin: I want to make a little foil pinwheel out of tin.
Travis: I don't know. Probably everywhere.
Matt: Yeah. Make a tinkering check.
Ashley: I always knew you were royalty.
Laura: (laughs)
Taliesin: It's proficiency plus dex?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: I can never remember. Well, you know, that's probably good enough. Let's see. 18?
Matt: You just didn't roll a one.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: You're fine. Yeah, you produce a-- with what little materials you have there-- raw materials left, you happily do so.
Taliesin: I have made a tiny pinwheel. It spins. And it's made of metal.
Marisha: I do a little gust cantrip to blow it.
Taliesin: And I put it on your lapel or your little strap that counts as a-- I just put it in a belt loop.
Ashley: That's the cutest thing.
Travis: Am I a fucking child?
Taliesin: Now you know if there's wind blowing. This is what I had I'm really like-- I'll give the glasses back when I'm done with them. This is a rental charge.
Travis: Because of my high office, I will forgive this offense. Come back when you're serious. Cloak of smashing, title, whatever. I'm sure you're very smart. You'll think of something.
Marisha: You want another title?
Travis: I'll keep this as a deposit though. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Shit.
Marisha: Just give him another title.
Taliesin: Oh dear.
Matt: All right, so you guys go to the library. What're you looking for specifically?
Laura: What're we doing? Researching something. Hotis? And like the Nine Hells.
Liam: Hell.
Matt: Investigation check.
Liam: Orcus?
Laura: All of it. Ooh! 26!
Liam: Which one are we doing?
Laura: Investigation.
Liam: Investigation?
Taliesin: I'm just going to help with the spines of books at this point.
Liam: 23.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Damn it!
Marisha: Yeah I'll do the reading for Percy until he gets his glasses back.
Matt: There you go. You're hard-pressed to find anything in your library that gets very specific. There are mythological mentions of the Nine Hells, of multiple layers, of demon princes. But the books that you have at your disposal largely speak about them like a fairy tale. Or talk about historical mentions of them through the history of Exandria, of the betrayer gods, and the old age of arcanum days. But nothing specifically about the hells. So even with the research, you just don't have those books in the keep.
Laura: We got to go somewhere better.
Liam: Vasselheim. Isn't there a library there?
Laura: There's a library here. The Cobalt Reserve. It was just kind of smashed, but I wonder if there's still books there.
Liam: Is it blown to shit?
Matt: The Cobalt Reserve is in Westruun.
Laura: Just kidding. It's in Westruun.
Matt: But it is essentially the largest collection of the most dense and sacred books on the continent.
Liam: Hey, that's a good idea you just had.
Laura: Hey!
Liam: In Westruun.
Laura: I was just wrong about, yeah, the city. That's it.
Liam: Well shit, all right.
Laura: What do you think?
Liam: Well, I don't think we should go charging into the Nine Hells like we did the ocean.
Laura: No. (laughs)
Taliesin: When you put it like that.
Liam: Yeah, let's try to prepare better.
Laura: Shall we go to Westruun?
Liam: Yeah. Maybe not today.
Laura: No.
Liam: We just got here. But yeah.
Laura: That's where we'll go to?
Travis: Yep.
Laura: Yeah? Tight? Tight?
Taliesin: A'ight.
Marisha: We're reading papers from Raishan's.
Taliesin: Also, yeah.
Matt: So you're pulling some of the notes you had gathered-- what languages do you guys speak?
Marisha: I speak Primordial.
Matt: Speak or read.
Marisha: And, well.
Taliesin: High-school Spanish.
Marisha: Primordial, Druidic, Sylvan, Elven.
Taliesin: Common, Celestial, Elven.
Matt: Right.
Laura: Draconic, Abyssal.
Matt: Most of these notes you cannot read. The language you've-- Percival, you recognize the script. A lot of them are written in Abyssal.
Taliesin: All right.
Laura: I can read Abyssal.
Liam: We read Abyssal, we studied it in school.
Matt: Right, so do you go and call their help?
Taliesin: Who reads Abyssal? I can't-- who reads at all. This is all out of focus.
Laura: I read Abyssal.
Liam: Oh, do you need help reading a book, Percival?
Laura: Do you need help because we both speak Abyssal?
Marisha: Grog stole his glasses, go easy on him.
Sam: That's cool.
Travis: I did not steal. They were a gift.
Liam: Excuse, me but this is a once-in-a-lifetime moment for me.
Taliesin: Are you enjoying yourself?
Liam: Do you-- immensely.
Taliesin: This is my gift to you. Happy Rebirthday.
Liam: Thank you, Freddie. Have a seat, let me translate for you. And a very merry Unbirthday to you.
Taliesin: I'm glad I let Grog hit you 'cause I know it hurt more.
Matt: All right, so you glance through some of the notes that were gathered. A lot of them appear to be almost gibberish in the order of words. They don't make sense. Or at least--
Liam: In Abyssal, the verb goes at the end of the sentence, which is different than in Common. You might not have known that.
Matt: You do make up some of them are historical discussions on the roots of powerful magic. Elements during the founding, they're mentioned a few times. They speak of the original Titans, it's a lot of very similarly and type-dense scattered notes. Some of the books that you pull are specifically arcane spellbooks, but they're also written in Abyssal. And as neither of you are practitioners of arcane magic, you have no idea what they say, you just recognize them to be sort of spell markings.
Liam: That's some bullshit.
Marisha: Don't say those things out loud.
Matt: There is the one large dark leather tome that is still locked on the side, and that was what was on the--
Laura: Right. That one feels, is like super scary-looking, though, right?
Matt: Of all the books, it looks like probably the premium book of Opash's collection.
Laura: Does it have writing on the cover?
Matt: It has no writing on the cover. It is just a dark black, leather-bound tome roughly that big that looks like it's weathered, scratched in places. It has kind of like a deep, metallic cornered trimmed bits to it.
Laura: But Gilmore looked at that. I had Gilmore look at it and he said it was scary.
Matt: He said whoever decides to read it should be strong of will. That was his warning.
Laura: Right.
Taliesin: Yeah, a lock on a book is one of those universal titles that make sense in any language.
Laura: Question.
Matt: Yes?
Laura: DM? What would will-- is that wisdom?
Matt: That's like wisdom modifier.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Generally, like wisdom saving throw. That's generally the kind of willpower tests elements of it.
Liam: Did Shaun say to read it or to open it, do we remember?
Laura: He said whoever read it had to be careful.
Matt: Read it.
Liam: Okay. Do I see any kind of trap to the lock?
Matt: Investigation check.
Taliesin: Are we going there?
Liam: No, I'm just checking, I'm not opening it.
Laura: Whoa! Pike should read it.
Matt: If you wish to.
Liam: That's fine.
Travis: Pike should read it.
Liam: Perception you said? 22.
Laura: Pike's got crazy wisdom, we should make her look at it.
Matt: 22? It does not appear to be trapped, it is locked though.
Liam: Okay. I will-- do we want to crack this shit open now?
Travis: Yes! Absolutely.
Laura: I mean, maybe Pike should look at it.
Liam: Yeah, I'm not gonna fucking read it, I'm just gonna open it for Pike.
Marisha: Did you detect any traps?
Liam: I didn't. Seems all right.
Marisha: Can I do Detect Magic on it? Sorry.
Sam: Can I-- no, it's fine.
Matt: You've already been told that it's magical from Gilmore earlier.
Laura: Gilmore looked at it.
Sam: Can I cast Identify on the lock or something?
Laura: On the book?
Liam: Or on the book.
Matt: That's essentially what Gilmore did. It's not a magical item with abilities or powers. It just has a magical essence to it and it's ancient.
Laura: We should have Pike look at this.
Travis: Yup.
Laura: Pike! Look at this.
Liam: I'm gonna try to unlock it.
Laura: Wait, wait, I just wanted to-- oh god.
Matt: All right, make a lock-picking check.
Liam: Well no, is there anything you want to do, Pike, before I open it?
Laura: It's just a dark book, we found it in Raishan, well in--
Matt: Opash's slash Thordak's lair.
Laura: Opash's lair.
Marisha: Slash Raishan's.
Taliesin: It's a locked book of unspeakable evil.
Laura: Gilmore said to be careful of it.
Travis: It's made from, like, flesh?
Sam: Do you fellows think that it will explode, or something bad, when we open it?
Taliesin: Oh, god, if that's all--
Laura: We're just sort of afraid it will take over someone's mind or something.
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: Why don't we have Doty open it?
Marisha: What's your will, Pike? Your wisdom?
Taliesin: What's Doty's willpower?
Sam: I dunno, it doesn't matter. If he breaks, I'll fix him.
Ashley: It would be considered saving-- you would add your saving throw wisdom?
Matt: We'll find out.
Laura: Ohh.
Marisha: Can I assist Pike in some way since we're both wise as fuck?
Matt: You guys could both attempt to read it together and you'd both have to possibly be tested.
Ashley: Tested?
Matt: That's your call.
Sam: Wow.
Marisha: My saving throw modifier is plus 11.
Laura: Pike is really, really wise.
Sam: Wow.
Liam: All right, so, hold on a minute.
Ashley: Oh, shit.
Marisha: -- and my regular modifier is plus six.
Matt: What are we doing?
Liam: Hold on a minute. I'm gonna unlock it. I'm not even gonna open it. I'm just gonna unlock it. So I get between everybody and the book.
Travis: Yep.
Laura: Close your eyes as soon as you unlock it.
Liam: Okay.
Laura: (laughs)
Liam: That is a-- That's fine. That's a 26.
Matt: It opens.
Liam: Okay, hold on.
Laura: I back away.
Sam: Ooh.
Liam: Hold on.
Matt: The latch opens, not the book.
Liam: Hold on. Keyleth, Pike, Vex, c'mere.
Laura: I'm in the doorway, man.
Taliesin: I can't read it anyway.
Ashley: We can do it.
Marisha: I go up. I go up.
Ashley: We can do it together.
Travis: Yeah, just you two.
Marisha: I don't know, I don't know.
Liam: I cast Bless on Pickle, on Keyleth, and my twin's far away, so I guess on myself.
Ashley: What do we get?
Liam: And then I step behind the girls--
Laura: (laughs)
Matt: Okay.
Liam: -- and watch.
Matt: All right. Who's doing what?
Travis: Oh no, look at that face. Holy shit, look--
Laura: Oh no, what's that face? What's that face?
Travis: Look at that forehead. That's like an F5 tornado rolling in.
Sam: Three people reading a book.
Ashley: Should we have Doty open it?
Sam: It doesn't get any more intense. (all laugh)
Marisha: This is what you tuned in for.
Travis: Let's not turn this into burying the shoebox. It's just a book, let's just read it.
Ashley: Should we have Doty look at it? We wouldn't be able to tell.
Taliesin: That didn't work out.
Sam: You seem much more powerful than Doty ever will be.
Travis: He's also not alive.
Laura: Yeah, do it. Do it!
Liam: All right, then.
Laura: I mean, do it if you want to. I'm standing in the doorway.
Marisha: Okay, all right, all right, if you wanna read it, I will go over your shoulder and be on the ready in case anything bad happens.
Sam: In a way, the cover of a book is kind of like a door.
Laura: A little bit.
Marisha: It's true.
Matt: (laughs)
Sam: So we're facing another door.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: All right, what?
Ashley: I'm going to--
Liam: Trying to earn points with us, or what?
Sam: (laughs)
Ashley: -- take my quill.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: And I'm just gonna peek it open, just a little bit.
Matt: Okay. You peek it open.
Sam: (slamming noise)
Ashley: Anything happens?
Matt: Nah, just the top creaks open.
Sam: Bikini islands.
Taliesin: This'll be like the end of the second act--
Ashley: Flip it open.
Taliesin: -- the second act of Ghostbusters.
Matt: The top of the tome flips open. Couple pages go like (fwoosh) kinda stuck to it, and then fall back into place.
Liam: Do a jump scare.
Ashley: (spooky groaning noise)
Marisha: Fall back into place? Why? What?
Laura: Well, it's just open, it's just an open book.
Matt: The pages kinda like curl back in, almost like they were stuck to the--
Marisha: Okay. Nothing weird.
Matt: Nothing weird.
Laura: Just air.
Marisha: Just air, yeah, just a draft.
Matt: A little bit of dust kinda like (swoosh) off the bottom of it. The pages are old. You see a little bit of text drawn on it.
Laura: What does it say? What is it? What does it look like?
Matt: What languages do you know, Pike?
Liam: Shush.
Ashley: Gnomish, Common, Underdark, Undercommon, Dwarvish.
Liam: Ooh.
Matt: You do not recognize the text.
Ashley: I can't read it.
Liam: Is it Abyssal?
Laura: Shit.
Matt: It is Abyssal.
Laura: Aw, fuck.
Marisha: You are the only ones who can speak Abyssal.
Sam: (laughs) That reaction.
Laura: Oh, no.
Travis: Time to die.
Liam: I'll do it.
Laura: What? Lemme see-- how much-- how wise are you?
Marisha: Okay, all right--
Travis: I approve of this decision-making.
Marisha: -- hang on, hang on.
Ashley: Hang on, hang on, hang on, hang on.
Laura: You're not even as wise as I am.
Marisha: Who wants to read it? I can--
Liam: That's very subjective!
Laura: (laughs)
Marisha: I'll enhance your ability.
Taliesin: Do you act--
Matt: Enhance does not really help with saving throws. Just so you know.
Ashley: I'll cast Bless--
Liam: I already did that.
Matt: Just ability checks. If it's an ability check, it'll help.
Liam: I Blessed myself.
Matt: But just so you know.
Marisha: Can I do anything--
Matt: That's up to you.
Sam: Turn into a dragon. (all laugh)
Laura: I'm gonna step up.
Marisha: I just eat the book!
Matt: (laughs)
Taliesin: (burps)
Marisha: (laughs)
Laura: I'm gonna go up and try to look at it.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: I'm gonna cast Bless on her.
Marisha: Who's reading?
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Are you reading?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: So.
Marisha: I cast Enhance Ability on her and give her, I think it's Owl's Wisdom.
Matt: Sure, all right.
Laura: Ooh!
Liam: Ooh!
Taliesin: I run over, I give you a quick kiss. I say, if you turn evil, it's still cool. Just so you know. (all laugh)
Matt: All right. So, Vex.
Laura: Yeah?
Matt: You begin to glance through the pages and the words form around you, and you get a ways into it, and it's interesting. This is a personal notebook. It's a tome, but this is written by Opash, this is--
Laura: This is a gir-nal.
Matt: Yeah. (laughs)
Sam: (blows raspberry)
Taliesin: Whoa.
Sam: (laughs)
Liam: Well done. Well done.
Matt: This goes into Opash's history on Marquet during the Age of Arcanum, a lot of the terrible experiments that he was currently working on that dealt with rending and capturing the soul.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: Capturing the servants and people that wandered the desert and would just-- had a series of caverns across the continent that were--
Marisha: (sneezes)
Taliesin: Bless you.
Matt: -- his to use, where he kept these individuals trapped in gems or glass menagerie-type structures where he would come back at his whim and just destroy souls, shatter them, corrupt them, forge them into things, feed on them. He was fascinated with the never-ending essence of existence and how to manipulate it and make it his own. It goes into that. It goes into people that didn't understand him in Marquet; how he was driven out, the trials that were put against him, his banishment to the island. And then in learning about the facet of this island that there's something about the metal here, something very ancient about this island that becomes this black hole of arcane projection. Astral Projection is not possible from the island, he discovered as he attempted that. And travel magics that go to or from the island have a very difficult ability to escape it, if not get very messed up in the process.
Marisha: We learned that.
Taliesin: Yep.
Matt: However, it talks about how, when he was banished there, he discovered the indigenous people and those that lived on nearby islands that would take small ships from island to island, and there was a trade route there. He convinced and corrupted them to come and work for him, and such, he brought the entire civilization from these multiple islands to come live on this island under him. And then he reaved them all to become his experiments to continue here on this island. And you get a sense, reading through, that the masses of people you saw within that giant chasm that were clawing at you as you passed, those were all the people that used to live on these islands.
Laura: Oh my gosh!
Ashley: Oh my gosh!
Matt: You then also discover a few different chapters. One that mentions finding a near-dead dragon that washes on shore, a red dragon on the cusp of death. And what a great gift it is, to discover, to toy with the soul of an ancient entity like this. And it speaks of years of enslaving this red dragon and torturing and extracting information and manipulating and making it his own toy. And then, began to pull together research he had read elsewhere on the continuation of a dragon's soul, of being able to take the spirit of a dragon and make it indestructible and to live from body to body. And if he could find a way to correct this to work for himself it wouldn't be-- his power would continue without the binds of lichdom that a lot of other type magics would eventually be bound to-- the phylactery element, through a dragon transition would be a lot easier to maintain, and his hope for doing so. It beings to speak of a ritual, one that involved this ancient, ancient entity dragon called Guuthal the Ever-Fed. A mighty black dragon that was instilled with necromantic power that terrorized the world during the Age of Arcanum in its first millennia. Guuthal had used ritualistic aid, forbidden rites, and sacrifice of its own lifeforce to be born again as this never-dying new form of unlife referred to as a dracolich. However, the last few notes in Opash's hand end abruptly and a new handwriting in Draconic begins.
Laura: Which I also read.
Matt: Which you also read. These notes are less poetic and speaking to itself in the way Opash was by himself and needed somebody to converse with, and he chose his words. This is a much more direct, trying to piece together parts of an equation. And you start seeing references to J'mon Sa Ord, you see references to being the king that rises from the ashes. You begin to realize that these are the words of Thordak. This was the moment when Thordak overtook Opash, destroyed him, and made the lair his own. This history then goes into Thordak's interest in trying to find power to take this ritual unto himself and thus become an undying entity. The notes finish with the intent of Thordak going north to seek out mages, to seek out power, things he could bind to his will and bring them back to make this ritual happen. That's the last passage you see. You begin to realize that the knowledge that Thordak had, and was holding from Raishan, was the knowledge of this ritual that would probably be what would enable her to bypass the curse that she had.
Laura: Oh my gosh. But we killed her.
Matt: But you killed her.
Laura: This could have been so much worse.
Marisha: Yes, it could've.
Matt: I also need you to make a wisdom saving throw.
Sam: Ooh, shnikies!
Ashley: Can I--
Liam: Bless, bless, bless.
Travis: Can I--
Laura: What does Bless do?
Ashley: Can I also cast Beacon of Hope on her?
Sam: It's like inspiration.
Laura: Don't fuck me, Gil!
Matt: What's Beacon of Hope do?
Ashley: Beacon of Hope gives you advantage on wisdom saving throws.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Oh, tight.
Matt: So, Beacon of Hope is cast.
Liam: It's already good.
Laura: Okay, 16.
Liam: Roll a d4 and add it.
Laura: It's just saving throw?
Matt: Saving throw, yes.
Laura: 18 + 3 is 21, plus two.
Liam: What does that Owl's Wisdom do?
Laura: 23.
Marisha: Huh?
Liam: What does Owl's Wisdom do?
Marisha: It gives you advantage on wisdom checks.
Laura: Oh, okay.
Marisha: Not saving throws.
Matt: Not saving throws. So, as you're reading through this, you guys watch as Vex's attention--
Laura: Oh wait, (whispers) 18, 19, 20, 23 (louder) 25.
Matt: 25, okay.
Laura: Oh no, that's a 16, I'm sorry! I was right, it was 23. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm a dick!
Matt: As you are reading through this, and you go through, you watch as she turns the pages faster and faster and her eyes unblinkingly are just scanning the pages with rapid pace. And, Vex, you feel this cold essence begin to curl through your shoulders and into the back of the neck and right as you finish the last bit of notes before Thordak, you feel something try to reach for the back of your mind. Cold fingers, ten, 20, an endless supply of grasping fingers reach for the back of your mind. And you shrug it off and pull yourself away from the book and the cold fades.
Laura: I shut the book.
Marisha: You all right?
Laura: Great.
Travis: Bad story?
Laura: I tell them everything I read.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Super fast 'cause I'm, like, a speed reader it's no big deal.
Liam: You were reading for like 25 minutes.
Laura: Oh shit! Well, it was a big journal.
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: It's amazing. Anastasia Steele fell in love with Christian Grey just like that? Amazing! (all laugh)
Travis: Jesus Christ.
Taliesin: It's a knockout.
Travis: Oh my god.
Taliesin: Wow, now I can feel the fingers in the back of my head. (all laugh)
Matt: All the rest of us making a wisdom saving throw!
Taliesin: Damn it.
Sam: I know Laura read that.
Laura: I read most of it and then I just threw the book away.
Taliesin: Pike, can we destroy this thing?
Ashley: That was--
Laura: Well--
Ashley: -- what I was going to see if we--
Laura: Should we destroy this thing? I feel like maybe, I mean--
Taliesin: The knowledge exists now.
Laura: It's true.
Taliesin: It's outside the book, and if the book was-- there's something in there.
Marisha: Can we have Doty copy down everything that you just said?
Taliesin: Oh! Oh!
Liam: She said.
Marisha: Not actually exact transcriptions, just so we keep the knowledge.
Taliesin: Transcription of the story.
Sam: I mean, sure, he can record what her report is if you like, sure, yes.
Taliesin: It would be invaluable.
Laura: All right.
Matt: Doty walks over to one of the nearby shelves and finds one of the books that is only partially written in, tears out all the pages--
Laura: Okay, no, okay.
Taliesin: That was--
Laura: That's something.
Matt: -- and just begins transcribing from memory what you just said.
Marisha: High school notes?
Taliesin: No, that was a sea captain's journal. It's okay, it doesn't matter, it's not--
Sam: He didn't burn them, we could just--
Travis: Are we doing that now? I mean, I can help him, just--
Laura: No, Grog!
Taliesin: No no no no no!
Travis: And I just rip--
Laura: Should we destroy-destroy this?
Taliesin: I think so.
Sam: It's magical of some sort?
Laura: It certainly felt like something was trying to reach through.
Marisha: That doesn't sit well with me.
Laura: And what good does it do the world to know how to bring back souls as the undead? It seems kind of dark.
Sam: Do you lot have some sort of a vault here or something?
Travis: Do we?
Matt: You didn't have one made.
Marisha: We don't here; we do in Whitestone.
Taliesin: Even if there is a vault, all the vault is is a-- it's the one place in any city where everyone knows something valuable's kept.
Sam: A magical vault somewhere you could send this thing to be far away?
Laura: Well, we have a bag of holding.
Travis: Ooh! You know what? We could like send it into the plane where Craven Edge is and we'll take the sword out and put the book in in its place.
Taliesin: You know, I feel like there's someone collecting terrible things.
Laura: All terrible things.
Liam: We could throw it in the black spinny thing under Whitestone, or--
Laura: Oh no!
Liam: -- we could just give it to Allura.
Marisha: We were also going to go the Cobalt Reserve anyway, we could see, I'm sure they have some sort of a library special secret book vault.
Taliesin: I would feel all right with that.
Laura: Let's keep it in the bag of holding for the time being.
Travis: Okay.
Taliesin: Let's re-lock it.
Liam: Big responsibility.
Laura: Definitely.
Marisha: Re-lock it.
Laura: Re-lock it. Re-lock it.
Marisha: I vote we take it to the Cobalt Reserve.
Taliesin: I concur.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Do you concur? I concur.
Laura: I concur.
Taliesin: You concur?
Marisha: Either that, or Vasselheim. One of the two will have options, I'm sure.
Taliesin: I feel that the Cobalt Reserve will probably have some sort of situation for books like this.
Marisha: Okay.
Taliesin: That seems reasonable.
Matt: So, what's the next step?
Laura: We're going to go to Westruun. Right?
Marisha: Did we go through all of the papers that Raishan and everything had, for the most part?
Matt: All those notes seemed to pertain to that book, and once you had the information from Vex, it kind of connected all the dots. A lot of these were notes regarding this ritual. Trying to find ways to break the chain of the life/death cycle and obsession with the alteration and harvesting of souls and spiritual energy for the use of powering arcane experimentation. So, not good stuff.
Marisha: He mentioned going north and looking for other powerful entities and objects to bind with. And then Raishan thought it would be a good idea to settle down in Whitestone.
Travis: Before we killed Raishan, didn't she say--
Laura: Well, Wildmount is far north. Raishan said she was from Wildmount.
Travis: Right. And she said she had found what she needed.
Matt: No, Raishan actually was from--
Taliesin: South.
Matt: -- she was south of Tal'Dorei.
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: She was?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: She had an interest in Whitestone, which makes me wonder what the spinning black orb of death has to do with all of this. Because I'm still not convinced that it doesn't have some sort of play in everything.
Taliesin: It's just a spinning black orb of death sitting underneath my family home.
Laura: Dedicated to Vecna.
Taliesin: No. There's nothing-- I'm well aware that it's terrible. I don't know why you're staring at me like that. Yes, I think about it a lot. I'm--
Marisha: I'm just, you know--
Taliesin: I just don't know what to do about it.
Liam: Well, we can, well, not me, but smart people can devote more attention now that there's not five great dragons trying to tear the world apart.
Taliesin: We'll help.
Marisha: What time is it?
Matt: At this time, with you guys travelling through the city, getting here, with the research, I'd say it's getting pretty close to dusk. You probably have like an hour or so before the sun sets.
Marisha: You all want to rest? Take the night off, head to Westruun in the morning?
Laura: Sure.
Liam: Yeah. Back to the keep.
Taliesin: Back to the keep. We are in the keep.
Marisha: We are in the keep.
Matt: You are in the keep.
Liam: We stay in the keep.
Sam: Has Emon come back enough to have shops open for business or anything?
Matt: Yeah, I mean, not everything was destroyed. There are shops that are open and there are people running business here. I mean, a number of the districts got damaged and some buildings are having to be rebuilt, but it is still a functional city. Though to a lesser degree right now.
Marisha: You know, before we--
Taliesin: Did you want to shop now or later?
Sam: I don't want to waste time. Everything I do, I have to buy.
Laura: Oh.
Taliesin: Well, we can shop in the morning, on the way out.
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Sure. Yep.
Taliesin: Yeah, that's fair.
Laura: Not in a huge rush. Yeah.
Sam: I'm at your disposal.
Laura: We'll shop in Emon in the morning and then head out to Westruun. They'll have shops there, too. Just not as many.
Taliesin: Brunch.
Marisha: Brunch.
Sam: At dawn, we brunch.
Taliesin: At dawn, we brunch.
Liam: Please. Please.
Taliesin: No chicken.
Matt: As the sun sets across the Tal'Dorei sky, you all settle in for the evening to rest, contemplate the return of your ally. Your next venture in researching the path before you as Vox Machina. You to return soon to finish your Aramente to your people and see what lies ahead of you by the threads of fate wielded by the Raven Queen. At dawn, you brunch. And until then we'll return next week, with the next episode of Critical Role. (all cheer)
Laura: (sings) Everybody's still alive for the time being.
Liam: I really want brunch right now.
Taliesin: I just want brunch so badly.
Matt: I know.
Taliesin: I miss brunch.
Laura: Those donuts were pretty fucking great.
Matt: Well, guys, thank you for watching. Congratulations to our winner earlier. Thank you again, Loot Crate, for being our awesome sponsor.
All: Loot Crate!
Matt: What's that?
Crew: We did make it for Amandine.
Matt: We made it for Amandine! (cheers)
Matt: You guys are amazing. So we're going to go ahead and get her all the best legal work that we can to try and keep her in our midst. So thank you guys so much for being generous and helping out with that tremendously. Tremendously. It means a lot. Both to her and all of us here at Geek & Sundry so thank you. Thank you. Some of us-- I'll be returning tomorrow at noon for Eric's TBD RPG. Doctor Who. Which will be fun.
Taliesin: Doctor Whom.
Matt: With Darin De Paul. Doctor Whom. I'm sorry. You're right. And then all of us will be here on Saturday for the 24-hour two-year anniversary stream!
Laura: I don't know if all of us--
Taliesin: Many of us--
Matt: Many of us, many of us will be here on Saturday.
Marisha: Definitely Matt, Taliesin, and I, and maybe others?
Taliesin: Hey, you don't have to DM the Mansions for once!
Matt: That's true, 'cause the new edition.
Taliesin: Now Apple will do it for you.
Matt: It's wonderful. I was the Keeper almost every time for years. Big surprise, right?
Marisha: Yeah, I've been the Keeper a couple of times.
Matt: You did! Which is why I said "most".
Marisha: A few, though.
Matt: You were great. It was fun.
Taliesin: If we bring the expansion, you can still be Ashcan Pete, too.
Marisha: (rough voice) Oh, hell, yeah. Who can? Ashcan.
Taliesin: Ashcan Pete!
Matt: Ashcan Pete. He's the best.
Taliesin: Your Ashcan Pete makes me happy.
Matt: Anyway, guys, awesome work. Ashley, we love having you.
Travis: Yeah, Ashley!
Matt: Don't go back.
Ashley: I know! I don't want to!
Travis: Stay!
Ashley: I'm so close.
Matt: Yeah, we get you back soon.
Ashley: I have about three and a half to four weeks. And then I'll be home for a long time.
Laura: Yay!
Marisha: Can you do the Skype-y things with us next week? Do you know?
Sam: Don't pressure her.
Taliesin: No, no pressure!
Marisha: I'm allowed. Because I care.
Ashley: I don't know. I always hope so, but sometimes that's proven to be a little bit more difficult for some reason this season.
Laura: It's because they made your part so big this season.
Marisha: I know!
Ashley: Well, doh doh doh.
Laura: You're so talented and amazing.
Travis: You're the best!
Liam: Stupid innate ability.
Ashley: It's just-- No! It's just time change and things. (all laugh)
Matt: I know.
Ashley: I love being here, though.
Matt: I know. We miss you.
Ashley: Soon! So soon!
Matt: Soon. You'll be back soon. All right, guys--
Liam: Do we have an EMT and a stomach pump on hand for Sam? For after the show?
Laura: Oh my gosh.
Ashley: How's your tummy?
Sam: I ate a lot of sugar and caffeine at the beginning of this show. I feel very strange.
Taliesin: There's Big League Chew on the floor.
Sam: There is Big League Chew on the floor.
Taliesin: There's a little bit of Big League Chew.
Laura: Ugh, gross!
Matt: That is disgusting.
Sam: And probably in my lower intestine.
Taliesin: Wait, wait. Wait.
Laura: Do not touch that, Taliesin.
Marisha: No, no, Taliesin! Oh!
Matt: (laughs)
Marisha: I'm never eating Big League Chew again.
Taliesin: Good, then something positive has come out of this.
Sam: It was purple flavor.
Laura: Ew.
Matt: Purple flavor?
Taliesin: That's not supposed to be purple.
Matt: Guys, thank you so much. We'll see you next week. Love to you all and is it Thursday yet? Good night, guys. [art]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Sound: [no audio]
Matt: Where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons. (laughter)
Matt: Why's everyone laughing? So yes! We're going to hop in here, but before we do, we have some quick announcements to get through. First and foremost, we have a survey that we put up a couple of weeks ago. It ends April 18th. If you happen to have an opportunity, please go ahead and put in your information, let us know where you're from, how much of the show you've watched, what kind of future things from Critical Role you'd like to see. It's us getting a feel for the size and spread of the community and it's very helpful and awesome. So you can check that out at geekandsundry.com/crsurvey. You'll probably see the link in chat as well, please do that if you haven't yet, that'd be awesome! You have until April 18th. As far as merch goes, we're still out of stock on dice, I believe?
Laura: No!
Matt: No?
Laura: There's officially 30 sets left, according to--
Sam: 30 sets?
Laura: 30 sets.
Liam: Sorry, they're gone. (laughter)
Laura: There are 30 sets left in the store, we will be ordering more. So there will be more, but I don't know when that's, you know, going to come in. So 30 sets for the time being.
Matt: Fantastic. Thank you Laura. Yes. Taliesin! Wednesday Club coming up, right?
Taliesin: There is a Wednesday Club. We're doing Comics 101, it's going to be our intro to how to read comics! The notion is like the show that you would show your grandmother, or your friend who's never apparently seen a written word next to a picture before. They do exist! I'm sadly not going to be there, but Amy and Matt are going to throw together something really, really awesome, and I'm going to be helping out from the sidelines, throwing them stuff, because I'm going to be out of town. But yay.
Matt: Awesome. Speaking of Taliesin and a different Matt, we're both going to be on Eric's TBD RPG tomorrow at noon Pacific time.
Sam: Oh. The dice are gone.
Matt: The dice are gone.
Noelle: Just now.
Matt: Well done. Jesus.
Laura: Good job, guys that got them!
Matt: Yay! We'll have more soon! But we'll both be on Eric's TBD RPG tomorrow at noon, here at Geek and Sundry, Pacific time for the Doctor Who RPG. I'll be returning as my character Meatstick, the--
Travis: Meatstick?
Matt: Meatstick, yeah. He's a heavily experimented-on Ood who is massively buff and looks kind of like Nemesis from Resident Evil 3. But with more of a tentacle mouth. So that'll be fun!
Taliesin: Yes! I'll be doing my old man voice. It's very fun, yes.
Matt: I know it is, and I believe Darin De Paul will be joining us as well.
Taliesin: I think he's a maybe.
Matt: Maybe? He's supposed to be. I think he might be a little late. I'll check in.
Marisha: I think he's going to be on. I think. Pretty sure.
Matt: Mystery! Abound! Marisha! New Signal Boost, went up this week?
Marisha: Yes! It's... me! (laughter)
Matt: Full circle!
Marisha: Again! I'm back! Go watch-- actually, we're going to be playing it over the course of the break. So that we have a break.
Matt: You should watch it.
Marisha: So you'll watch it over the course of the break.
Matt: It's only getting weirder, folks.
Marisha: It's getting really weird. You can tell it's such an outlet for us of the creative team. It's got a lot of meta things going on, reflecting our day-to-day lives. It always has been. It's great.
Matt: I will be at Sakura-Con by the way, next weekend. April 14th through the 16th up in Seattle. Be doing some panels, signings, and fun stuff, so if you guys are up in the Seattle area next weekend, come say hi! It'll be fun. Sorry, pardon my belch. Snuck up on me. And once again, Will Friedle is going to be at the Wales Comic Con, April 8th and 9th. Real soon. So if you're near Wales, go say hi to Will, give him a bunch of really large presents that he can't bring back on the plane, they will become his problem. So, that's my recommendation. Fuck that guy, exactly. And a reminder: me, Taliesin, and Marisha will be guests at Momocon, May 25th to the 28th in Atlanta, Georgia! So if you're in that area, other side of the country, come say hi then! Because that'd be fun.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: And Talks Machina, of course, every Tuesday, at 7PM Pacific here on Twitch and Alpha, where we talk about-- next week, we'll be talking about this episode! And the episode before that a little bit, probably, too.
Marisha: Yeah. I hope everyone liked the panel, by the way.
Matt: The panel went great! We had a great turnout at WonderCon!
Marisha: Yeah, thanks everybody who came!
Taliesin: It was super cool.
Matt: Like we kind of filled the arena. I had this big fear we were going to get up on stage and it was going to be, like, seven people in the front row and just empty space.
Marisha: Apparently 2,800.
Sam: Oh wow!
Marisha: 2,800 strong.
Matt: Jesus.
Laura: You Critters!
Marisha: Yeah, so many Critters.
Matt: So thanks for coming, guys!
Liam: Great costumes, lots of cosplay.
Travis: Oh, Brian Wayne Foster also said the Wondercon panel will be on G&S's YouTube Friday at 8PM, in case you missed it on Talks Machina.
Matt: Great, so you can check it out then. And I believe, unless I'm mistaken, that's it. Anything else anyone wants to talk about? Noelle, anything you want to talk about?
Noelle: I had a great day today--
Matt: Awesome!
Noelle: -- and it was really fun. I had a good lunch.
Matt: I'm so glad. What'd you have?
Noelle: Falafel.
Matt: Nice, good choice.
Liam: Hey look, this is a book that she made, and it's so good! And she signed it for me and I'm reading it to my kids and they love it!
Noelle: There's a bear in it.
Laura: There is a bear in it!
Noelle: More than that in it, too, let me tell you. Just getting started. Lots of different animals. (laughter)
Matt: Which, by the way, thank you again, Noelle, for coming and playing this again this week.
Noelle: Yeah, hey, is anyone tied to a table and needs help right now? Because apparently I'm available now. I'm here to help. (laughter)
Matt: And, on that note, let's go ahead and dive in to tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: And welcome back. Just so you guys know, we know there is a bit of an audio-sync issue that's happening right now. It's apparently not on our end; our systems are syncing just fine. It might be a Twitch-side thing. Hopefully they're working on it right now and seeing if we can figure out how to get that fixed. In the meantime, my apologies. We will continue playing, and at the very least the upload will be synced. So keep an ear out. Thank you for your patience. Technical! All righty, so. Catching us up from last week. Vox Machina goes to hell. In tying up loose ends and dealing with lingering business, you've decided to travel to the Nine Hells of Baator, specifically the second layer of Dis, to where the iron city of Dis, under the rule of Dispater, to seek out the place where Hotis, the rakshasa, which is now in a chain of perpetually hunting members of your team. You decided it was best to end it there, as the only way to kill the entity is to destroy it on its own home plane. So you gathered yourselves, you transported via Keyleth onto the second layer of hell, you wandered incognito as various demonic-adjacent entities. You've avoided a modicum of interest or other issues, you've made friends and signed a contract for aid with a cambion owner of some sort of tavern in the vicinity, you met with a silly shop owner, you ate soul crystals, little soul stones, and you've agreed to, for safe passage into the subterranean prison of Mentiri, which apparently houses Hotis as he's reforming, you've come to discover, you will go and assassinate a pit fiend named Utugash, who is the superior of the individual you signed the contract with. And upon his destruction, and without leaking any information that could tie this individual to the assassination, be granted passage safely and unspoiled into the prison to seek out your quarry, slay it, and return home safely. As you snuck into the home of this pit fiend, you quickly discovered a dwarvish female had endured quite some torture and was found chained to a table. You released her, and she introduced herself as Tova. Actually, I don't believe you ever introduced yourself. You didn't give a name? Did you?
Noelle: It's in there somewhere.
Matt: I'm sure it was somewhere in there.
Laura: Yeah, she said her name!
Matt: I think you did. Okay, good. Little else, though.
Laura: I wrote it down.
Marisha: I know. That means it happened!
Matt: There you go. That was awesome.
Laura: I also wrote down "chain devils know." I don't know what that note meant.
Noelle: Oh my god, what do they know?
Travis: You were tripping last session.
Marisha: Because the chain devil potentially knew--
Laura: About the Bastion of Flesh, is that what it was?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Well, there you go.
Laura: It was just, chain devils know, period.
Noelle: Very broody.
Matt: Chain devils, period  no. N-O. Period. Just don't.
Laura: That, too.
Matt: However, your new dwarven friend transformed into some sort of a lycanthrope werebear, taking a greatsword from Grog's stash in the bag of holding. You gave chase over one of the guardians and keepers of the stronghold, killed it, and in doing so alerted other members of the stronghold, killed them, and in doing so alerted other members of the stronghold, and Grog, creeping forward down this hallway, revealed a central chamber where betwixt two pools of what appear to be molten, glowing blood, and sitting upon a throne, the corpulent, grotesque, sweaty, slick pit fiend named Utugash sits there. The terrible toothy grin, who speaks telepathically into your mind. "So. What do you bring to me to pleasure?" And I need you all to roll initiative.
Laura: Oh god! That quickly, huh?
Travis: Telepathically?
Matt: Yeah, just like the last one spoke to you.
Travis: Are people just too lazy to use their mouths?
Taliesin: Mouths are for eating, not for talking.
Marisha: It's like texting in hell.
Matt: Kind of, yeah. All righty, folks. So, given that point. 25 to 20?
Liam: 24.
Laura: 24.
Travis: Whatever.
Matt: 20 to 15. Who has what?
Sam: 19.
Taliesin: 15.
Noelle: 16.
Travis: Samesies.
Noelle: Oh, we're going together. Yeah!
Marisha: 17.
Sam: Wow, we all did pretty well.
Marisha: Yeah we did, for us.
Laura: What'd you roll?
Sam: We're all between 15 and 24.
Matt: All right, so, as the pit fiend's still just standing there, its arm hanging over the edge of this giant axe it's using, propping it, it stares at Grog. It seems to be completely lazy, confident, and doesn't feel threatened whatsoever by the presence of this goliath that has stepped into its visual range. However, top of the round, Vax and Vex. What do you guys want to do?
Liam: Take it.
Laura: No, you go.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: So you guys are right there.
Liam: Clicking the Boots of Haste. I'm going to now-- I know that there's a clot of people, but I have a lot of movement now, so I'm going to slide back towards Grog? No, towards Tova. That's a big bear at the other entrance. Towards the other entrance. Oh, that's a wall.
Laura: There's no other entrance.
Matt: The only entrance you know of is this one right there.
Laura: We really should have gone up and looked at it up close before.
Matt: That's okay. Now you know.
Liam: Then I'm going to slide along the wall up to where Grog is.
Matt: Okay. You move along on this side?
Liam: Yeah. Am I within range of oily guy? What's the distance, though, ten feet?
Matt: The distance between you and Utugash would be 25 feet.
Liam: 25 feet. All right.
Laura: Kill him!
Liam: Little test run. Let's dagger, dagger, dagger.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Okay. Because I don't know if he's really there or not. First one is 33.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: Yeah, good. That's 12, plus eight, nine--
Laura: I was just thinking because it's at the same time, technically our moves. Could I send Trinket in?
Matt: Trinket into the room? Or just into the hallway?
Laura: Well, that way Trinket's next to him so that my brother gets better-- doesn't he get better--
Matt: Trinket, from here, would be five, ten, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40. Trinket has a speed of 40, right?
Travis: I think that's right.
Laura: I think so, yeah. Could he get there?
Matt: Trinket can get there.
Laura: Oh god, that is so scary! I don't know, now that I'm saying it, if that's the way to go.
Travis: Go with your instincts.
Laura: Here's my question.
Sam: We have a backup bear. (laughter)
Laura: While he's figuring out his shit, if Trinket falls and I don't see him, does he still come into Raven's Slumber if it's within 100 feet? Or do I have to have visual?
Matt: You don't know.
Laura: (gasps) Matthew Mercer!
Travis: You know, there is really one way to find out.
Matt: No, as long as the enchantment's in the radius, it's fine. (laughter)
Laura: Then he's going to do that so that you have a better attack on him.
Liam: Well, I'm going first, so I've got the goods already.
Laura: Motherfuck. Whatever.
Matt: You rush in, you get there.
Liam: First blade goes, and I'm going to Smite him.
Matt: Are you waiting for Trinket to get there before you throw?
Liam: No, I'm not. I went already.
Matt: All right. Go for your attacks.
Travis: But you could, he's saying you could have your advantage on that.
Liam: I have it because I'm going before. Because I'm smiting him, first hit's for 55 total.
Matt: 55 points of damage. Slick.
Liam: That's the first. The second is a 20 to hit. And the third is a 27 to hit.
Matt: All three hit.
Liam: The next one, I will try--
Noelle: What could possibly go wrong?
Laura: Just keep saying that!
Liam: So he has to save against a DC 15 for poison on the second attack.
Matt: No, it doesn't. He's immune.
Liam: Yeah, I figured I'd try. The next is nine, plus psychic damage, damn it, 12. So a total of 14, just for those two attacks. And then I will use some more movement to move past Grog, still in the hole, pressed against the outside of the door, out of his sight.
Matt: Okay. So you're now hiding against this side of the wall there. As Trinket runs in into the center of the area, as Trinket rushes in and rushes up to the side of the pit fiend, what are you doing?
Laura: I'm going to back up next to Tova. Wait, who's the big guy? What's that big thing? Is that Doty?
Matt: That's Doty.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to get closer to Doty, and I'm going to hold my attack until I have visual. And then I'm going to have Trinket attack him, since I don't have visual on him right now, as my bonus move. So he's just going to get one attack.
Matt: All right, let me check one thing real fast on beastmaster. You are technically taking the attack action yourself. I'll allow it.
Laura: You said I can get my attacks and then have Trinket be my bonus action, because he can do one attack as my bonus action. Single attack on bonus for bestial fury.
Matt: That's true. Yeah. I'll allow it. How it usually works is your action is the attack, and then as a bonus action you can give it, it's like you're both attacking at the same time. You're holding your action, but it is still an attack action, so I'll allow it. Go ahead and use it. It's fine.
Laura: All right. He's going to just be in there, roaring. Get them, Trink! He's going to roll a 21.
Matt: 21 hits.
Laura: Yay! Whoa! That's a 15!
Matt: Awesome. Are Trinket's attacks magical?
Laura: Well, he's a really magically charismatic masseuse--
Matt: So Trinket gets an attack, scrapes the claw, gets up there as it runs into the room, the claw strikes, slashes across the front of the belly of the giant red pit fiend. It doesn't do as much damage as you hoped it would.
Laura: Does it do any damage?
Matt: It does some damage, but not as much as you'd hoped. All righty. That ends your turn. You're holding your action until you have visual on the pit fiend. Taryon, what are you doing?
Sam: It's rather stuffy in here, so we should open a window. I'll run up to right in front of Vex and slap a window on the wall.
Matt: Okay!
Noelle: Did you run out of doors?
Sam: I've run out of doors. (laughter)
Sam: I came with one. But I have two windows!
Matt: So for the purposes of this, this is now a window here.
Marisha: Does it have nice Roman-style shade and then little baskets?
Matt: Yeah, no. It's beautifully carved. Yeah, it was like some Italian architects designed this beautiful--
Sam: It's a casement window, so I have to go-- (squeaking) (laughter)
Matt: Perfect. So, to Taryon. Use your action to rush forward, you rip off the patch, slam the patch on the side, and you watch as the stone suddenly crumbles to dust in that space. Window is now open in the side of that wall. As soon as that happens--
Laura: I attack.
Matt: Vex, go make your attack.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Two against the pit fiend.
Laura: Two against-- I want to do Bramble Shot as my first attack.
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: Okay. Oh! 30.
Matt: 30 hits! Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Okay. So I get Sneak Attack because Trinket's next to him!
Matt: Yep.
Laura: Okay. 4d8. Seven plus ten is 17. 17 just for that brambleness. And then he has to roll a strength saving throw of DC 17.
Matt: That's cocked. Yeah, rolled a 20.
Laura: Okay. 15. 17 plus three is 20. Three lightning damage of that and then Sneak Attack is another six.
Matt: Nice. All righty.
Laura: So that's the first attack.
Matt: Go for it. Second attack?
Laura: Second attack! What was that? 21.
Matt: 21 hits.
Laura: All right! What's five plus eight? Is that 13?
Noelle: Yes.
Laura: 13.
Noelle: Why are you asking me? I'm a bear. Notoriously bad at math.
Liam: Moneybags, what the hell?
Laura: 15 with two lightning damage. 16, 17.
Matt: All righty. So both arrows fire off. You watch as the one slams into the side of Utugash and the vines wrap around. Utugash brings one arm up, tears them off of his body, picks up the axe and hefts it over the shoulder looking back at where the window now exists where once there was none. Looks over and sees you and Taryon through the window.
Laura: Am I allowed to move back at all, or duck under the window?
Matt: You could attempt to make a hide, but he was looking directly at you. You can move on inside.
Laura: Well, I probably can't hide; isn't that a bonus action?
Matt: Yeah, you already used bonus action.
Laura: So if I just move out of the way.
Matt: So yeah, you can move out of the way if you want.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: This way or this way?
Laura: Towards Doty.
Matt: Towards Doty? Okay, so you're going to move on the other side of Doty. That's going to be your movement, there.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Okay. Cool. That is going to bring us to Taryon. Did you want to do anything with Doty?
Sam: Well, he can't fit through a window. (laughs)
Matt: How big's the window in size?
Sam: It's two feet by four feet, I believe?
Matt: He could pull through, but it's going to take half his movement to do so.
Sam: I'll just say, Doty! Go back up Grog!
Matt: And Doty runs this way. Five, ten, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35. Doty gets right there, just crammed through the hallway and squeezed through. And that's going to be where Doty stays. All right, that ends your turn. All right, at this point now, Utugash puts one hand up and gives some sort of a marker in the air. You're not quite sure what the meaning is or what it's doing. You're the only one who really sees it, Taryon.
Travis: I can't see it?
Matt: Well, you see it too, Grog, actually.
Travis: I totally know he was (sings) dancing, dancing, dancing!
Sam: I don't have any idea?
Matt: You don't, actually. He just goes like--
Sam: Oh. Semaphore.
Matt: That's it. All right, Keyleth. Then Tova and Grog, you're on deck, so--
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to scooch Vex over, be like, sorry, excuse me! I just want to-- And into the window? And I want to do--
Laura: I'm not next to the window anymore.
Matt: Taryon is. You moosh past Taryon.
Marisha: Oh, sorry. Excuse me, Tary. Blight!
Matt: Blight? Okay.
All: Blight.
Marisha: Bees?
Matt: Range on Blight is 60 feet, right?
Marisha: 30.
Matt: 30 feet?
Marisha: Am I within 30 feet?
Matt: You're going to have to get closer.
Sam: Each one of those squares in the room with him are ten feet squares, right?
Matt: Each square is five feet. It's five, ten, 15--
Sam: The big squares are ten, yeah.
Matt: Yeah, the big squares are ten.
Liam: It's hard to see the smaller ones.
Marisha: All right.
Matt: So you'd have go through the window to do it.
Sam: (sings) Come to my window!
Matt: (sing) Come inside.
Laura: (sing) Come inside.
Marisha: Yeah, sure, I'll go through the window.
Matt: Okay, so you step through, you get about there. You have ten feet more movement. So that'll do it. All right, so.
Marisha: Can I Blight and then back out? Back through the window?
Matt: You're not going to have enough movement. You'll get up into the window. You won't get all the way through.
Marisha: (grunts) Shit!
Matt: That is a 21. What's your DC?
Marisha: Fuck! Are you serious? 20.
Matt: Yeah, so takes half damage. Go ahead and roll damage.
Sam: Wait, he took damage, though!
Marisha: Only half damage.
Sam: Because he's immune to magic or something? Is that what's going on?
Matt: No, you learned as the last battle, that pit fiends, as do most devils, have magic resistance. They have advantage on saving throws against spells. You figured this information when you researched.
Laura: And only magical weapons can damage them, or they have resist on non-magical weapons?
Matt: They seem to have resistance from non-magical weapons, from the research you've done, yeah.
Laura: Based on my lack of Trinket attack fullness.
Marisha: 32 total? And yeah, am I able to like barrel roll, like through the window?
Matt: You get up partway through the window, and that's the extent of where you go.
Marisha: Hang on! Wait! (laughter)
Laura: I'd like to think one of your antlers caught, and you're like, (yelps).
Marisha: Not like this! (laughter)
Matt: All righty. Tova. Grog.
Noelle: Oh boy!
Travis: Bears first.
Noelle: Okay, so how far would I have to run to get into the front door?
Matt: To get over here?
Noelle: Yeah.
Matt: That would be 30. 35 feet would get you right at the front door, there.
Noelle: So if I drag Keyleth out of the window, could I go through the window? Am I too big?
Matt: You could go through the window. You'd lose about ten feet of your movement, but you'd be able to get through it. You'd probably push her out of it.
Noelle: I push her. Can I pull her? (laughs) I have to push her back in and then go through?
Marisha: I'm like the golden retriever with the stick.
Matt: If you carry her through, that's going to use part of your actions this turn. Or you could just barrel through and push her out. What're you going to do?
Noelle: All right, so, I can go 45 feet.
Matt: Yeah.
Noelle: So if I just bear-barrel through, how close could I get to this guy?
Matt: You can get right up next to him.
Noelle: All right, I'm going to do that. I'm going to go for it.
Matt: You rush over and go right past, now bear and bear, side by side. Keyleth, you get knocked out of the window, prone. All of a sudden this giant werebear (impact noise) just shoulder checks you and you go flying out, landing on your face, on the heated stone. (sizzling noise) Ah!
Sam: Oh! It's okay.
Noelle: Sorry!
Marisha: It's fine, I needed a tan! I was getting a little pasty.
Matt: Take three points of fire damage. (groaning)
Noelle: God! I would feel worse if your shopping trip hadn't gotten me so much more tortured yesterday than it should have. I don't feel that bad. I'm going to be honest.
Marisha: You legit shouldn't.
Noelle: So now I'm in, is there any way I could get on the other side of him from Trinket?
Matt: Currently, no. Your full movement gets you right up next to the pit fiend.
Noelle: Damn. This is a bad plan. All right. Well, I'm just going to hit him with my--
Matt: You have a bonus action, too.
Noelle: Are my claws only magical when I'm doing the thing?
Matt: Your claws are magical in general.
Noelle: I'm just going to hit him with my claws, then.
Matt: Okay.
Noelle: All right.
Matt: So you take the sword and chuck it aside for a second, and bring out your bear claws and you're going to go for a double strike?
Noelle: 19?
Matt: A 19 to hit?
Noelle: Yep.
Matt: 19 misses, unfortunately.
Noelle: Goddamn it. And 25.
Matt: 25 does. The first strike goes (scraping sound), scrapes across the front of the belly of the pit fiend. No damage sustained, chuckles deeply. You back up with another strike.
Noelle: All right. So that's a 14.
Matt: 14 damage?
Noelle: Yeah, I guess so.
Matt: All righty. And you can use your bonus action to attack a third time if you want to.
Noelle: Okay. I'm going to use my bonus action to cast Curse of Mutual Suffering. And I'm going to amplify that. So I'm going to-- wait.
Sam: What're these words?
Noelle: I'm super special. It's about to get extra in here. So if I do a blood curse and I take damage, does that mean that my werewolf state gets agitated? If it's self-inflicted?
Matt: If it's self-inflicted, no.
Noelle: Okay, all right. I'm going to amplify it. So that means I take 14.
Matt: All righty. So go ahead and roll your Crimson Rite die, which I think is a d8. So you just roll a d8 and you take that much damage.
Noelle: Oh. Right. I thought that it was my other one, so that's fine. That's great. I took one point of damage.
Matt: There you go. So you take one point of damage, and, as far as the Mutual Suffering-- All right, there you go. So. You watch as you rush up to it, you slash it twice with your claws, and as you pick up your sword, you put one hand up, and as you close your fist, you watch as blood pools in the center of your palm and drips out the corners of your fingers. As it does, you watch the veins on the outside of Utugash's stomach pulse for a second, and his chuckle goes (groans), like he got a tummy ache. All right, that ends your turn.
Noelle: Told you I was going to going to be extra.
Liam: The bear musk over here is palpable. (laughter)
Matt: So that finishes Tova turn. Grog.
Travis: Ah! I want to get in on the melee party. May I run up to his opposite side?
Matt: Certainly.
Travis: Just where his right arm is. Just so he's got escorts on each end. May I smash together my Titanstone Knuckles?
Matt: You may.
Travis: It's like the Autobots.
Laura: Yeah, it was good!
Liam: (sings) You got the touch--
Marisha: (sings) You got the power!
Liam: (sings) You got the power!
Matt: You transform into your larger self.
Travis: What's up, bitch? May I make two reckless attacks?
Matt: You may.
Travis: Thank you. That's a 30.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: 19. Nice. That is 36.
Matt: 36?
Travis: No, that can't be. 33.
Matt: 33. Damage?
Travis: No, I did the second hit.
Matt: Both hit. Go ahead and roll damage for each.
Travis: 18 for the first one. These are two-handed, by the way. 22 for the second one.
Matt: Nice! So 40 points of damage on the two strikes. As you rush up, almost diving into the pool, you skirt off to the side, slam the Titanstone Gauntlets together and grow to your larger size. Swirling the axe in the air, you go (whoosh), and the second strike in a big X formation across the side of it. You see it gashing across the arm and the upper muscles of the shoulder, and you see his fingers grip the axe with more anger and frustration.
Travis: Oh, and this is the Thrower. It's still the Dwarven Thrower, though, the hammer.
Matt: Right, right, the hammer, okay.
Travis: Can I use my bonus action to go into a frenzied rage?
Matt: You may.
Travis: Thanks. And I don't get to attack.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: What color is pit fiend blood?
Matt: It's a dark, dark blackish-purple. All righty, that ends Grog and Tova's turn. Percival.
Taliesin: That's looking really crowded over there. I'm going to wander over to that first prison cell and take a look inside that door.
Laura: (gasps) Percival!
Matt: Okay, make a perception check.
Marisha: Percival. (laughs)
Laura: I'm standing in the corner looking at him like, (whispers) what are you fucking doing?
Taliesin: Yeah, a lot. 27.
Matt: You glance inside, and you can see what appear to be piles of goods: small chests, boxes, crates. It looks like various things that have been collected and just shoved in this corner and locked up. There is a lock on this door.
Taliesin: Okay. How's my visual on that guy through the window?
Matt: Through here?
Taliesin: And I ignore anything other than full cover. I ignore three-quarter cover.
Matt: Yeah, you have visual.
Taliesin: All right. I'm going to take my first shot at that lock.
Matt: You don't have a bonus action, we'll say, because you moved up and just glanced inside.
Taliesin: Yeah, that's fine.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'll take my first shot with the Pepperbox at that lock.
Matt: The lock? Okay, go for it.
Taliesin: That's 27.
Matt: 27? Okay, go ahead and roll damage on the lock.
Taliesin: Obviously it doesn't take psychic damage. That's 16 points of damage.
Matt: 16 points of damage? The lock blasts off, and leaves hanging a small piece of twisted, turned metal that once was the top of it. The door is now unlocked and open.
Taliesin: Cool. I'm going to turn and take my last two shots at Orthax. I've got a plan.
Matt: Utugash.
Taliesin: I've got an Orthax plan, never mind. I've just given the game away!
Noelle: Yelling out the wrong name in bed, eh? (laughter)
Marisha: Are you having PTSD flashbacks, Percival? Are you okay?
Taliesin: Oh man! I'm too tired. I'm going to mess up my plan! This is so bad.
Liam: I'm totally into you, (stammering) Utugash.
Taliesin: First shot, I'm going to take the Animus, and I'm going to try for a trick shot, for an arm shot. One for Grit, and just for safety's sake-- no, that's all. That's a 31 to hit.
Matt: 31 hits.
Taliesin: And that's ten, plus eight, plus 1d6 psychic. Plus I'm going to burn eight points of Cabal's Ruin, which empties Cabal's Ruin.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: So that's going to be 14 points of damage, plus one point of psychic damage, plus--
Matt: 8d6 lightning.
Sam: Oh, shnikes!
Matt: Cabal's Ruin, man. Vestiges (singsong) at your disposal!
Taliesin: Five, six. Yeah, I'll take a seven and an eight, I'll give these back to you. (continues counting) 23 points, does that seem right?
Matt: 23 points, okay.
Taliesin: 23 points of lightning damage. And also he has to do a strength check or drop the axe.
Matt: It's a 29.
Taliesin: He makes that strength check! (laughter)
Matt: He had a natural 19.
Taliesin: And, just for fun, I'll take one more shot.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: That's 31 to hit, that hits. Nothing fancy on this one, obviously, just the old-fashioned-- 16 points of damage plus one point of psychic damage.
Matt: Okay, nice.
Taliesin: And then I'm going to use the rest of my turn to, if possible, open that door and get behind it for cover, of that room.
Matt: Okay, because you blew the lock off and the door's somewhat ajar, we'll say you move it open and get partially inside, that's as far as you can get.
Taliesin: I just want to use it for cover.
Matt: All right, so you get behind the door, and you're ducking in the side there. Perfect. Okay. At the end of your turn, Utugash is going to use a legendary action to attack you.
Noelle: Bring it.
Sam: Ursa Major.
Noelle: That's my wrestling name.
Matt: That is going to be a 16 to hit. I think that hits you because you have no armor on.
Noelle: It hits. Yeah, I don't have no armor on.
Matt: So, as the giant axe swings towards you, that's going to be 23 points of slashing damage with the axe. However, that does trigger the Mutual Suffering, so he takes 23 points of necrotic damage from the impact. As the axe swings and cuts across your bear chest, all of sudden, where the blood bulged earlier, you watch a secondary wound open simultaneously where no weapon was apparently visible and blood begins to just trickle out. Devil blood.
Travis: Teach me.
Laura: That. Was. Sick.
Matt: And he's going to use, as part of his last legendary action, and does another maneuver with his finger like that.
Taliesin: He did another thing.
Laura: He did another gesture? What gesture? What did he do?
Noelle: Oh, fuck!
Travis: Same thing.
Matt: He did this.
Liam: Gang sign, gang sign.
Laura: Oh no, people are watching.
Sam: Was it this thing?
Matt: So, at the top of the round-- The only people in the room right now, Keyleth is face-first on the ground. I need Tova and Grog to make perception checks, if you could.
Laura: What about Trinket? Trinket's got a really good sense of smell.
Matt: Have Trinket roll a perception check.
Noelle: 17.
Travis: Two!
Laura: Wait, with his keen sense of smell-- Okay. 17 plus-- what does he add to it? Anything?
Matt: Whatever his perception bonus is.
Laura: Oh, wow! 17 plus nine. 26!
Matt: Trinket doesn't know why, but he's like (sniffs). And you watch Trinket looking around the room. The pit fiend is not alone. You don't know where anything else is, but while the room appears to be empty, Trinket is picking up other scents in the room.
Noelle: Can I talk to Trinket? Can I understand Trinket?
Matt: (laughs) Sure.
Laura: Yes!
Matt: Why not? Your bear form, you speak bear
Laura: Yes! Ah, I love this!
Liam: Everybody buckle up.
Matt: "There's something here!" (laughter)
Matt: (sniffs) "Two! Small."
Noelle: There's two! Small!
Travis: Why do you sound like a bear?
Matt: You hear the sound of grinding stone. You don't see anything. Unfortunately, the low light in here, and your not great perception, you don't pick out any visual, other than-- a familiar sound to you, Grog-- as something in the ceiling opens up, and suddenly searing hot oil comes spilling from the ceiling, down onto both you, Trinket, and Tova. I need you to make dexterity saves, Tova, Trinket, and Grog.
Laura: Don't fuck me Gil. Oh, Gil. Did he get an advantage, though, because he sniffed out people?
Matt: Nope!
Laura: Damn it.
Travis: Should've gone with Gil.
Matt: Three.
Travis: Seven.
Laura: Nine.
Matt: All right, that is 21 points of fire damage to Trinket, Tova, and Grog.
Laura: 29?
Matt: 21 points of fire damage.
Sam: Does he take 21 points of fire damage?
Travis: I am resistant to fire.
Matt: Devils have a strange thing called immunity to fire damage.
Sam: Immunity? Not just resistance, immunity?
Matt: They're devils, man.
Travis: So I'm resistant to fire, but this is boiling oil, does that count?
Matt: It's considered fire damage because it's the heat that does it, so you take half of that. Put you at ten. So as that's happening, as the oil splashes down, you guys are tensing from the impact. Vax, you peer around the corner and you hear (creaking), and you look to the other side just as the portcullis has been lifted, and you see coming out of the opposite side the chamber is one of the bone devils that you've seen wandering in the street and is pouring from the other side. Its claws come through. It's as wide as the hallway, its jaw unhinges, its tongue slathering, these small flapping insect-like wings across the back of its scapula, its claws reach out towards you.
Liam: The rest of the party hears  ermagerd, ermagerd, ermagerd!
Laura: Did you already ask if the pit fiend took damage because you took damage?
Noelle: Oh, did he take damage from me? Was my curse still in effect?
Matt: Once he takes the damage, the curse is up. It's just for one hit.
Noelle: Sorry. I tried my best.
Matt: But he took 23 free damage, which is nice. Vax, he's going to take three attacks on you. That is a 27.
Liam: Yeah, that kind of hits.
Matt: All right, that is a 20.
Liam: That does not hit.
Matt: And with the tail, that is a 24.
Liam: That also hits. I will use Uncanny Dodge for the tail.
Matt: Okay. So the first claw hits you, you take 11 points of slashing damage, and as the first claw strikes you across the chest, the second one, you manage to duck right out of the way, it slams into the stonework, and as you glance up, you try and dodge and roll out of the way as the tail scrapes you across the back. That is 18 points of piercing damage, reduced to six, and you would have the possibility of becoming poisoned; however, you guys are still under the effect of Heroes' Feast, so that does not affect you.
Noelle: So his tail's poisoned?
Matt: Now it is Utugash's turn.
Noelle: Oh my god, that wasn't even his turn.
Travis: That was the turn, right?
Matt: Utugash stands here with the axe and goes, the mouth not moving, you just hear the voice echoing between your ears. It's sourceless and in your face, "Now that we're all gathered around--" There's a flash of red in the eyes and suddenly the ground circling him erupts into flames. A wall of fire is now currently circling the vicinity.
Travis: Oh shit.
Matt: This entire column of 20 foot tall flames encircle him and bursts up, singeing Grog, Trinket, and Tova.
Laura: Just singeing.
Noelle: Seemed like such a good idea!
Liam: How high is the ceiling in that room?
Matt: It's about 25 feet.
Liam: So there's a little space up top?
Matt: A little bit.
Laura: We can see through the fire.
Matt: You can't see through the fire, the fire completely obscures your visual of him. All you see is flames, and you see the vague shadows of Tova, Grog, and Trinket, now currently engulfed in them. I need you guys to all roll dexterity saving throws.
Laura: Natural 20!
Matt: Nice!
Noelle: 15.
Travis: God, son of a bitch. 12.
Matt: All righty, everyone but Trinket failed.
Travis: What, a 15 and 12 don't make it?
Matt: 23 points of fire damage to Grog and Tova.
Travis: Resistant, so I got halved.
Matt: So that's 11 to you and Trinket. Trinket takes 11. Currently nobody else has visual range. You have no vision for Percy. Any ranged attacks, you cannot see the creature. Utugash sits there in the flames surrounding him, seemingly not interested in moving at the moment, enjoying the current position.
Laura: How are we going to get him out of those flames, man?
Liam: Tary, you got some kind of Dispel Magic over there?
Sam: I am so weak.
Laura: Don't you have spells? You have so many spells!
Sam: You guys want a window somewhere?
Noelle: Could you put a window through him? And that would kill him.
Travis: He's real strong.
Liam: All right, I'm going to use my bonus action to cast Vow of Enmity on the bone devil.
Matt: All righty, Vow of Enmity is in play.
Liam: Then I'm going to use one of my two actions, I'm using an action to Disengage from the bone devil and dance back past Doty.
Matt: Dance back past Doty? All righty.
Liam: And then I'm going to chuck a goddamn Vestige at this motherfucker.
Matt: At the bone devil?
Liam: At advantage. Oh, I rolled the same thing on both. 24 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: Okay, so, he's going to get it. Right, here we go. Two plus eight is ten, plus--
Sam: How tall is the room?
Matt: About 25 feet tall.
Sam: So there's a little window on top.
Matt: A little four or five foot gap, very small.
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: I already like it. This is a beautiful glimmer in your eye. I'm excited.
Sam: Well, it's something, isn't it?
Liam: 38, and I will Smite him as well. 52.
Matt: 52 points of damage. Nice. As you throw the dagger, as the creature watches you dart past, it streaks out to try and strike at you, but you're already gone. As you turn around, you throw the dagger. It strikes right into the chest of the bone devil, as it bursts with this dark grayish-white light indicative of the Raven Queen's direct impact. As it bursts, you watch as part of the flesh tears open, showing the dark bluish purple sinew and muscle beneath, and the devil just (growls).
Travis: Get out of that hallway!
Liam: That's it, I'm done.
Matt: That brings us to Vex.
Laura: Okay. So I'm going to come up in front of the window.
Matt: Okay. You glance in and you just see fire and the butt of Trinket sticking out of the fire.
Laura: Great.
Marisha: And my feet.
Matt: Yeah, just up in the air, kicking.
Laura: Can I Hunter's Mark the pit fiend?
Matt: You can't see it.
Laura: That's fine. I know where he was, right? Trinket is facing him, so can I try to shoot him with an arrow, anyway?
Matt: I'll say, you have no visual on him. You can go ahead and shoot. Go for it, try it. Disadvantage.
Laura: I have Sharpshooter, I don't know if that helps at all.
Matt: No, he's completely covered.
Laura: Okay, let's try this out. Those are being aggressive. The lower of the two rolls was 29.
Matt: Okay. You watch as you fire your arrow and it disintegrates upon touching the wall of fire. The actual shaft burns as it impacts in the flames.
Laura: Okay.
Noelle: You should've used your fire-proof arrows.
Laura: I know, right? Those fire-proof arrows. Great. If I shot an arrow from a Blazing Bowstring so it was already a fire arrow, you think it would go through?
Matt: Give it a shot.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to do that.
Matt: Okay. So, second attack, Blazing Bowstring, go ahead and roll with disadvantage.
Laura: 19.
Matt: 19. You go ahead and fire. It isn't consumed by the flames, but the arrow you hear exit the other side and then ricochet off the far wall and miss the creature's target.
Laura: Well, it could have been cool. Okay. Trinket is going to use his bonus action to try to attack him, even though he's not magical and he's a little piece of shit.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Laura: That is a 26.
Matt: 26 does hit.
Laura: Yeah, go Trinket.
Travis: Come on, Trink.
Laura: Yeah, that's good, too! That's a 15.
Matt: 15. Halve that to seven, seven points of slashing damage across. Through the fire, still bravely fighting into it.
Laura: Yeah. And I'm going to tell Trinket, back the fuck out of the fire, Trinket!
Matt: That's a good plan.
Laura: What are you doing? Stop attacking! Get out of the fire!
Matt: Backs up and gets out of the flames, backing up against the wall.
Laura: Yeah. And then I'm going to back away from the window.
Matt: All right.
Laura: I'm going to back away from the window.
Matt: Where do you want Trinket to land, by the way?
Laura: Just into the corner, like where the angle of the wall is.
Matt: Over there?
Laura: Yeah, right there.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And I'm going to back away from the window to where he doesn't have visual on me.
Matt: You back out of the way of the window, over here?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. As Trinket backs into that corner, I need Trinket to go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Laura: Of course.
Noelle: Come on, Trinket, come on.
Laura: Come on, Trink!
Travis: Aww.
Noelle: Aww.
Laura: Aww.
Laura: It almost was really good, but it wasn't. Six!
Matt: A giant cage falls from the ceiling of heated metal and lands on him, filled with spikes and (sad bear noises). You hear Trinket yell from the other side. Trinket takes seven points of piercing damage.
Laura: You did that to an animal!
Marisha: You don't fuck with a ranger's bear!
Matt: And six points of fire damage from the heated metal, and Trinket is currently restrained, has to try and break free to get out.
Laura: You're evil.
Matt: Nope, Utugash is evil. There is a definite distinction.
Travis: Mr. Mercer, we pulled you over for speeding tonight. (different voice) No, I wasn't speeding tonight. The pit fiend was speeding.
Matt: It's important, guys. All righty, so. That ends your turn, Vex. Taryon, you're up.
Sam: Jesus.
Travis: Fix everything.
Laura: Make it better.
Sam: I'm nobody! Is it just a cage or is there a door on the bear cage?
Matt: It looks like there is no visible door, you'd have to tear it off of him.
Sam: That's not going to happen. Okay, our last fight, I had hasted myself. That was more than a minute ago, though, right?
Matt: I'd say it's about halfway done. This has all happened pretty quickly, because as soon as the battle started with the cambion that you guys chased out, every round thereafter, it's still going. So you still have five more rounds of Haste.
Sam: Okay, well then, I'll go into the place.
Matt: Okay, you jump over the window. Keyleth breaks your fall.
Sam: Oh. Sorry! It's hard to see with my helmet! No peripheral vision.
Matt: Yeah, and you see a column of flame just flickering and burning in the center of the room. Occasionally, you see a wing tip carve through the top as the creature is moving within the wall of fire.
Sam: Oh my god.
Noelle: (laughs) Do you have a fire extinguisher?
Sam: No! I don't have anything! How far can I move, hasted?
Matt: Double your movement.
Sam: You just double your movement. Okay. So my movement's 30, so I can move in there with him?
Matt: If you wanted to, yeah.
Sam: Okay. I'm just going to go, (yells) and run into the fire.
Matt: You rush into the flames. I need you to roll a dexterity saving throw.
Sam: Advantage on dexterity saves. Oh. All right, no. That's nine.
Matt: 30 points of fire damage.
Sam: Halved.
Matt: Halved because of?
Sam: My Helm of Brilliance.
Matt: That's true. There you go. So 15 points of fire damage to you, Taryon. As you rush through, you're like, "Hah!" The fire was enough, and you sit there and look right up on this massive, like, swollen devilish entity with giant red leathery wings, lower jaw with hooked tusks that stick out the bottom, gleaming yellow piercing eyes, giant horns that curl up from the brow, a giant axe in one hand and the other hand just points at you and goes, "Hi." in the center of your head.
Sam: I'm just going to say, "Hi. It's a little warm in here. Here, cool off." And I'll throw acid on him. (laughter)
Matt: All right, go ahead and make the attack.
Sam: I don't know what I'm rolling. 14. This is to hit? It's magic? I don't know, how does this work?
Matt: Well, no-- hold on.
Sam: It's a vial of acid.
Matt: I'm going to pull up your class here, just to check it out.
Sam: I never know if this is a spell attack bonus sort of a thing.
Matt: When you throw it, they have to make a saving throw. So what's your DC?
Sam: The DC of the spell is 17.
Matt: 17. Okay, and it requires a saving throw. Because it's the acid.
Laura: I like how the music stopped while we figure this out.
Matt: It's dexterity. Okay. That is 17.
Sam: So he resists it completely.
Matt: Creature must succeed or take-- yeah, he resists it entirely.
Laura: Balls!
Matt: Yeah, sorry.
Sam: No problem.
Matt: So as you throw it, it hits the edge of the horn and just shatters and breaks behind it.
Sam: Oh. All right. I think I get a bonus still, maybe?
Matt: You do have a bonus.
Sam: I will cast Sanctuary on myself.
Matt: What you do is you have an extra attack-- as Haste you get your action.
Sam: Okay, that was my action.
Matt: That was your action. You have another action to do a melee attack if you want to.
Sam: Ooh, okay. I will stab him with my lance.
Matt: Okay, go for it. Roll for an attack. So yeah, as hasted, you get the additional attack.
Sam: Ooh, that's going to hit. It's a 25.
Matt: That hits, actually. Go ahead and roll the damage. And it is a magical weapon, so he's not resistant to it.
Travis: What sound do you make when you hit him?
Sam: (high-pitched grunt) (laughter)
Sam: Like a breathy (grunts).
Travis: Work on your war face.
Sam: That's 1d12. Thank you very much. That's seven.
Laura: Do you add anything to it?
Sam: No wait, I get a plus six. Ooh, and it was a six! That's 13.
Matt: Is that fire damage?
Sam: No, the fire damage is another plus one, but I don't think you'll be adding that.
Matt: No.
Sam: (laughs) Yeah, so 13.
Matt: 13 points of damage against the pit fiend as you stab it and you can cast Sanctuary on yourself as your bonus.
Sam: I will, and as I do that I also say, Doty-- remember how I said back up Grog? Me! Back up me! (laughter)
Matt: As Doty charges forward and rushes in. I need Doty to make a dexterity saving throw.
Sam: Oh no. 16 plus-- what's his dexterity?-- zero, so 16.
Matt: Doty takes 30 points of fire damage.
Sam: (groans) He's unconscious.
Marisha: Already?
Sam: I don't know when the last time we rested was but I have down that he only has 30 hit points left. Did he take damage at some point?
Matt: Well because he hurt himself going through the metal outside. So Doty comes rushing in and goes (impact sound) and just collapses on the ground next to you, superheated. (sizzling noise)
Sam: Oh no! Is he going to melt?
Matt: You don't think so.
Sam: He's in the fire, right?
Matt: He's in the fire, yeah.
Sam: Oh god. Is he making some sort of window that someone else could walk over?
Matt: No, the flames curl around, sorry. All right, so that ends Taryon's turn.
Sam: Good, I'm glad I used that last little thing. (laughter)
Sam: Killed my best friend.
Laura: Tary, it's your only friend!
Matt: At the end of the turn, the pit fiend sticks a hand out of the flames and does this motion. Make a perception check again, Grog.
Travis: Not a problem.
Matt: And Tova, both you guys.
Travis: 14.
Liam: Tova fire.
Noelle: A 17.
Matt: 17, okay. Still not quite noticing anything, but you're starting to notice that there are these small, inset stone circles on the wall behind him, over in this area. And you watch as two of them go (stone grinding) and get pressed in by themselves.
Travis: Into the wall, or out from the wall?
Matt: Into the wall. Like something just pressed this giant, circular stone button-- separately.
Travis: We're in an engine.
Matt: So Vax, where you are, the floor, you hear a (click), like something releasing. I need you to make a dexterity saving throw.
Liam: Oh well, I'm good. I'm fine, I'm at advantage. Hopefully that's good. Not that good.
Laura: Oh my god. Can you use Luck?
Liam: No, hold on. This is dexterity.
Travis: It might be balloon animals, don't sweat it yet.
Liam: Oh man, it's not great. It's 16.
Laura: Use Luck.
Liam: I think I have one left? I think I have one left. So I'm going to use it.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Liam: Oh, that's better. That is 25.
Matt: 25 is enough. The ground suddenly hinges out from under you, and you leap up and jam your blades into each side of the wall and put your foot out to the side, and it's almost not enough to press into the small space, but you just barely catch yourself, Van Damme-style, on each side. The bone demon across from you, its wings flare up as the ground tumbles out from under you. You see about ten feet below you a pool of molten iron that is just (burbling). It stays open, swinging for a few seconds, before it closes once more beneath you.
Liam: Good to know.
Marisha: I'm really glad you used that Luck!
Travis: How do you know it's not molten steel? Kidding.
Matt: One way to find out. That brings us to Keyleth.
Marisha: Oh, jeez! Okay. I roll over.
Matt: You stand up and see Trinket currently trapped in the cage next to you just whining (sad bear whimpers).
Marisha: It's okay, buddy! Just hang on. Tsunami coming though, look out! I'm going to do a Tidal Wave and go (bwoosh). Do you have the laser pointer? What are these red pools of things?
Laura: That's molten blood, he said.
Marisha: It's molten blood?
Matt: All right, so you're doing Tidal Wave.
Marisha: I want to try and avoid my friends. It's ten-foot-wide.
Travis: If you've got to, you know who to aim it at.
Marisha: In fact, there's a ten-foot gap, right, Matt? Between everybody? Right up front?
Matt: Right up front there's a little bit of a gap there, and Doty is on the ground, you can step on Doty.
Marisha: It's ten foot, right? Can I do my Tidal Wave from this direction backwards?
Matt: How wide is the Tidal Wave?
Marisha: Ten feet.
Matt: It's still going to hit somebody.
Marisha: Who's it going to hit?
Matt: There's five feet between Taryon and Tova, and--
Travis: Either me or Taryon. I mean, Doty. Or whoever.
Marisha: I know Grog is dextrous, so Grog can take it. Sorry, Grog. But I want to start here and go backwards. Towards you.
Matt: Towards me? So this way. Okay. You're choosing Taryon?
Marisha: No, Grog, to get hit.
Matt: So, this way?
Marisha: Yeah. It's a ten-foot-wide column that I just want to go back.
Matt: Right. In order for it to hit the pit fiend? It's going to hit either Taryon--
Marisha: Or Grog!
Matt: No, because Grog's far off to the side-- If it comes back this way, it's just going to hit Grog.
Marisha: Sorry, I was confused, when you said Grog. So who's it going to hit?
Matt: It's going to hit either Taryon, or it's going to have to hit Tova and Doty.
Noelle: Do what you've got to do.
Marisha: Tova.
Noelle: Sorry I pushed you out a window. (laughter)
Matt: I need Tova to make a dexterity saving throw.
Marisha: Only because I think she's more dextrous than him.
Noelle: That is 11.
Matt: What is it?
Noelle: 11.
Matt: That's not going to work for a spell DC. However, Utugash does not make the save either! With a roll of a six plus eight, that is a 14. So, that's 4d8 bludgeoning damage, go ahead and roll that.
Sam: Oh man. Kill our own guest?
Marisha: No, it's not that much. Five, six, seven-- Ten, and a reroll, I do an eight! So that's eight-- 23 damage, thank you.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: And he should be knocked prone--
Sam: That's not a seven.
Marisha: No, it's an eight. Wait, five, seven, that's 10, 18. 18 damage.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: And he's knocked prone.
Matt: As is Tova.
Marisha: And then the water spreads across the ground in all directions, and extinguishes unprotected flames in an area within 30 feet of it?
Matt: Correct!
Marisha: That's all I cared about, mainly?
Matt: So, the water (whoosh), and the wall of fire in that one section (sputtering, fire roaring back to life). Unfortunately, the enchantment continues to produce flames once the spell disseminates the water. The nature of the spell is it perpetually conjures fire. So, there is a brief moment where it causes a gap, and the flames pick up once more. He is knocked prone, he took damage.
Marisha: Okay. I tried. Sorry, guys.
Matt: Are you going to move, or are you going to stay where you are, Keyleth?
Marisha: I'm going to back up as-- Can I crawl? Do I have enough movement to crawl back through the window?
Matt: You do.
Marisha: I'll do that.
Matt: So you go back there, and you can move right back, around--
Marisha: Yeah, I want to keep it, use it as like cover.
Matt: Okay. That ends Keyleth's turn. Tova. Grog.
Noelle: Took some damage. Little bit. But I'm prone.
Matt: So you can get up and use half your movement.
Noelle: Okay, I've got to make a wisdom saving throw to not attack anyone.
Matt: Are you under half health?
Noelle: Yes, I am. Oh! I actually did it! Okay, it's fine, don't worry! False alarm, everything's fine!
Matt: So you maintain control.
Noelle: Don't worry about it! We'll deal with it later when it comes up!
Sam: What would've happened to me?!
Noelle: No, everything's fine! We're good! So, if I stand up, that takes half my turn?
Matt: Half your movement.
Noelle: Okay. Well, I'm going to stand up.
Matt: You're still in the flames, currently.
Noelle: Well, that's not good.
Matt: You can take your turn and then back out of the flames, if you wanted to.
Noelle: I'm going to use my Crimson Rite to light up my claws.
Matt: With what type of--
Noelle: With frozen. Does that help me with fire at all? Can I bat the flames away with my icy paws?
Matt: Your hands feel more comfortable.
Noelle: Okay. (laughter)
Matt: Where once was these giant bear claws, you watch as mystic ice gathers around them, turning into longer razors that extend from your regular claws.
Noelle: All right; I'm going to come to this guy, and--
Laura: Eat it, Utugash!
Noelle: My claw attacks with the Rite, does that increase--
Matt: Not to hit, but it does an additional 1d8 cold damage per strike.
Noelle: All right. That's a 26.
Matt: That hits.
Laura: Do you get advantage because he's prone?
Matt: You do get advantage because he's prone--
Noelle: 24.
Matt: That hits. The third attack, if you want to use your bonus-- You already used your bonus, you only get two. Both hit! Roll damage.
Noelle: All right. That is a 13. And that's a 15.
Matt: Add 2d8 cold damage to that as well, because of your Crimson Rite.
Noelle: 2d8. Can I use my Great Weapon to reroll my one, here?
Matt: Yeah.
Noelle: That is a four and a five. So, nine.
Matt: Nice! That's a total of 37 points of damage in two strikes. Do you want to back out of the flames?
Noelle: Yeah, that'd be good.
Matt: You can get that far out of the way. You back up just out of the fire. Look over, and there's another bear chained in that place. That ends your turn. Grog.
Travis: Osh kosh magosh, it's time for hammers. Can I advance through the ring of fire and on him more?
Matt: Unfortunately, because of both of your sizes, you cannot advance into the ring. He takes up too much space. You're either standing right in the middle of the ring and just taking it, or you're going to have to back out of it.
Laura: What if you jump on him?
Matt: You can try, if you want to.
Laura: You could jump on him!
Travis: That's not actually a terrible idea. Because at the worst I just fall off one side or the other into the boiling blood-- I'll just stay in the ring of fire. I don't want to test the Sriracha pit just yet. Because he's prone, do I get advantage on the attacks without having to use Reckless?
Matt: Correct.
Travis: Can I make all three of my frenzied attacks?
Matt: You may.
Travis: With advantage. 35 for the first one.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: Which is ten, 20. 26?
Matt: That hits.
Travis: Nice. That's 29?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Ten. 26 again. 26 points of damage. 19. C'mon, 37.
Matt: Ooh, all righty.
Travis: That's 22 points of damage.
Matt: 22 points of damage, all right.
Travis: Can I use my Action Surge?
Matt: You may.
Laura: Did you take something?
Travis: Second level in Fighter. Groggy got two more hits.
Matt: That's five attacks in one round.
Travis: I can only do it one time. That's a 23.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: 25 points of damage. And that's 29. Hits?
Matt: (high-pitched) Yeah.
Travis: 21 points of damage.
Laura: How much damage did he just do with one turn?
Matt: He did over a hundred.
Travis: But I'm cooking.
Matt: You're staying where you are?
Travis: Yeah, they're really strong hits because I'm burning while I'm doing it. Literally whaling through the fire and just angry.
Matt: Make your dexterity saving throw.
Travis: Advantage on that. That sucks, that's a seven. I have resistance to fire, it's okay.
Matt: 28 points of fire damage. Reduced to half, 14.
Travis: 14, thank you.
Matt: All right, that ends Grog's turn. Percival.
Taliesin: If he's prone, does that mean that negates the difficulty to hit through the ring?
Matt: Well, ranged attacks against prone creatures have disadvantage, naturally, and you can't even see him, you have no visual range. You don't even know that he's prone.
Taliesin: So that's a mess.
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: I still have my movement, can I move out of the ring?
Matt: I was asking if you wanted to do that or not.
Travis: Oh, I would like to, after all the smashing is done.
Matt: You move out and do not take the last bit of fire damage. You take that when you end your turn in the fire. How far do you back up? Just out of the range?
Travis: Just on the cusp of it.
Matt: You step out of it.
Laura: Not to the other corner where there's probably--
Travis: Probably not.
Taliesin: Yeah, I think I can see that Vax is having a little bit of a problem.
Matt: You can glance to the side, yeah.
Taliesin: There's a window in the door. I'm going to swing around the other side of that door really quickly. Perch on the wall right over there and I'm going to take a couple shots at Mr. Skelly Skellington.
Matt: Go for it.
Sam: You're not just in the closet over there sorting through file cabinets?
Taliesin: No, I was tempted to see if it was anything-- We've got him on tax evasion. (laughter) I was hoping we would find a person in there, I'll keep digging. Okay so first shot I'm going to burn a Grit for a torso push.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Actually, I'm going to add Hex to that, just for fun. I'm going to Hex him.
Matt: Okay, cool.
Taliesin: That's 23 to hit.
Matt: 23 hits.
Taliesin: That's 14 points of damage, two points of psychic damage and five points of necrotic. He also has disadvantage on constitution-- checks. And he's pushed ten feet back.
Matt: (slams) up against the wall there.
Taliesin: I'm going to shoot him two more times.
Travis: Is the portcullis closed behind you?
Matt: The portcullis is currently closed. As soon as he pushed through it.
Taliesin: Second shot, I'm going to burn one more Grit and I'm going to try for a head shot. Which will give him disadvantage on next round's attacks.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: 24 to hit.
Matt: 24 hits.
Taliesin: That's 11 points of normal damage, five points of psychic damage and two points of necrotic-- piercing damage. He has to save against a constitution saving throw. Against 20.
Matt: That is a 16.
Taliesin: He has disadvantage on all of his physical attacks for the next round.
Matt: Okay, cool.
Taliesin: One more shot for fun and let's make this a sharpshooter.
Matt: Sure.
Taliesin: That was not my wisest thing ever. 16.
Matt: 16 does not hit, unfortunately.
Taliesin: Oh well.
Liam: I don't think Vax has ever had one of Percival's bullets go right by his ear. It is unsettling.
Taliesin: I'm going to flip back around on the other side of that. I'm going to spider crawl all the way on the other side of that door again.
Matt: All right, that ends your turn. At the end of Percival's turn, there is a grinding sound above. Grog, I need you to make another dexterity saving throw.
Travis: Come on, Gil. 18.
Laura: No!
Sam: Is it big enough to cover his big body?
Travis: It's just like a spiked helmet stabbing me in the cheek.
Matt: It gets around your upper torso and sticks partway on, and your arms are (click) to the side. It tears into you. You take 14 points of piercing damage reduced to seven, and then six points of fire damage reduced to three. You are restrained.
Travis: This one has spikes on the inside too?
Matt: Yep.
Travis: And it's hot?
Matt: And it's hot. (sizzles) as the piercing and the fire damage hits you. You are restrained.
Travis: (warbled scream) Is that how you sound, Tary?
Sam: Always.
Matt: The bone devil's going to fly across and it's actually going to fly over Vax and land on the opposite side.
Liam: Did it go past me? Can I get an attack of opportunity?
Matt: Nope, it flies up high enough to be out of your range and then drops down, both claws arcing towards you with disadvantage. First one's going to be 22.
Liam: Nope.
Matt: Nice. 18.
Liam: Nope.
Laura: What's your AC?
Liam: Hasted, with both daggers out? It's 23.
Matt: With the tail, it is 19. All three miss.
Sam: Why does he have disadvantage?
Taliesin: I shot him in the face.
Matt: Yeah, one of the eyes got blasted on the side. Part of the skull is broken and destroyed.
Taliesin: That happens when I breathe for a second before I shoot.
Matt: At this point in time--
Laura: Oh no, he's pulling things out!
Liam: More miniatures.
Matt: Two more devil characters come through. The portcullis rises as they pass through, and they go into a full run into this chamber. You see these red-skinned devil humanoids rush in with these long jagged spears. Horned crests on their head, and from where their chins are, there are these writhing tentacles covered in thorns and barbs that move and twist around.
Travis: What sweet hell did your imagination come from?
Matt: Full movement, with the double dash, that guy will get there, this guy will get about there. That's as far as they can get. Not fully up to anybody yet. All right, we have Utugash. Stands up in the flames and looks down at Taryon Darrington.
Sam: Good day to you, sir. Do you know my father?
Matt: You hear the voice echo in the center of your mind, "Good day, and good night!" It's going to make a full round of attacks on you.
Sam: Oh boy.
Matt: So that is 30 to hit.
Sam: Yeah, of course. Doty will save-- Nope.
Matt: As he leans forward and takes a big chunk with his bite out of the front of your-- tries to get to the helmet and the jaw sticks under the chin. That's going to be 24 points of piercing damage. However, you are immune to poison so you don't have to worry about his poison right now thanks to your-- So, the helmet catches most of the brunt of it, and one of the teeth jabs you right underneath the jaw and you can feel it pierce and begin to bleed from underneath. As soon as he pulls back and shoves you aside and releases its grip, as its claw strikes out from its left arm. That is a 16 to hit.
Sam: Because I'm hasted, that does not hit.
Matt: It rolled a two to hit. You just manage to duck out of the way.
Sam: Haha!
Matt: As you say, 'Haha!' the axe comes from the other side-- That is a 22 to hit.
Sam: I have ve-- Ah! Yeah, that hits.
Matt: Double nines. That is 28 points of slashing damage. The flames that currently engulf the axe-- The axe has burst into flames. He swings with it, deals an additional 16 points of fire damage.
Sam: Halved.
Travis: How many ds of what did you roll?
Matt: 6d6.
All: Ooh! No!
Matt: And using the momentum of the axe, the entire body of the pit fiend spins around the tail, whipping towards you. That is 20 to hit.
Sam: Me? But I'm just a man! Yeah, of course that hits.
Matt: As the tail swings past, that is 28 points of bludgeoning damage.
Laura: Are you alive, Tary?
Sam: I'm okay because Marisha reminded me that when I was not here one week, she gave me an extra 17 hit points, which I still have.
Matt: The Inspiring Leader feat.
Sam: They're helping me a lot right now.
Matt: Utugash stays there in the center of the flames, just waiting for people to come to him.
Travis: He still looks nonplussed? Just chill?
Matt: You don't know, you can't see through the fire. That brings us to the top. Vax, you're up.
Liam: All right, I'm going to shoot out my fucking wings and I'm going to Hunter's Mark the asshole, and then I'm going to skip--
Matt: The guy you're fighting?
Liam: Yeah. I'm going to skip Disengage and fly backward towards the end of the hall he came out of.
Sam: Matt?
Matt: Yeah?
Sam: On the first of those attacks, I have Sanctuary.
Marisha: You do.
Sam: It's just one wisdom roll.
Matt: Natural 20, plus ten, 30.
Sam: I think it's safe to say, even in retrospect.
Matt: Yeah, sorry. Time progressed as it was meant to. But good call! So, Vax.
Liam: It was wings, Hunter's Mark, chancing a hit as I fly down the hall away from him.
Matt: This way?
Liam: Yeah, that's good.
Matt: It attacks with the tail. Still has disadvantage. 20.
Liam: Nope.
Matt: Just arcs and misses you as you zoom out.
Liam: I'm going to chuck Whisper using a sharpshooter, but at advantage. 26.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: All right. 11, 21 plus psychic damage, sorry, doing math, be right with you. 58.
Matt: 58, nice! That was towards the bone devil?
Liam: Throwing the dagger? Yeah.
Matt: Right. That was with the Sneak Attack damage, because--
Liam: Because I'm at advantage because of Vow of Enmity.
Matt: Vow of Enmity was on the pit fiend.
Liam: No, it was on the bone devil.
Matt: You're right, it was. You're correct.
Liam: Also Hunter's Mark. So let's up that by one.
Matt: All righty. Cool. That's your single attack?
Liam: I used everything. Wings, Hunter's Mark, and the dagger. Bonus, action, action.
Matt: That ends your turn. Vex.
Laura: If I pop through the window, will I be able to get out of the window? I want to pop through the window, get Trinket in the locket; that's what I'm going to do first.
Matt: You come through, step through--
Laura: Go, Buddy!
Matt: As you do, Trinket zooms into the locket, leaving the cage to clank to the ground.
Laura: I'm going to hop back through the window.
Matt: Okay. That's your turn.
Laura: Can I let him back out of the locket from there, or--
Matt: Next turn, you can.
Laura: That's my whole fucking turn?
Matt: Yup! Tary.
Sam: What happened? Oh, it's my turn?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Oh, great!
Matt: You guys would all be taking Fear Aura checks, but you're immune to fear because of your Heroes' Feast. Just letting you know.
Travis: Fear Aura checks? Oh my god.
Sam: You know how sometimes when we're in fights and bad guys can walk around us without incurring damage?
Matt: You only get attacks of opportunity if you move away. If you stay within range, it doesn't--
Sam: I'm going to clock around him, clockwise.
Matt: Until--
Sam: Yeah, right there's pretty good. Do I see any-- I can't see out of the ring, right?
Matt: You are stepping into the flames to do this.
Sam: Ew, what?
Matt: You can get right here on the edge and not be quite in the fire.
Sam: I'll do that. I'll say, it's been lovely having this time with you in private, but our seven minutes in heaven are up. I need you to leave. I will do the Ring of the Ram at full strength and push him out of his own ring. If it works. That's a one. But I'm feeling Lucky. That's a three. Can I feel really Lucky?
Matt: Unfortunately, it does not work that way, Taryon. I am so sorry.
Sam: No, that's fine. Does it fire?
Matt: It does fire, and I believe it's just a miss. It's a hit-or-miss-type circumstance.
Sam: It just misses. I've lost it all there.
Matt: The ram head goes careening out of the wall of fire, slamming into the stone work and causing a big crack in the stone in the wall. The pit fiend says, "I will eat your face first."
Sam: Oh Jesus, I like my face.
Matt: You're still hasted.
Sam: Still hasted. For my second thing, I can only do a melee attack. I can't cast anything, I can't reach into my satchel or anything.
Matt: The bonus action you have from Haste is for weapon attack only. Or you can try and run away.
Sam: Yeah, I could.
Matt: So he'll get an attack of opportunity on you.
Travis: What would Doty do?
Sam: That's fair.
Laura: Fall over and be unconscious, is what Doty would do.
Sam: I will spend the rest of my turn moving back to where Doty was, picking up his book, putting it in my Bag of Holding so it doesn't burn up. Then crawl into a ball and cast Sanctuary on myself. (laughter)
Matt: That ends Taryon's turn.
Sam: If I don't look, he'll go away!
Matt: That brings us to Keyleth's turn.
Marisha: Where are the little pissant guys?
Matt: There's one there right next to Grog, and one right next to Doty. So there, and there.
Marisha: I'm going to hop through the window again. I'm going to cast Sunbeam.
Matt: Are you gonna move in to try and get them both in the same path?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Sunbeam it is.
Laura: Matt, can I use my bonus action to at least Hide?
Matt: Sure, roll a stealth check. So it's a constitution saving throw for both of the bearded devils.
Laura: 23.
Matt: Okay, good to know. That is a ten--
Marisha: Negative.
Matt: -- and an 18.
Marisha: Negative again.
Matt: So, 6d8 radiant damage to both and they are both blinded.
Marisha: 6d8? Can I have two more d8s, please? Those were definitely d6s.
Taliesin: I'm sorry, here's a d8.
Marisha: Thank you. Oh that's good. 30 points of radiant damage.
Matt: To both of them. Nice. As the beam (pssh) across the room it streaks down the way and both of them get engulfed. As the beam of bright sunlight energy slowly diminishes, their faces are seared. You see smoke pouring out of their eyes as they're both reaching up to the sockets. That was not so good for them. They're both looking pretty rough already.
Marisha: I look at Tary. Tary is within 30 feet of me, yeah?
Matt: You don't see Tary. You just see a column of fire.
Marisha: I don't see Tary.
Matt: Tary is currently inside the wall of fire, curled in a ball. All you see is a giant column of flame in the center of the room. And half of Doty being slowly heated up.
Marisha: Do I see anyone else, and does anyone else look rough?
Matt: You see Grog with a giant cage on his upper body, wrapping around his torso.
Travis: Just spinning in place (confused screams). (laughter)
Noelle: I'm down to 39 hit points.
Marisha: Do I see Tova?
Matt: You do see Tova, yeah.
Marisha: Okay, I say, hey, sorry about the whole Tsunami thing. You got this! And I give her a Healing Word at level one. I'm going to give you-- shit-- plus my spell modifier. Sorry, nine hit points.
Liam: Fixed.
Noelle: All better now.
Matt: Hey, it helps. It all helps. Trust me, it helps. All right, Keyleth, are you going to stay where you are?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: All right, Keyleth stays there. Tova and Grog, you're up.
Noelle: So two questions and one of them is, is my Rite still on?
Matt: Yes it is. Your Rite stays on until you dismiss it.
Noelle: All right, my question also is are these cages still-- would it hurt me to touch one or move one?
Matt: I mean, they're pretty warm to touch.
Noelle: My hands are very cool.
Matt: You know what? Actually, with your claws out, I would say they will do no damage to you because the cold will offset that.
Noelle: All right, so let me know if this sounds doable. I want to grab that cage that Trinket was under.
Matt: Okay.
Noelle: And move it towards where Utugash is. Tary is in the fire, yeah?
Matt: Yes.
Noelle: Can I grab him and pull him back with me, behind this cage?
Matt: He's about 25 feet from you. You don't even know where he is. You know that he's inside the fire, but you don't see him. Because you're outside the flames, all you see is a wall of fire. You have to step into the fire, take the fire damage, grab him and pull him back.
Noelle: Can I just reach (laughs) my cold bear hand into the fire and grab him and pull him out?
Matt: You'll still take the fire damage from the wall of fire, unfortunately.
Noelle: Can I get decreased fire damage?
Matt: It's probably not going to work out. It's magical fire, I'm sorry. But the cage is nearby. You are closer to the cage than you are him. So if you want to grab the cage and move towards him you can do that. Is that what you want to do?
Noelle: Let me-- can I grab this cage and put it between-- this cage is just sitting out, got to do something. Can I throw the cage at that guy who's standing there? He's there, right?
Matt: You can. Go ahead and make a strength check. You have advantage because you are in your bear form.
Noelle: (laughs) That is a 14.
Matt: 14 is fine, that's enough.
Noelle: No, wait. 13. What?
Laura: Didn't you roll an eight?
Liam: Plus your strength of ten. So 18.
Noelle: Oh yeah. Bears are great at math.
Matt: Sorry, this would be an athletics check to lift it, not strength, sorry.
Noelle: Okay, then yeah. 18.
Matt: So you reach over and you grab it and the steam rises up the sides of the cage, and you lift it up over your head, and you're going to go and try to throw it over at this guy there? So as you lift the cage, go ahead and roll for just accuracy on this. Roll an attack, add your proficiency. What did you roll? Oh no. You throw the cage and it rolls into the center of the hallway there, blocking the doorway. Ah, those ones are the worst.
Noelle: I know.
Travis: (laughs) That dice sucks.
Noelle: I know, yeah.
Laura: You seriously need to stop using that one.
Noelle: What else can I do?
Matt: You still have your movement and your bonus if you wanted to do--
Sam: Do you have healing potions?
Matt: You still have your Blood Maladict if you wanted to use any of it.
Noelle: All my stuff is probably in that prison that Percy was in. I don't have any pockets. (laughter)
Sam: Oh yeah.
Noelle: Yeah, I was sort of unprepared for this. I was really excited for this fight.
Marisha: Tiny pockets, this is a problem of women's fashion, to be fair.
Noelle: I know, even with the bears.
Marisha: Why tiny pockets?
Noelle: I know.
Marisha: Come on women's fashion, come on.
Noelle: So I have my bonus action?
Matt: You do.
Laura: What is a Blood Maladict?
Liam: Really cool words on the sheet.
Noelle: I know. Not as helpful as I had hoped. I can see an object's history--
Matt: Grog, what are you doing? While she is figuring this out.
Travis: I'm going to try and get out of the cage.
Matt: All right, go ahead and make a strength skill check.
Travis: I have advantage on those.
Matt: Yes, you do.
Laura: (Grog voice) I have advantage. Ooh, that's good.
Travis: That's better.
Laura: That's better.
Travis: 27.
Matt: 27. As you tense, the metal actually (creaks) and bends out the sides and you just tear the cage off of the top of you. That's your action.
Laura: That's your whole action?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Yep.
Travis: Yep.
Taliesin: You've got bonuses and stuff, though.
Matt: You do. You have your bonus action if you're still raging, so.
Travis: Yeah, I do!
Liam: Waking up!
Travis: I'm going to throw-- Oh, I just see a column of fire.
Matt: You just see a column of fire.
Travis: But I see a motherfucker behind me, don't I?
Matt: You do, yeah.
Travis: He going to turn to jelly. Do I have my movement?
Matt: You do.
Travis: I would like to visit him, please.
Matt: You turn around, and he's right there. Currently with his eyes smoking from being seared with a Sunbeam.
Travis: Hi! Smash.
Matt: Okay, he's blinded, so you have advantage automatically.
Travis: Yay! Natural 20.
Laura: Oh! Can you imagine if you had been attacking the pit fiend?
Travis: Yeah, I know!
Taliesin: Smear him.
Travis: That's 24-- That's two additional damage die.
Taliesin: Like a fat mosquito.
Travis: 30.
Matt: 30 points of damage?
Travis: Yeah. They were all three really low-damage die rolls. Oh! Actually, I can reroll a one or a two, which was that last one! Nine, that's better.
Sam: Doesn't matter, you killed him.
Marisha: Doesn't matter, he's dead. He's so dead.
Matt: As you turn around and see him there, you go, "Hi," wham. He's going (hisses) and hears this "Hi" and his entire head collapses inward and you shove it down to about the height of the rest of his shoulders. He just (wet collapsing noises) to the ground, and just crumples. And then burns into ash and just cinders left behind. Destroyed.
Travis: Cool, huh?
Matt: That's beautiful, is what it is. Ending Grog's turn, Percival, you're up.
Noelle: Wait, can I take my last thing?
Matt: Oh, yeah, that's right! What're you going to do with your bonus?
Noelle: All right, so I can only move or I can only use my bonus action, yeah?
Matt: Correct, yeah.
Noelle: Okay, well, I'm just going to cast Curse of Mutual Suffering on Utugash one more time.
Matt: You currently do not have visual range on him, you can't see him. Does it say, for the curse, that you need to be able to see the creature? That's the question, let me look.
Noelle: It just says, "a creature within 30 feet."
Matt: So, yeah. So you just know where they are. So you can! Curse of Mutual Suffering does hit Utugash, are you going to amplify it, or not?
Noelle: Am I going to what?
Matt: Amplify it, or leave it as it is?
Noelle: Yeah, I'm going to amplify it.
Matt: Go ahead and roll your d8 and take d8 damage.
Noelle: All right, I'm just going to-- Oh! Six. That is six for me.
Matt: All righty.
Noelle: And then I'm going to throw my bear arms wide and just like--
Matt: (laughs) Come at me, bro? (laughter)
Noelle: 'Sup, asshole?
Matt: Perfect. All righty. Percival, you're up.
Taliesin: All right, I'm going to reload. Because boy, I'm out.
Laura: Bubble throat!
Travis: Bubble throat!
Taliesin: Yeah, no, that's right! I was, like, what? What? Bubble-- Yeah. (gravelly mumbling) Got a little thing. I didn't know it had a name, and now it's the obvious name for it. It's bubble throat. I'm going to swing back around and back up a little bit, and I'm going to take three more potshots at that bone, because that's what I can see.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: I'm not going to get close to him. I'm going to back up a bit. Just back up in the middle of the room. I'm going to keep going.
Matt: About there? Sure. Go for it and take your attacks.
Taliesin: Nothing fancy, attack number one  that's 26 to hit. And that's nine points of piercing damage, five points of necrotic damage, and two points of psychic damage.
Matt: Vax, as you're looking across the room, you see the bone devil (hisses), and it rears back, and the wings span out, it looks like he's about to leap. And as it takes its jump, you watch its face explode forward with dark crimson, just, mist, as the head is blown off of its shoulders.
Marisha: Get that Grit back.
Taliesin: Better! And I'm going to see if I can-- Is there anything? I've got two more shots.
Matt: There is one creature in here that you can barely see through the side.
Taliesin: Oh, I can? Oh, all right, let's do that, that's funny. Another shot at that guy.
Laura: It is really hard to see some of these people.
Taliesin: 23?
Matt: Red creatures on dark red. Sorry.
Taliesin: 23?
Matt: 23 hits.
Taliesin: Oh, and that's right, I don't have that anymore, the Hex isn't until next turn where I can move it. That's 15 points of damage plus one point of psychic damage?
Matt: Okay. Still standing, but it's looking rough. You have advantage on these attacks, by the way, because it's blinded.
Taliesin: Oh! All right. And then I'm going to take another shot. I'm going to make this a sharpshooter, just to end this. Yeah, that'll do. That's 14, 20. 25?
Matt: Yep. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: I didn't know I had advantage, that's lovely. That's 18, 19, 20, 21. 25 points of damage and four points of psychic damage.
Matt: So, after the cage goes flying over his head and clangs behind it, it spins around as it hears the impact, and turns back in the direction of Tova. Even though its eyes are currently held shut from the blinding light of the Sunbeam, it rears back with its hooked pull arm and is about to rush towards the torso of Tova, knowing and being able to sense where she is. Right as it rears back (gunshots), two shots, the second one knocking its head limply across the back of its shoulders, and it tumbles to the ground, unmoving.
Marisha: You get another Grit back!
Taliesin: I get another Grit back.
Travis: Get another Grit back.
Marisha: Get that Grit back.
Matt: Is that the end of your turn, Percy?
Taliesin: That is, other than just backing up a little bit more, as far as I can go, just to get out of the--
Matt: (laughs) Just getting away from everything!
Taliesin: Getting away from everything!
Matt: "Ah! Ah!" Okay, perfect.
Taliesin: I'm good at a distance.
Matt: Okay, so. This is on Utugash's turn  Utugash is going to strike with a bite against Taryon Darrington.
Sam: Sure.
Matt: Frustratingly, that's going to be-- oh, it has to make a wisdom save, doesn't it?
Sam: It does.
Matt: For that first attack, that's a natural 20.
Laura: Oh my god!
Matt: Better that than for the attack! But after that, the first attack was a 18 to hit?
Sam: Hits.
Matt: All righty. As it chomps down onto your torso, this time, as opposed to going for the helmet, it goes for the side of the shoulder, its mouth is large enough to go over your shoulder and come in both the chest and the back of the shoulder as it sinks in. That is going to be 24 points of piercing damage. And you're immune to poison, so you don't take that. You're still standing?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: Well, crouching.
Matt: Right.
Marisha: In the fetal position.
Matt: As it's clamped down on you, it takes its claw and rakes across your stomach.
Sam: Technically, it has to roll another wisdom save. It lasts for a minute, it's not per attack, actually.
Matt: It does, you're right! That is a ten plus ten, that is 20.
Sam: He succeeds.
Matt: Okay. The attack roll for that one was a 21.
Sam: Yes.
Matt: So for the claw raking across your torso, that is going to be 21 points of slashing damage.
Sam: (strangled death noises)
Laura: Oh no, Tary!
Matt: And with that, Taryon falls unconscious and bleeding on the ground.
Travis: Tary Jumbo!
Matt: Utugash, after the claws tear across part of the plate armor swings open, and the claw rakes through the side of the torso, leaving the wounds open and bleeding out and steaming across the heavy heated stonework of the room.
Sam: And at that point, do all of their necklaces glow?
Matt: They do. They begin to pulse.
Marisha: That's totally correct, yeah.
Noelle: What's going on?
Travis: I've no idea what this means.
Marisha: Someone's unconscious and we can't tell that they're unconscious.
Matt: At this point, Utugash is going to use his-- The wings take flight at this point, as nothing is immediately in the circle, and he's getting frustrated by this. The wings pick him up in the air. He's going to peek through the top of the form and look over, and he sees Tova and Keyleth, and is going to land, technically on your guys' spaces. This is part of his Corpulent Form ability. I need you both to make dexterity saving throws.
Noelle: Finally, thank you. That is an 18.
Marisha: That's not great. Saving, dex, 14.
Matt: All right. You both suffer 17 points of bludgeoning damage as Utugash's giant form lands on top of you. You are pinned to the ground. You are considered grappled and prone. As Utugash is currently now--
Noelle: So, Utugash also maybe takes some damage from that.
Matt: Yeah, well, takes the same 17 points of damage from the Mutual Suffering.
Noelle: That's something.
Matt: So you're both prone and considered grappled. You cannot move until you get out of the grapple.
Marisha: We're both grappled?
Matt: Yeah, because he's basically sitting on top of you.
Marisha: Fucking dick.
Matt: I need you to make a concentration saving throw to maintain Sunbeam.
Marisha: I have advantage on that.
Matt: You do.
Marisha: I'll take that 18.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah, I just have to beat the damage, correct? 18.
Matt: It's either ten or half of the damage, so you're fine. With you both pinned-- you, at immediate visual perspective, look the most vulnerable to Utugash, as you are a tiny half-elf girl, as far as he's concerned. He's going to use his next two attacks, the axe and the tail, with advantage against you because you are currently knocked prone.
Marisha: Aw, desu desu.
Matt: The axe is going to be a 32 to hit?
Marisha: What? 32?
Matt: 32 to hit.
Marisha: I mean, yeah.
Matt: 25 points of slashing damage.
Marisha: 17 plus 20. Plus 23--
Laura: What are you doing concentration on?
Marisha: My Sunbeam.
Laura: Oh, right.
Matt: So that's 23 points of slashing damage, plus 23 points of fire damage. So a total of 46.
Marisha: Can I use my reaction to cast Absorb Elements?
Matt: If you have it prepared, yeah.
Marisha: Yes, I do.
Matt: Which allows you to?
Marisha: Never done this before. Let me double-check. I capture some of the energy and I store it, and I have resistance to the next damage type that I take that, and the first time I hit with a melee attack on my next turn, I can do an extra 1d6 of that damage type.
Matt: So you take 11 points of fire damage instead.
Marisha: Beautiful.
Matt: So, it does 34 points of damage total.
Marisha: So another 11 would've made it 82. Okay. I have to beat a ten, correct?
Matt: No, you have beat half of the 34, which would be 17. So you have to beat a 17.
Marisha: Nope. Wait, what do I add?
Matt: Your constitution saving throw.
Marisha: Oh! No, I'm good, then. I'm good, that's exactly a 17?
Matt: Okay. Then that's fine, you succeed. And then the tail's going to slam down onto you as well, Keyleth. With advantage on that. 16. Natural 20.
Marisha: What?
Travis: Matthew!
Matt: Natural 20.
Laura: But, wait, what did the next melee attack do to you?
Matt: This is the tail.
Marisha: It's me attacking.
Matt: It's a nine, a ten, and a seven on 3d10, so that is--
Travis: Oh god.
Matt: 62 points of bludgeoning damage.
Marisha: 60-- wait, how?!
Sam: Halved.
Marisha: Halved. Is it halved? Wait, what?
Matt: No.
Marisha: No.
Sam: No.
Marisha: It's not.
Sam: I just like saying that.
Matt: Well, sorry, it's 20-- it was 52 points, because it was a ten, a nine, and a seven. So it would've been 26, just the dice, crit is 52, plus ten, 62. 62 points.
Marisha: I mean, I'm still up.
Sam: Hey, that's good.
Marisha: With 20 hit points. No. I was at 82 minus 62, which means--
Laura: 20 points.
Marisha: 20 points.
Noelle: So, seeing as he, like, landed on me, could I do anything here? Any reaction?
Matt: Do you have a reaction to do?
Noelle: I don't know. (laughs)
Matt: No, not really, you're just like, "Urgh!" You're being sat on by the pit fiend.
Noelle: Even if I was upright, be like a pincushion to sit on?
Matt: I mean, you're holding it off, but his heavy hide against your pincushion-type nails is not going to do much unless you're physically attacking behind it.
Noelle: Icicles.
Matt: I know. And he's resistant to cold, sorry.
Noelle: Just thought I'd check.
Matt: Vax.
Liam: All right, well, my enemy is gone. Percival just shot it through the face, so. I start to fly towards the entrance. The moment I come through and I see Keyleth mangled on the ground underneath, I just react and fly straight at the thing and snag onto his chest like an angry, pissed-off cat, and I just start slicing.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Liam: I'm actually going to bonus action Hunter's Mark him as I land. I'm going to move the Hunter's Mark, excuse me, from the slain guy.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Yep, and okay, and here we go. That is shit. No, well, it's 16. I'm sure it doesn't hit.
Matt: 16 does not hit, no.
Liam: Okay. That is 19.
Matt: 19 does not hit, either. Both angry strikes just hit the hide, but it's too strong, and the devilish scales deflecting the piercing blows.
Liam: I'm going to stay hanging on.
Matt: Okay. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. Hey, I can see him now.
Matt: You can. It's also sitting, currently, on Tova and Keyleth. Keyleth is looking pretty banged up. Tova's looking pretty banged up, and your brother is hacking at it to no avail.
Laura: I don't know what all I could see of that other than just the pit fiend's arm through the window, but I'm going to back up and shoot him. I'm going to Hunter's Mark him first, though!
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And I'm going to-- yeah, that's what I'm going to do.
Matt: Okay. As you back up, he does get a reaction attack of opportunity, because he has a reach.
Laura: Through the window?
Matt: Yeah. As you back up, the tail, after smashing at Keyleth, goes (whoosh) and whips through the window towards you. That's going to be a 25 to hit.
Laura: Yeah, sure, whatever.
Matt: That is 21 points of bludgeoning damage against you.
Laura: Great.
Matt: The tail almost sends you off your feet, almost knocking the wind out of you from the impact to your chest and stomach area. But you slide and catch yourself before tumbling backward.
Laura: (sighs) I hate you. Hunter's Mark!
Travis: Why do you need Hunter's Mark?
Laura: Well, you know.
Liam: I think this is going to be a negative, but a quick clarification question. With them on the ground, then there's no flanking bonus, or anything--
Matt: Nope, they are not threatening him currently.
Liam: That's what I thought. Checking.
Matt: They have to be threatening them to be giving that bonus.
Travis: Tickle!
Matt: (laughs) They are currently under his rump.
Laura: The first one is a one.
Sam: Yay.
Matt: The impact from the chest blow ends up, as you go to grab the arrow, you're already kind of a little off-aim from the the wooziness.
Laura: (grunts in pain) All right. That's fine. I'm going to hit him again, though, or try. That is-- I can add-- 23.
Matt: 23 hits.
Laura: Yes. Okay. Yes! 18 plus one lightning damage, plus 2d6, here we go, and two ones! I'm rolling great! Woo!
Noelle: Want to borrow some dice?
Laura: All of these. All of you guys are goodbyes. And you're a goodbye, too. You can stay.
Matt: All right, so. How much damage was that, total?
Laura: Huh? How much was that?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Oh. 19 total. One of those was lightning damage.
Matt: Okay, good. So, the second arrow does hit. And you're seeing now, Utugash, while looming over and seemingly impervious, at close view, as you get a glance backing up, is looking pretty hurt. Previously, as it's now your second time battling a pit fiend, you're able to see the faint cracks that you're beginning to notice generally show a lot more damage than they do on the surface. So you're starting to see signs of wear, which, based on your previous battle, leads you to believe it's actually pretty hurt. That ends your turn, Vax. And Vex.
Laura: I'm going to back up. I can use the rest of my movement, right?
Matt: You can, yeah.
Laura: And back up around that corner so I'm parallel with Percy there. Yeah, right there.
Matt: Okay. Cool. That brings us to Taryon. I need you to roll a death saving throw.
Sam: Oh, sure. Yeah. Can I feel lucky?
Matt: You can, technically.
Sam: Oh, that's worse. (laughter)
Matt: So that's one failed death saving throw on Tary.
Noelle: Tary.
Laura: I just have a quick question.
Matt: Yeah?
Laura: Since I I haven't used this very much. The Disengage feat that the rogues have, is that a bonus action?
Matt: It's a bonus action to disengage, yeah.
Laura: Okay. Just checking.
Matt: Yeah. You'd already moved your Hunter's Mark, unfortunately, but going forward, you can do that.
Liam: It's a zig-zag motion.
Travis: Serpentine!
Matt: Now.
Travis: Now what?
Noelle: Don't press any more buttons.
Matt: Two imps that were previously invisible in the room and hitting the various buttons across the back wall at his command--
Laura: Oh, it was those fucks.
Matt: Appear and both fly down, swinging towards Keyleth, who's currently pinned underneath. And are just going to begin to start attempting to bite at her. Or, these are the stings, so with advantage, that is six plus five. That is 11. The first one, the stinger hits you, it just can't pierce the armor. The second one is going to go ahead, and with advantage, that is a 13. Just can't pierce the armor. Little imps, they're like-- (snarls) And Utugash is like, "Ugh, hungry carrion wraiths." That brings us to Keyleth.
Marisha: (sighs) Okay. Time to go big. I am going to cast Shapechange, my 9th-level spell, and I am going to turn into a fire giant.
Laura: A fire giant?
Marisha: Yeah! So as I'm down, my eyes light up, and I start to turn into a giant. And I want to reach up and grab him by the throat and try and stand up and see if I can pile-drive him.
Matt: Okay! Go ahead and roll your attack for your fire giant.
Liam: I'm going for a ride.
Laura: Are you attached to him?
Travis: Are you super strong?
Marisha: I am. Is this plus 11 just to my attacks?
Matt: Everyone else gets pushed out of the way. So yes.
Marisha: Natural 20! (cheering)
Marisha: Thanks, Gil!
Laura: That made up for all the rest of the times he fucked us during this game.
Matt: So, Tova and the imps get pushed aside as Keyleth's form suddenly encompasses most of the corner of the room. Natural 20. You grab Utugash by the throat. Grab the torso, lift him up, slam him onto the ground. Go ahead and roll just the basic damage for the fire elemental's attack. It doesn't knock him prone, but this is the flavor for the attack.
Marisha: How do you know what basic damage is?
Matt: Look for the attack for the fire giant.
Marisha: Well, it just gives me multi-attack.
Matt: And underneath that, it says?
Marisha: And it gives me a greatsword melee attack.
Matt: Yeah, just roll the damage for the greatsword. The attack is the flavor of the strike.
Marisha: That is 6d6. That is one, two, three, four. I need one more.
Liam: I'm on this guy's chest, by the way, and he goes down, and it's landing on the ground, I love what you do! (laughter)
Liam: And I want to somersault away.
Marisha: Ten, 16, 24 damage.
Matt: How much did you roll?
Marisha: 24.
Travis: 24.
Matt: 24. That was with the double?
Marisha: Right! So, doubled that, so 48 damage.
Matt: Plus seven.
Marisha: Plus seven, yeah!
Matt: Yeah. So that is 55 points of damage.
Marisha: (grunts)
Laura: Just say it. I want to hear you say it.
Matt: Well, it's not there yet. (groaning)
Matt: Technically your action was to cast the spell, and you wouldn't have the ability to attack in the same round. But I'm letting you do it, because why not. Because it's fun.
Marisha: Well, I didn't move.
Matt: It's fine. (laughter)
Matt: And we'll say you can't move, this turn. But it was fun. It was cool, why not? All right. That ends your turn, Keyleth?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Tova. Grog.
Noelle: All right. Let's just go all out, here. I'm going to cast--
Matt: It's looking really rough, by the way.
Noelle: -- Blood Curse of the Marked, on Utugash. I'm going to amplify it.
Matt: All righty.
Noelle: Four. Four damage for me. And then I'm going to slide in under this fire giant's legs and go for it with my claws and the Crimson Rite.
Matt: All righty, so at half movement, that's five, ten, 15, 20. You can just get into combat range right there. Knocking Vax over and killing him.
All: (chanting) Tova. Tova. Tova.
Noelle: All right, so that's a 28 to hit on one.
Matt: That hits.
Noelle: And that is a 24 to hit on the second.
Matt: That hits.
Laura: That die's so much better.
Noelle: All right, so that is 11. That is a 13. And I get two more, yeah? Matt? With my Crimson Rite?
Matt: With the claws you do 2d8, and these are doubled because you did your mark.
Noelle: Okay.
Matt: So, what did you roll?
Noelle: A seven. Seven for the 2d8. And then, what did I say, 13 and 11 the first time?
Matt: Yes. So, it's 13 and 11 for the actual weapon damage, for the claws. And then now, what did you roll for the first?
Noelle: Seven, together.
Matt: Seven together. So that's 14? How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Matt: Two guests in a row! All right, so how do you want to do that? As you watch, the fire giant, clutching it by the throat and slamming it onto the ground, Utugash is in this sort of wrestling ring encounter in the center of the room.
Noelle: Just going to fucking body slam him with my bear body and going to hit him with both my claws. Going to tear his fucking throat out.
Travis: Yeah! Yeah!
Noelle: And I'm going to look down at him, and I'm going to be like, how do you like me now, asshole?
Matt: So. Keyleth. In the impressive moment of slamming Utugash down, the grip you have on the throat is loosened suddenly as a secondary force pushes Utugash out of your grip. What looks to be a bowling ball of a fur-like bear form goes slamming into the torso of the devil, who then falls onto the back, as the bear just begins Wolverine berserker barraging, tearing through the chest and torso cavity of the devil. Drops the axe, and is trying to reach up and is clawing at your back and tearing through flesh. You can feel the blood, but you're too focused at this point, the frenzy kicking in from your transformation. And as you stare down and say that into his face, Utugash's tongue is lolling back across the tusks and says, "We'll still find you." And just goes limp across the ground.
Noelle: (deep exhale)
Marisha: I stand up, and I look at Grog. And in Giant I say, "'Sup."
Travis: 'Sup, playa?
Marisha: What's up, man?
Travis: Damn, you be talkin' my lingo!
Marisha: Yeah!
Noelle: I'm going to spit on him while I'm still standing. And I'm just going to flop on my back, turn back into a dwarf. Be like, "Hey, you guys want to get a beer?"
Taliesin: Aren't there still two--
Matt: There are two imps in the chamber. But they both turn invisible as soon as this happens. And they're attempting to escape as the flame wall disappears, and you see Taryon bleeding out on the ground. Next to his superheated--
Liam: Oh. I land and Lay on Hands
Matt: Okay. Yeah, you're close enough to do so.
Liam: Okay. I'll give him ten.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Maybe we just toss him in the blood.
Matt: So how much do you give him?
Liam: Ten.
Matt: Ten. So you have ten hit points. And you come to consciousness.
Sam: Oh! I had the craziest dream.
Liam: Slap!
Sam: Oh!
Liam: Are you all right? Are you really all right? Are you having fun?
Sam: Did I kill it? Again?
Liam: Stone-cold dead, you did. Congratulations.
Matt: I will say, Keyleth?
Marisha: Yeah?
Matt: Because technically they were in melee range with you, since you pushed them out of the way, as they vanish you do get one attack of opportunity across them with disadvantage.
Marisha: Ooh! Am I still all fire giant form?
Matt: Yes you are.
Marisha: That's cool. Okay. With disadvantage?
Matt: With disadvantage.
Marisha: On both of them?
Matt: On just one of them.
Marisha: Just one of them?
Matt: Because you only have one reaction.
Marisha: That's eight plus 11, so that's 20--
Laura: 19.
Matt: That still hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: That's plenty.
Marisha: So that's 7d6 plus six. One, two--
Matt: Don't roll damage. Because even if you rolled all ones, it's just enough to kill it, it has 13 hit points. So, as they both vanish, and you hear the flapping of wings, you just do one wide, Hail Mary arc with your fist, and just (whoosh) and (squeaking screech). One imp just gets spattered across the back of your knuckles. But the other you hear (wings flapping) fly off.
Marisha: (very deep voice) I imagine he's going to tell the others. Oh, this Shapechange has so many weird things!
Taliesin: If I have a moment, I'm going to look in all those doors really quickly.
Laura: I'm going to run over to Percy and give him a kiss and say, nice shooting, stud, and I'm going to help him look.
Taliesin: Okay, then I'm going to wait one second, not to look in those doors. But that happens. And then-- Yeah.
Sam: In fear, I stand up and throw my lance at the fire giant. (laughter)
Matt: Roll an attack!
Marisha: That's fantastic!
Sam: That's a 14.
Matt: What's your AC?
Marisha: 18.
Matt: The lance ricochets off your chest.
Sam: Are you seeing this? Are you all seeing this?
Liam: No, that's the Tempest, that's the Tempest, man. That's Kiki, that's Keyleth.
Marisha: Hi, Tary! I'm Antlers!
Sam: Oh! Good day to you, miss. I've misjudged you again.
Marisha: Fist bump.
Sam: No!
Laura: I shout through the window, loot the body! And I keep looking in the things with Percy.
Matt: Okay. As you glance through the various openings, there're a bunch of cells. Some are empty, some contain long-dead, rotting corpses. The first room that you go into contains a fair amount of gold, and it's just stashed--
Taliesin: We pull it.
Matt: This small stash here is about 12,300 gold pieces.
Laura: (sings) Yeah! Putting that in the stash.
Matt: You also find your equipment. You find your maul and your armor.
Laura: 12,300, you said?
Matt: 12,300 gold. So you have that at your disposal now.
Noelle: I go over, and I'm really happy to put my armor back on over my cool bear bikini that I have on. (laughter)
Matt: Your bear-kini.
Taliesin: Your bear-kini.
Marisha: Your bear-kini.
Matt: As you're putting your armor on, you open the far door on this end, and as you do, suddenly bursting through is a lemure. (groans) Comes towards you with its horrible, fleshy mound just reaching out in your direction.
Taliesin: I threaten it down, and say, run. And owe Orthax your freedom. Run!
Matt: Roll an intimidation check.
Taliesin: Okay, can I use Friends to help with that or no, just go for intimidation?
Matt: If you want to.
Taliesin: Yeah, I'll use Friends to add to that intimidation. So, is that advantage?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: All right. That's cocked. That's fine anyway. Intimidation is, ugh, eight.
Marisha: Aww!
Matt: As you say "Run!", and you see the whole-- the lemure goes (curious grunt).
Taliesin: I shoot my gun next to it.
Laura: I shoot an arrow into it.
Matt: It's actually just going to reach out and strike at you. Then the arrow strike comes right after.
Liam: Vax Dagons onto Keyleth's shoulder and watches all this through the window.
Matt: It misses. His hand slaps against the front of your armor and (slurping, groan), and then roll your attack.
Noelle: (laughs) This is a great confrontation!
Laura: 21.
Matt: That hits, go ahead and roll damage.
Liam: This is weird. (laughter)
Liam: Good weird, but it's weird.
Laura: 18.
Matt: The arrow (impact noise) through its head, and it just immediately falls to the ground.
Taliesin: I feel like I'm losing it.
Laura: He should've listened. You were very clear, dear.
Taliesin: What's in the other room? (laughter)
Matt: The rest of the chambers here, you find most of it is a collection of rotting meats. You find various sulfurous chemicals, some that you can't really, by scent and texture, identify.
Taliesin: If there's anything interesting?
Matt: Okay, we'll say that you have a handful of chemicals that you may be able to look into later. Five vials, specifically.
Taliesin: Anything on the body? On the giant? On the pit fiend.
Matt: Utugash? There's the axe that Utugash had, which is this very, very large black, metal heated axe.
Travis: Can I see that, please?
Taliesin: Yes, of course.
Marisha: Can I pick him up by his ankles and schoolyard bully-style shake him out from his feet, upside-down?
Sam: For pocket change?
Marisha: For pocket change.
Matt: Even for your giant strength, you're like (grunts). He's a very rotund pit fiend, and the red scales, leathery blubber as it moves around-- there wasn't much that he was carrying on him. Most pit fiends, or at least devilish creatures of his stature, don't keep his belongings hidden anywhere on himself. They're visible.
Liam: That's a pretty big meatball.
Laura: Some spicy meatball.
Travis: Does the axe do anything when I hold it?
Matt: It's roughly twice the size of any axe you've held and is too large for you to use.
Laura: Aw.
Noelle: Aw.
Travis: I really think that's a matter of perspective?
Sam: Would you like me to identify the object?
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: All right.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Weakly limps over.
Sam: Aye, I'll take a look at it.
Matt: Okay. It's referred to as a Black Iron Axe of Corruption. It's used primarily as a means of intimidating and scaring off lessers, and keeping subordinates in line.
Sam: With magic, or just with size?
Matt: Both. It's a minor enchantment. The enchantment of it, you get the essence as you look at it, the power of it was part of the presence of the pit fiend, it was an inherent ability, so yeah. This is not considered a very powerful magical item. It was only powerful in the hands of a pit fiend.
Travis: I take it. Can I put it in the pool of blood?
Matt: Yeah. (sizzles)
Travis: It dissolved it?
Matt: No, but the heat of it just naturally being in the space, it steams as it goes in.
Travis: That's a deep pool, you guys. Like seriously, drowning warning, okay?
Noelle: So wait, who are you guys again?
Laura: I'm going to pop Trinket out of the necklace and cast Cure Wounds on him.
Noelle: Why are you here?
Travis: Tax collectors.
Taliesin: We were running-- let's just say, we had a grudge and we took care of it.
Noelle: All right, works for me.
Liam: What about you? Where are you from?
Noelle: (sighs) I came here with friends. I don't know if they're still alive, the ones-- well, most of them are dead. I don't know if the other two are still alive, but they're in prison. I've got to rest up. I've got to get back and find them.
Travis: Are they like you?
Noelle: What do you mean, like me?
Travis: I mean like (roars)?
Noelle: Like bears? They're not bears.
Travis: Oh.
Laura: Wait, they're in the prison?
Noelle: Yeah.
Marisha: I Shapechange back to Keyleth for a second. Do you know which section of the prison they're in?
Noelle: (sighs) I guess the same one I was in, yeah? I know roughly. I was in the prison too. Utugash, he bought me. He was going to, I guess corrupt my soul, or whatever, but good luck with that, dude! (laughter)
Laura: Wait, does the Bastion of Flesh sound familiar?
Noelle: Does it?
Matt: You haven't heard the term. You weren't given a lot of information. Most of your presence once you were captured was just being dragged through hallways, tortured, chained up and then eventually purchased and brought here to be perpetually tortured by Utugash until these guys found you.
Noelle: Honestly, I have no idea what's going on still. It's been a hard time in hell. It doesn't sound familiar, but I guess I know where my friends might be. I've got to get back and see if they're still alive, if they're still in there.
Laura: As she's saying this, Trinket goes and grabs some of the rotting meat out of one of those and brings it to her as a present.
Marisha: Aw.
Noelle: I accept it. Thanks, buddy.
Matt: And just gives you a big lick on the side of the face.
Laura: Are you still a bear?
Noelle: I'm a dwarf again.
Matt: No she's a dwarf.
Travis: Oh, are you going to hand it over here now? Thanks.
Noelle: All yours. All yours, pal.
Travis: Is it really rotten?
Matt: It's on par with what you ate before.
Laura: Would you know your way around if you went back to the prison? I mean, do you think you'd know your way through the halls?
Noelle: I think so. I think I'd be able to-- with my bear smell, I think I could find my way back at least to where my friends were. Yeah, I can't leave them in there: if they're still in there, I have no idea, but I came here to help my friend, he made a contract with a devil, and we came here to try and get him out of it.
Laura: Terrible idea.
Taliesin: Always.
Marisha: The worst idea you could ever do.
Sam: Well, we did that, no?
Laura: No, I don't know what you're talking about, Tary.
Sam: Yeah, Percy signed it.
Taliesin: No we didn't.
Noelle: Well, if you were thinking about doing it. Don't. It's a bad idea.
Liam: Since the little ones got away, do we want to turn this into a walk-and-talk?
Laura: Yeah, maybe we should get out of here.
Marisha: Well, okay, hang on. What happens next? Because aren't we supposed to be arrested next?
Travis: Yeah, but we can check out the place until they get here. Can we check the rest of the room first, before we leave?
Matt: Yeah, okay.
Travis: Especially that back wall.
Laura: But being very careful for traps because they are present here.
Travis: Not me, necessarily.
Matt: Oh, so Grog, you're taking point?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Okay. Grog, you enter this chamber, and it opens up into this candelabra area. As you pass this area, I need you to make a dexterity saving throw, Grog.
Travis: Okay. 15.
Matt: 15. You take a few steps and then on one of the stone slabs beneath you, a glyph suddenly brightly shines with a strange, pinkish-orange glow, and then you guys watch as a column of somewhat translucent, ethereal energy shoots up, engulfing Grog.
Laura: What are you fucking doing?
Travis: What?
Matt: You suffer 21 points of psychic damage.
Travis: (yelps) I'm too smart again! (laughter)
Liam: I fly in alongside. You know, all you have to do is ask. Will you hold still and give me ten seconds? And I'll check the rest of the room, just in case.
Taliesin: Ew.
Laura: Ew, what is that?
Matt: This is another one of the boiling blood chambers you saw earlier.
Liam: Okay. I'm just going to check for traps.
Taliesin: I like Crimson Peak as much as the next person, but this is kind of over it.
Liam: 30.
Matt: 30? Okay, as you scan the room, you do notice on the inside of each one of these pillars is another one of the similar platforms to the one that Grog triggered, and the one that he triggered here, there are about two, in width.
Liam: There's spots on the ground?
Matt: Yeah, this whole area here, and this area, and there's one here, and one here, and all these can be triggered.
Liam: All right, just hold on-- stay over there. Do I see anything of value or anything else in the room, besides the traps?
Matt: No, but what you do notice-- Vax, you and Vex, and Keyleth, who have the highest passive perception-- you hear from the ceiling above you, what sounds like multiple entities landing on the roof.
Liam: All right, we've got to am-scray.
Marisha: I think reinforcements are here.
Laura: This is definitely what we talked about.
Marisha: Did I see anything that looked like guards that wore like the armor? The gold armor?
Matt: Not in the interior, no.
Marisha: No, throughout the city.
Matt: From where you are right now?
Marisha: Just in general, since I've been in hell.
Laura: Yeah, of course.
Marisha: What are they?
Matt: You've seen the different types. You've seen a couple that have been imps, you've seen a few that have been winged humanoid entities.
Marisha: Were there any like erinyeses or succubuses that were also guards that would be one of these people?
Matt: You didn't see any of that, specifically.
Taliesin: We're going to be okay. We were expecting this.
Marisha: I know, but I could still be a guard and follow you guys there.
Taliesin: Then what?
Marisha: Then I'm someone on the outside and not in prison as maybe a first responder.
Laura: I don't know.
Travis: I think you're overthinking this.
Taliesin: It's a big prison. I think you're going to be very far away from us very quickly.
Marisha: If I say, hey, I found these guys, and I walk with you guys all the way to the prison?
Matt: A hatch from the ceiling in this chamber in here kicks open and about a dozen entities come dropping in, some winged, others like spined similar bearded devils, some of them wearing the golden armor of the Whisperers you've seen throughout the city. It seems that the guard have been called to the assault on this stronghold.
Laura: I get Trinket back in the necklace really fast.
Matt: Okay. Trinket's in the necklace. What's everyone else doing?
Marisha: Can I stealth? Can I turn into one of the impish creatures in gold armor?
Matt: Sure. Yeah, okay. You turn into an imp.
Marisha: Have they seen me yet?
Matt: You don't create equipment, so you would be an imp. You'd have to put on gold armor.
Marisha: I don't have the gold armor.
Matt: Yeah, so you'd just be an imp.
Marisha: Never mind. I'll just be myself for right now.
Matt: Okay. So, you're remaining as Keyleth's half-elf form. All right! What's everyone else doing?
Sam: I drank a healing draught, and I am getting my lance ready, and I'm staying with fucking Doty.
Liam: In which of these rooms did that trap door open?
Matt: It opened here. Grog was waiting over to the side. Grog, these entities landed near you, they just kinda (rumbles), about a dozen of them just swarm into the chamber near you. Vax, you're over here on the side as you're figuring out the traps in this area in the center. So they have been kind of behind you in this area.
Liam: Okay. I'm going to walk towards Grog. I'm going to join him.
Matt: You join up with Grog here.
Laura: I'm going to cast Cure Wounds on myself really fast.
Matt: Okay, we'll say for the purposes of the swarming of entities in this chamber.
Marisha: Who's all been seen? That's a lot.
Travis: We got Dis.
Noelle: Are we all in there? Who's in there?
Matt: Are you guys all going to join? You're staying with Doty?
Sam: I'm staying.
Matt: All right. Percival.
Sam: I'm going to try to see if I can try to start fixing him.
Matt: Okay. You need workshop materials to do it.
Sam: Okay. Well, then I won't do that.
Taliesin: I'm going to sit with Doty. I'm going to stay in the room. I'm just going to be sitting on Doty, probably. MATT. Okay.
Marisha: Are those bone demony guys?
Matt: Bone demons, an erinyes enters, bearded devils, cambions. A whole swarm comes in here.
Marisha: I'll turn into one of the bone devils.
Matt: A chain devil lands.
Marisha: I'll turn into a bone devil.
Matt: Okay. You turn into bone devil form.
Laura: Why?
Liam: Her game, man.
Matt: At this point, they swarm the room, they have their weapons ready, they see you guys standing there not making an aggressive maneuver. The two bone devils that land within the chamber, they seem to be wearing some sort of a sash that has a torn bottom portion of it and some sort of symbol that is holding it together over their shoulder. Looks around. "Do you resist or do you surrender?"
Travis: I'm taking my cues from you, here.
Laura: (high-pitched) We surrender.
Liam: We surrender, Grog.
Travis: I can't say it. You've got say it.
Liam: I surrender, and he's coming along.
Matt: "I will accept this as universal surrender." Puts his arms up and you watch as a number of these individuals begin pulling heavy chain manacles out from sacks and satchels. Two of them immediately charge up and begin shackling Grog, multiple layers of chain and manacles across your arms and legs. They shackle you up and begin to spread into the next room, coming to the rest of you guys. They charge in and begin just, throat manacle, to arms, to ankles, each with somewhat slack chains and has a specific lead chain attached to the center of the whole ensemble. They go from person to person, they throw them on you, though you angrily give in to it. Keyleth, as you approach, one of them turns to you and goes (speaks Infernal).
Marisha: (speaks fake Infernal)
Matt: Make a deception check.
Marisha: Fucking hell!
Matt: With disadvantage.
Travis: You tried Parseltongue.
Liam: Did you say you want to go to the disco with me?
Marisha: Eight. Total.
Noelle: I'm not a butt.
Matt: Leans in real close to you.
Marisha: I give him a little bit of a twitch, like maybe I'm the damaged bone devil.
Matt: "Liar!" The wings (angry fluttering noise) behind it as it points its finger at you. A bunch of the devils begin to swarm in from the sides with the various polearms and jagged weapons pointed in your direction. "Reveal thyself."
Marisha: Oh god. Okay, I drop form.
Matt: "Shackle her. Twice over!" Of everyone, you and Grog both get the Hannibal Lecter treatment. As you're standing there with your spear out, they all begin to swarm around you. Taryon?
Taliesin: I say, oh no, whatever will we do. We have this enormous piece of equipment that you don't understand and could possibly be very dangerous and probably should be locked up with the rest of us. Oh no.
Matt: They don't seem to be paying any mind. They throw the manacles on you. They subdue you very quickly with a swift hit to the back of your shoulders, your sense of bravado is immediately crumbled. They throw you to the ground and chain you up. You are all then chained together and brought to your feet as one of the bone devils approaches. "You are found in the seeding stages of usurpation of a trusted of Dispater and are sentenced to moral reassignment and delivery. You are forfeit to Mentiri." Grabs the chains, tugs, and you guys all begin to be pulled out and then up through the hatch in this chamber, through multitudes of devilish arms. They are pulling you up through the ceiling.
Laura: This is a good plan! Good plan!
Taliesin: It's actually working better than I expected.
Matt: You glance over your shoulder and watch as a series of devils have now leapt onto Doty and are pulling him apart.
Laura: No! This is the part where C-3PO is being pulled apart.
Sam: He served his purpose.
Laura: No!
Matt: And that's where we're going to take a break.
Liam: He read you bedtime stories.
Travis: Holy shit.
Matt: Be back after a short break here. They're going to show a few ads and then the Signal Boost episode that Marisha just put out. We'll continue our story here in just a few minutes, guys. See you in a moment.
Travis: Aw, Doty, poor bastard! [break]
Matt: Welcome back. Hopefully the audio's better for some folks. Thank you for being patient. We have a winner in the Wyrmwood contest we had in the chat room. AlchemistKiller wins this awesome set of zebra wood dice box, dice tray, and the dice roller. So congratulations to you, buddy. This'll be coming your way soon, signed by the cast of Critical Role.
Laura: Killer!
Matt: Now. Diving back into where we were, folks. You guys are yanked out onto the streets of the Iron City of Dis, pulled off of the roof of Utugash's personal stronghold and yanked across the heated cobblestones, having to keep, through what strength you have, standing, for fear of being dragged across the extremely hot floor. As you are brought through, people begin to gather up on the sides of the street. You begin to see other devils gathering towards the edges, and every ten minutes of walking, when there's a crowd gathered around, some of the devils will go ahead and crack one of you in the back of the knee and give off a showing of ownership and a general sense of cheer emerges with each person that gets smacked in the back of the head or thrust down. Percival, you get, at one point, hit along the side of the jaw and you feel the blood fill the side of your mouth, as you wish you could rub it with your hand, though the way the chains are pulling prevent you from raising your arm too high. You hear the hissing and the occasional rocks being thrown from the distance as you're pulled through. Vex and Vax, go ahead and roll perception checks, please.
Liam: 27.
Laura: 31.
Matt: Okay. Vex, as this is happening and you watch Percival recoil from the impact, you glance with a bit of a sneer towards the crowd and you watch amongst all these various toothy, hissing devils, you see one familiar red-skinned man with long-ish dark hair, horns curled up, and as his eyes meet yours, he gives you a smile. And steps back with the crowd as it closes around him.
Laura: I breathe a little easier.
Matt: Bits of filth are being chucked. Grog, one-- not quite sure what form of refuse this is, but it smears and drips down the side of your face, and gets stuck in your beard. (laughter)
Laura: Gross.
Matt: Make a dexterity check.
Travis: Okay. 17.
Matt: 17. You catch it in your mouth. And it is filthy. You don't even know what it is. You regret the impulse immediately.
Travis: (spits)
Matt: This goes on for about 15 minutes as you guys are pulled through. You watch as nearby Whisperers begin to stop and perch on the edge of buildings to watch. You get the sense that what you guys have done has drawn some attention. As you reach the end of this 15-minute period, you're pulled down a large road and the buildings begin to grow a little thin in this area. You're brought to what looks to be a very, very heavy set of doors, this crimson gate that is humongous: 20 feet by ten feet for each side of the gate, so 40 feet across. It leans at an angle, like a gargantuan cellar door that sits on its own in the center. As you begin to approach, you hear chains suddenly (metal scraping). The doors slowly open with a creaking noise as you're brought towards it. They open, and you can see inside it is lightless, it is dark. The two bone devils tugging further, and with each tug, the chains that connect you all choke and pull you forward. You nearly stumble again as you're brought over the stairway lip and down into this darkened chamber below. You are brought down a seemingly endless set of stairs, the darkness only occasionally broken by the passing faintly red-glowing sconce that passes by as you're brought down. You hear the various mutterings of various Infernal phrases being spoken, chuckled between the devils that speak in your vicinity. You then come to a leveling point. The stairs come to an end, the light opening up in this area; still dim, the reddish glow that occasionally gives you a glimpse of the interior. This, you can only imagine, would be what a prison in hell looks like. The metal and stone walls are warped and misshapen in places; they're almost buckling under the weight of the plane they're holding. You can see what looks to be stone arms that are either carved out of the walls or have been jammed into it as part of the decor. And you see giant metal hooks that occasionally eject out the side, some of them with the remains of some sort of prisoner or meat that has been left to slowly rot. More of those small devilish insects you encountered when you first arrived are gathering and feasting on these remnants. You begin to hear various echoes of screams from some distant place within this labyrinthine series of hallways that have bounced through enough walls to the point that it's this constant ringing gasp, occasionally mixed with this high-pitched whine. This wailing, and this sound of horrible torture. It's very familiar to you, Tova. You have no idea how long you were here before, but it seems endless in hindsight. It could have been days, weeks, months; you don't recall. The air itself is extremely hot, stagnant, and humid with sweat and has that subterranean putrescense to it. The idea that mold and suffering pervade the atmosphere. And, as you're carted through these hallways, you're turned right, left, forward past multiple intersections. More devils pass by. You see another erinyes step by with three other minions to her sides. She hisses as you walk past. You are brought past so many different pathways that it begins to all blend. You're trying to pay attention to remember which way you came, but sometimes the turns almost go so fast, it causes you to lose track of where you originally started. You get the essence that not only this is a massive prison, but it's designed to keep anyone from finding their way back out. You turn one corner as you hear a series of very high-intensity screams that cut through the relative din in the background, and as you turn you see three people: two humans and one male half-elf that are naked and strung up by chains in front of what looks like a large forge. You see there a 12-foot-tall horned devil, his wings folded up over his shoulders, these giant crested horns off the front of his skull. Very Tim Curry Legends-style, who's currently heating this long brand in the forge as he's glaring at them. And as you all walk past, his eyes catch yours and he gives you a nod as he sears it in the body of the half-elf, who begins to quiver and scream against the chains. But he just gives you the rest of the head nod as you pass, cross the door, not seeing them any further.
Sam: I can't do this. I can't go in there.
Matt: You hear, as you leave past the doorway, you hear a voice echo from the chamber you just passed, "I'll see you soon enough."
Laura: Great. Can't wait.
Matt: You're brought down another twisting series of intersecting halls, the smell growing more and more rancid the further in you go. You see three chain devils wander past, these roving jailers dragging broken bodies behind them in manacles similar to yours. You see trails of blood streaking across that are slowly turning dry and thick with caked, drying blood, some bits turning to mist across the hot stonework of the interior of the prison. A twitch of one of the legs reveals that these bodies are still living, though by but an inch of their life. A few errant chains that drift and drag behind them creepily caress the arm and face of Taryon as you pass, just across your cheek. One of them scratches you with a hook at the tip.
Laura: You fall unconscious.
Sam: As we're walking, I'm going to whisper to Percy. Are they going to take all our stuff?
Taliesin: It's going to be fine.
Sam: I can't do anything without my stuff.
Taliesin: We're going to be fine.
Matt: Your weapons have been gathered and they have been taken from you.
Sam: Everything? Armor? Helmets?
Matt: You have your armor on you, still. Your helmet is not currently on you, that's been taken off. But your weapons have been taken from you because you can't hold your weapons in your chains.
Laura: That's a break of contract.
Taliesin: Not yet.
Laura: All right.
Matt: So, further still, you're finally brought within this 30 foot by 20 foot room, bisected by a series of thick metal bars that open into a cell. A single, towering chain devil sits within, larger than any you've encountered. The broad shoulders are almost as wide as Grog's, and the head is so deeply set within the neck that it almost gives a profile from shoulder to shoulder of a square. And it cross-- Nice.
Laura: Nope.
Taliesin: Nope.
Marisha: Fuck this asshole.
Matt: The chains all begin to slacken as you enter and the arms reach out almost in a graceful invitation. You hear his horrible voice slither out from the mask of black metal that covers everything but his deep, red, burning, beady eyes. "Good. String them up." As the devil entourage that has pulled you through this prison brings you into the cell one by one, they take your manacles and latch them onto a thick, heavy, metal chain. As they pull, it pulls your arms up over your body and your leg manacles are attached to similar rings on the ground. One by one, you are all placed within this chamber, chained up, helpless.
Sam: This is the worst.
Matt: All the rest of the devils that brought you in here exit the cell and leave through the hallway, leaving the chain devil to do his duty. He approaches the bars as he closes the entranceway to the cell, so he's on the other side of the cell from all of you. You're just strung up in there and he's pressed up against the bars from the other side, his hands clutching as he stares across you, his eyes slowly scanning. As he moves his hands down the bars, the chains go limp and unfurl around parts of his arms and begin to snake and slither across the ground, a dozen of them or so slowly creeping like tendrils of living entities towards all of you as he says, "You seem weary. Let's loosen your load." As the chains begin to snake their way up each of your bodies, Grog, you feel one come up your torso and under the gauntlets and begin to loosen the gauntlets on your arm underneath. Vex, you feel as one curls up, spirals around your leg and finds its way under your armor, and eventually finds the buckles in the back and begins to undo them. All of you find the chains are all beginning to move--
Laura: I saw this movie! (laughter)
Matt: Beginning to infiltrate and remove the various bits of equipment you all came into this area on. A voice rings out from across the chamber in the darkness. It goes, "Krix! You are needed by Overseer Shushot for prisoner enumeration and status!" At which point, the chains stop and the chain devil releases his fingers, tense against the bars. The chains begin to slack and pull back from your bodies and retract back into the chamber. You now see behind him, stepping in, a small green devil with long, knifelike ears, a series of long spines across his body, similar, though a thicker version, of the merchant that you saw earlier on your journey here, this one carrying the same sash that the bone devils that originally arrived had adorned on their chest. It does actually carry a satchel on one side. As the jailer pulls the chains back to his body, he snarls and turns back to this barbed devil, who winces and recoils as soon as the chain devil turns, already taking a submissive stance after making his announcement in the chamber. The chain devil, "I do despise such droll work." Turns back to all the rest of you, "I will return, lovelies." The chains retract back into his body and he walks out of the chamber past the barbed devil, shoulder-checking it on the way through, slips to the side. As it leaves, you're all still there, chained up. The green devil waits, rubbing its shoulder. Comes forward, sheepishly, looking at all of you in silence, breathing heavily, rubbing its chin. Takes its satchel, and you can see it has this hefty satchel on the side that's filled with a series of side pockets and small openings, and it begins to pry them open and it begins to produce each one of your weapons, and is pulling them out quickly and throwing them into a pile on the outside of the bars. Pulls out your packs. The various things that were taken from you have all been put within this satchel and is quickly throwing them into a pile on the other side of the bars from all of you. Throws them all onto the ground. Finishes in this big mass. "There. Unspoiled. Unharmed. Now, to guide you." And the creature walks up to the bars, and clutches the sides staring at you. "You seek Hotis, yes?"
Liam: Yes.
Matt: "He is under the ceiling of Iskath, though Iskath is not in Mentiri this day. You must leave this room, turn right, left, straight, straight, left, straight, then right. The iron door with the fanged grin bears the mark. There lies your quarry. Now! My debt is paid! Goodbye." And the devil turns around and begins to run out of the chamber.
Laura: Oh shit I missed the last thing that he said. I got all the directions, but I didn't hear the very last thing that he said.
Liam: Door with a grin.
Laura: Door with a grin?
Matt: Door with a fanged grin.
Liam: Right, left, straight, straight, left, straight, right.
Laura: Wait I got right, left, straight, straight, left, straight, right.
Travis: That's what I've got, too.
Marisha: Right, left, yeah, right, left, straight, straight, right, left, straight?
Laura: No.
Laura: No.
Laura: Right, left, straight, straight, left, straight, right.
Marisha: Right.
Matt: We'll find out. We'll find out who got the right one. But the devil just leaves.
Laura: And we're still strung up?
Liam: And we're still strung up?
Matt: You're all still strung up.
Sam: I didn't get my phone call!
Liam: I'm going to start doing something.
Laura: I want to try to lockpick, too.
Matt: Your lockpick was taken with your equipment-- unless you were hiding one, you would have to specify.
Laura: Not the one in my mouth. Okay, how about this. I'm going to pop Trinket out of the necklace--
Sam: Oh, wait, do we have the necklace?
Taliesin: They wouldn't have taken it.
Matt: The necklace was not taken off you. It was just your satchels, equipment, and your armor.
Laura: I grab the necklace and I go, Trinket, get out.
Matt: Trinket emerges. (sneezes)
All: Bless you!
Matt: Thank you.
Travis: Allergic to hell.
Laura: Trinket! Get us out of here! Hey, okay, here's the thing. Can you go over and get anything out from between those two bars, on the outside of the room?
Matt: Trinket goes over to the edge of the bars and leans into them and is marking a claw across the ground and it's about a good foot away from the equipment and you can see that smoke begin to rise
Laura: Did you get that?!
Liam: Yes! Dead for a ducat, it's dead! (cheering)
Matt: Five experience to Sam Riegel.
Travis: (laughs) Five experience.
Matt: You can see that the fur is beginning to send off smoke smoke and burn against the bars as he's leaning against them.
Laura: Okay, back away. Maybe you can try and just break through these manacles. Can you do that?
Matt: Reaches up and grabs the one around your ankle and tugs, and you see it begin to singe the outside of his tongue. And he's pulling. Make a strength check.
Laura: Okay. Okay. Okay. 17?
Matt: 17. The chain on one of your ankles begins to bend. It's not quite-- doesn't fully break. But you can see that it's getting some headway.
Laura: I want to pull my leg at the same time and see if I can help him out at all.
Matt: Make a strength check as well.
Laura: Should've had him do this to Grog. Okay. (laughs) I suck at strength checks. Okay. 15.
Matt: 15? Okay. Between both Trinket and you pulling, you do manage to get one of the chains to (snapping sound), and you get one ankle free.
Laura: Great, I have an ankle free. Hey, guys! Guess what? My ankle's free.
Noelle: Lucky.
Laura: I am really flexible. This does nothing.
Liam: Can you Druidcraft into my hand? Can you give me a thorn, something long and thin?
Laura: Yeah, Keyleth, what can you do?
Marisha: I mean, I could probably also Beast Shape out of this if I really wanted to.
Laura: What the fuck, Keyleth?
Liam: Do you really want to?
Marisha: Well, you know, I was kinda waiting to see what everybody else did.
Travis: Less talking, more doing.
Taliesin: Less talking, more doing.
Marisha: Okay. And I Beast Shape into a rat.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Can you do that to all of us?
Marisha: Technically, yeah. And then I shape back to Keyleth.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: She's amazing. Every time. Every time.
Marisha: And then keys. Keys, right there on the other side or something? Keys?
Matt: They're about maybe three and a half feet from the edge of the bars.
Marisha: I'm going to do a Thorn Whip. Thorn Whip them to me.
Matt: To your equipment, you mean?
Marisha: Wait.
Matt: Sorry. There's no keys to the door.
Marisha: Oh, sorry.
Matt: No, there's just a pile of--
Liam: Get my lockpicks.
Laura: Yeah, just get the lockpicks.
Marisha: Which are in the satchel on the other side of the bags, right?
Matt: So you Thorn Whip that over. You catch it. You rummage through the pouch that he usually keeps his equipment in. You find the lockpicks that Vax usually uses.
Marisha: I got it!
Liam: Okay, bring it over here, love.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: Do you have any extra? You can pass them to me and I can maybe help.
Liam: Already doing it while she's--
Marisha: Are there any other extra lockpicks in here?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Liam: Am I at disadvantage or anything because I'm--
Matt: You are, because you're strung up.
Marisha: Investigation check?
Liam: 27.
Marisha: Natural one.
Matt: You're rummaging through the bag, trying to find it, you're like, I know it's in here somewhere!
Marisha: Honey, you're a hoarder. We really need to clean out your purse.
Laura: Just fucking let me out of this.
Liam: Yeah, I start with my sister.
Matt: Yeah, you eventually get both of your arms and ankles undone, you go up to your sister. She's still looking through the pouch. Roll for Vax-- for Vex.
Travis: Can I try and just muscle out this bitch, since I'm still wearing my Gauntlets?
Matt: Make a strength check.
Liam: 27 again.
Matt: You get her wrists undone.
Liam: All right. I'll just hit the whole group, then.
Travis: 24.
Marisha: I really can't find any--
Matt: Grog just pulls his manacles off the ceiling. The chain (snapping sound). You break them off your wrists.
Laura: I want to go over and start trying to do the lockpick. Oh, actually, I don't have any lockpicks on me, still, do I?
Matt: No. It's across the way.
Liam: I hand her a spare.
Laura: Yeah, thanks. He gives me a spare and I start trying to work on the door while he's doing the others.
Matt: Okay, so you go over and grab a spare from her pouch. You guys begin-- we'll say over the next five minutes or so-- getting everyone undone at this point. You pull-- you have the chains still dangling from your wrists, the manacles still attached to your Titanstone Gauntlets, but you're free.
Travis: I kinda maybe wrap them around, just for a little super there.
Matt: Hell chains.
Travis: Hell chains.
Liam: As I get Tary out. We're going to be fine, this is going to be fine.
Sam: We're in jail.
Liam: I can see you shaking. It's going to be all right. You're with us.
Sam: I have no Doty. Who will record my exploits down here? Why am I here if not to record my adventures?
Travis: You want me to write some stuff down for you?
Sam: No. You're an idiot-- I mean, no thank you, Grog. I lash out when I'm nervous and I don't have my belongings.
Liam: Do you know what to do with a knife?
Sam: Of course. You cut your food before you eat it.
Liam: Okay. You also stick the sharp end of it into things. And I take out the Flametongue, and I stick it in-- this is a loaner. I'll get it back from you when we're done here.
Sam: I take out my rod and make it a dagger and set it on fire.
Liam: Oh, you have that.
Sam: Yes.
Matt: Well, you haven't picked up your equipment yet.
Sam: Oh, I don't. I don't? Where is it?
Taliesin: It's on the other side of the bars.
Matt: You're going to try and pick the bars that lead into the next chamber?
Laura: Out the doors, so I can get our shit.
Matt: Okay, so go for it.
Laura: What do I add to it?
Matt: Add your proficiency bonus and your dexterity.
Sam: Everything's outside? Shit. I need that shit.
Laura: 27?
Matt: 27? You get partway into it, and you feel it's moving but it's a very, very difficult lock.
Laura: Jesus.
Travis: Can I try mine?
Laura: Wait, not yet. It's quieter to do this.
Liam: I rest my chin on her shoulder.
Laura: Just, come over, and--
Liam: Is it a sticky one?
Laura: Yeah, it's really, really tough. I could have done the chains on all of us, and you could have done this, but whatever.
Liam: All right. Rather than do it, I just grab a hold of her elbow and I shift her to the side and feel through her bones into the lock and--
Matt: Go for a roll.
Sam: Through her bones?
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: You're going through my bones.
Liam: Yeah, man.
Sam: Tova, can't you just curse the lock?
Liam: 27.
Laura: Twins.
Matt: 27 again? You do so and the lock pick kind of breaks off inside.
Liam: Oh, it broke!
Travis: Would anybody care if I try mine?
Laura: Now you've got to.
Taliesin: As long as we're free already--
Liam: Could you "pick the lock," Grog?
Marisha: Wait, who's stuck?
Travis: Kame--
Laura: But quiet.
Travis: -- hame--
Laura: Try to do it quietly. Just quiet. Just quiet.
Travis: -- what do you mean, quiet? I can't hold it, it's so powerful, oh! (yells) (laughter)
Matt: Go ahead and roll an attack.
Laura: Motherfucking door.
Marisha: Fucking doors! It's always doors!
Taliesin: Am I still chained down, by the way?
Liam: No!
Laura: No, no, no! He's been doing everybody.
Taliesin: All right, that's fine.
Travis: I guess it's not a-- what would I add, my strength?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: I'm just rubbing my wrists.
Travis: 26, so, 52?
Matt: It's your strength modifier.
Travis: Which is eight, and I rolled a 18.
Matt: Right. That's 18 to see if you hit, so go ahead and roll damage. For the purposes of this roll, roll 1d4 and add your strength modifier.
Travis: 1d4.
Laura: That's a six, that's a 1d6. Hey! Great!
Travis: Strength modifier, that's ten!
Matt: Ten. Double that, because Siege, so it's 20.
Travis: 20.
Matt: So, with your one-fist punch, between the damage you had done to the lock by messing with it, and the impact of your fist, the lock shatters, and the door squeaks open.
Travis: You loosened it for me. Nice job.
Laura: I reach through and try to grab everything in, pass it out.
Matt: You pull the equipment in, you get your rod, you get everything situated.
Laura: Okay. I cast--
Taliesin: Have we technically had a short rest since we were basically just manacled walking for a while?
Matt: Nope!
Taliesin: Okay, just checking.
Laura: I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.
Travis: Ooh, good call--
Marisha: Do we want to take a short rest while we're supposedly--
Travis: Nope!
Laura: Nope!
Taliesin: Nope, nope, let's just--
Marisha: All right, let's go.
Laura: I think it would be best if maybe we, I mean, I don't know how well we can stealth around here, if we should maybe turn into insects and just crawl around here.
Marisha: I can do that to us.
Laura: I think we should do that.
Marisha: Is everyone cool with that?
Laura: But I've definitely got a Pass Without a Trace still on us.
Taliesin: Can we still Plane Shift later?
Marisha: I can still Plane Shift us, so I can burn one of my higher-level spells-- like an eight on the scale of zero to nine-- and be animals, and then I can save my seventh-level for Plane Shift in case of emergency.
Taliesin: Okay.
Laura: Solid. Copy on that.
Travis: Wait a minute, but doesn't the floor burn? Are we going to flip out of that shape real fast?
Noelle: The floor does burn.
Laura: But maybe those little insects are immune to the fire since they live here.
Travis: But we're animals though, we're not insects. We're animals.
Laura: Wait, we can't be those little--
Travis: No.
Liam: Can't we fly? Can't we be flying?
Marisha: Can I not do that with Animal Shapes? I can't turn into the insects?
Matt: Animal Shapes? You can only do beasts.
Travis: Yeah, I remember we had this conversation before.
Sam: Well, why don't we be pigeons that can fucking fly?
Matt: And the creatures that you saw, the insects here, are technically very, very small fiends.
Marisha: Hm.
Laura: Oh, really?
Liam: But we could be hornets, or flies?
Marisha: Have I seen anything, like flies or rats or anything like that?
Travis: Not insects.
Laura: Not insects.
Matt: You've seen rats, but they don't do well here because of the heat.
Liam: There's flies all over this shit.
Laura: Maybe hummingbirds, something, the teensiest bird you can think of.
Liam: We're not in the woods though. Flies.
Marisha: Hang on, I've seen rats, and I've seen what? Have I seen any--
Laura: We can't be insects, we can only be animals.
Marisha: I've got to be beasts.
Laura: Yeah, so teeny teeny teeny, like, finches or hummingbirds.
Marisha: Are there anything like bats? Have I ever seen any bats?
Laura: Ooh, bats, down here?
Matt: You've seen bats before, you haven't seen bats that reside in this domain.
Laura: Whatever, as long as we're flying, maybe we can be stealthy. We'll be stealhty bats.
Travis: What happens if we hit a door on this right-left-straight-straight-left-straight-right?
Sam: Let's just walk.
Marisha: I mean, technically, with Animal Shapes, I can change us with an action. Correct?
Matt: That's true. I think so, yeah.
Laura: So we can just shift in and out whenever we want? With an action?
Marisha: Yeah, as long as we don't get caught.
Travis: I don't mind starting out that way.
Liam: All right.
Laura: Okay, I think getting-- yeah, we should, it's easier to not get caught. And then we'll stealth as bats.
Taliesin: Stealthy bats.
Marisha: All right. So we're starting as bats. Bats?
Laura: Sure.
Travis: What do our bats sound like?
Liam: "Where is Harvey Dent?" (high-pitched squealing)
Matt: Okay. This is concentration, so this will get rid of your Shapechange.
Marisha: Correct. So as long as we're cool with me losing my ninth-level Shapechange. I can't escort us as an erinyes anymore.
Sam: I think we should just walk, but if you want to do this, you can.
Travis: Ooh, wait! Well--
Laura: I think we'll just-- there's a lot of demons around here. Devils.
Marisha: How much longer is my Shapechange left? It lasts for an hour.
Travis: You don't speak that shit, is the problem.
Matt: You're not quite certain, but it's pushing close to an hour.
Laura: Yeah, you don't speak the shit, so even if you have it--
Marisha: I don't speak the shit. So, bats!
Laura: Stealthy bats. We fly close to the ceiling and be as quiet as possible.
Noelle: I don't care for this.
Travis: I know it's not a bear, but at least they both start with a... D.
Noelle: Bears, bats--
Matt: All of you guys turn into bats, flapping.
Marisha: Wait, I can technically make some of us bats and some of us other things, correct? I can choose.
Matt: Yup.
Marisha: Does anyone not want to be a bat for any particular reason?
Laura: I'm solid with the bat, but I'm going to lead the way since I'm good with directions.
Sam: Since bats can't see, maybe we should--
Taliesin: They can see!
Travis: Take off, I'll follow you.
Matt: Essentially, you get--
Marisha: Sonar.
Laura: Oh, but we can still see where we're going.
Matt: Yeah. The equivalent of Darkvision. You know where you're going.
Marisha: Echolocation.
Laura: Is it echolocation only?
Taliesin: No, they have both. I mean, biologically, they have both.
Marisha: We have Darkvision.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: I'm following Vex out.
Taliesin: Yup.
Marisha: Bats go in swarms. We're all bats.
Matt: All right, so a bat swarm suddenly emerges into the hallway, which immediately turns right and left. Which direction do you go?
Laura: Right.
Matt: Okay, you turn right, and as you guys rush into the corner, you watch as the chain devil that originally arrived in the first chamber--
Laura: Flying close to the ceiling, stealthy.
Sam: Stealthy.
Matt: Right. It's about 15 feet up to the ceiling, and you guys come up. The chain devil walks beneath, and as you guys arc past him, he kind of stops and looks over and watches you all go past him and he keeps walking, looking very confused.
Liam: Fly with purpose, fly with purpose.
Laura: Okay. Fly with purpose, fly with purpose.
Matt: All right. So you guys continue.
Laura: As soon as we get to a thing, we turn left.
Matt: Yes. So you go forward for about 60, 70 feet or so. You see a couple of small imps also fly past, and you guys kind of dart around, and they all look curiously at these bats that are swarming past them.
Marisha: This is the best.
Laura: At least they're letting us go right now.
Taliesin: Everything's fine.
Matt: You come to a T intersection now.
Laura: Left. Oh!
Travis: Straight.
Liam: Straight.
Sam: Wait, do we go right? What?
Laura: Wait, no, we haven't gone left yet.
Liam: We didn't take a left yet?
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: I thought we were taking it.
Matt: You turned right.
Laura: Yes, and now we're going to turn left.
Matt: And then you turn left. All right. You all shift, following Vex's pathway, left. And as you go forward in that direction, you watch as another chain devil and two barbed devils, similar to the one that came in there and brought your equipment, are patrolling down the hall. As you guys are approaching, I want everyone to roll a stealth check.
Liam: Yeah. Plus ten.
Laura: Plus ten!
Marisha: Plus ten.
Laura: I'm going to say Trinket's back in the necklace, by the way.
Matt: I assumed.
Laura: Okay.
Noelle: So that plus ten for them, that was their Feast?
Laura: No, that was me, I did that.
Travis: Pass Without a Trace.
Matt: Spell she cast she cast on everybody, so everyone gets plus ten dice.
Noelle: Oh, okay! Cool! Cool.
Sam: 17.
Taliesin: 35.
Marisha: 26.
Liam: 37.
Noelle: 15.
Laura: 34.
Travis: 25.
Matt: Okay. As you guys (fluttering noises) past, the barbed devils just keep walking forward. The chain devil stops and turns and looks over and sees you all.
Laura: Just keep flying!
Matt: And turns and starts walking in your direction as you guys keep flying. You come to a gate that is closed.
Taliesin: A gate!
Liam: Solid, or bars?
Matt: It's solid, there is a small opening with some bars that are about that far apart each.
Laura: Let's go through them.
Taliesin: We can go through.
Matt: You guys as bats press through the gate, just as--
Laura: Avoiding the bars! Avoiding the bars.
Matt: -- just as the chain devil runs up to try and grab at you as you guys charge through, his arms catching the gate, and you hear him start yelling, and suddenly you start hearing in the distance, behind where you were, sounds like rapid footprints, footfalls. Apparently, people are now aware that you have escaped your cell.
Laura: Fuck, fuck, fuck.
Noelle: Fuck.
Sam: I'm Batman.
Matt: So. You guys continue rushing forward.
Marisha: We can always be rats whenever the time is necessary!
Travis: No, no, we'll burn out of it. We'll burn out of it.
Laura: Let's just keep going.
Marisha: Keep going.
Matt: You guys come to another T section.
Laura: Straight!
Matt: You go straight on this one? All right. You go straight past. Beneath you, you can see there's another one of those blood pools that was in Utugash's chamber, and there are a couple of grates on each side. You can see the grates are corroded with the quick glances as you go past. As you continue straight forward, you hear more screams from the right and left side, the two hallways that you pass, just kind of (screaming) echoing past, and you just keep pushing forward as best as you can. You hear the gate in the distance open, so now you know, whoever was giving chase, they're now starting to pick up behind you. You come up to what looks to be a right and left.
Sam: Wait, what?
Laura: Wait, only a right and left? But we have two straights in a row!
Sam: We go straight!
Liam: Yeah. Is there any hidden door here? Search for a hidden door.
Sam: We go straight into the wall!
Liam: I'm searching for a door, as a bat.
Taliesin: Straight, in the door, keep going straight.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Marisha: Come on, come on! Come on!
Laura: Keep going straight.
Liam: 18.
Matt: 18? You briefly glance forward as you guys sit here for a second, and you begin to hear the distant sound of various Infernal yells getting louder and louder. Something about the wall right in front of you doesn't look right.
Laura: Keep going straight!
Liam: I start battering into the door.
Laura: Can we batter into it, or can we just fly straight through?
Matt: Vax just passes straight through. It's an illusory wall. (yelling)
Matt: As you guys (flapping noise) into this next chamber--
Liam: Everybody's doing something different.
Matt: Yeah.
Noelle: It's like, 'fuck, okay'.
Matt: Tova's so confused--
Noelle: This has been a weird day.
Liam: Aren't you glad you're playing with us?
Laura: Tary's got wings coming out of his head.
Matt: As you guys are flying, in this new chamber it is pitch black. Thankfully, your vision allows you as best to see. Tova, you start having the recurring memory of the fact that you're not sure where they're going, where they're taking you, but you still have people in this prison.
Noelle: Yeah. Am I looking out? Do I recognize anything that we're passing?
Matt: You have no idea where they are and you have no idea where you are currently.
Noelle: Can I use my heightened senses to do a perception check and see if I can smell anything?
Matt: You would if you weren't a bat.
Noelle: I mean, there's nothing in the rule book that says bats can't have heightened senses.
Marisha: Hang on. Well, technically, what do bats have?
Travis: Not a great sense of smell. That's for sure.
Noelle: I don't need to be a bear to do that. It says that's just part of my class.
Matt: I know, I know. When you're in your normal form you would.
Sam: As bats--
Matt: As bats however, it's a little more rough. Let me check real fast just to be safe.
Noelle: Can I use my sonar?
Marisha: 5e bats--
Matt: Here we go.
Taliesin: Nothing quite like googling '5e bats'.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Bats--
Matt: Let's say swarm of bats. That's basically what you guys are all together.
Marisha: That's true. We are a swarm of bats.
Matt: Now, you have echolocation so you can, you know--
Liam: Oh man, put us in a Strahd campaign.
Matt: You have keen hearing but that's not going to help you tremendously in this circumstance. So yeah, there is a sinking feeling that right now, either you-- going with them, you might leave your friends behind. Just be aware. As you guys push forward into this dark chamber, it continues forward and then dips down into a series of stairs. Takes you to a secondary level below. As you guys follow this down for about 45 feet, it evens out again and opens up into another T-intersection.
Laura: Left!
Travis: Left!
Matt: All right. You guys go ahead and turn left. As you turn, right around the corner, there waiting, you see there is a single bone devil and three flying spined devils. These deep blue, dark green, imp-like devils with these giant spined wings and these long quills sticking out of their body as they carry these spears. And you all almost-- you encounter each other at once. The spined devils are up in your area and as you kind of flutter past there's no way they didn't see you.
Laura: Chaos. Chaos.
Marisha: (bat squeaks)
Liam: Drop some guano.
Laura: Yeah, I poop.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: 'I poop'.
Taliesin: Smells better than the prison.
Liam: Guano, guano, guano.
Matt: As this is happening, the bone devil stops and turns and the spine devils that get caught up in the area, two of them are going to instinctively swing at you guys as you move past.
Laura: Oh god.
Matt: That is going to be-- there's the spined devil here. That is an eight.
Sam: Oh wow.
Taliesin: Oh.
Sam: That might actually miss.
Matt: I think it does, actually. The worst possible-- A bat has an AC of 12.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Sam: Guys, we have one hit point, by the way.
Taliesin: Oh yeah.
Laura: Oh.
Marisha: Those bats were jus-- I made no promises other than bats.
Travis: One hit point?
Matt: One hit point, each of you. The other one is going to swing. Same roll! Two sixes in a row. (cheering)
Matt: Eight. Eight. That is-- aw, man.
Travis: 'Aw, man!'
Liam: Matt turned 12! Matt turned 12!
Matt: So both of them miss as you guys continue pushing forward past these--
Marisha: Go, go, go!
Matt: However, the full speed of a bat, if I remember--
Sam: 30 feet.
Matt: Is it 30-foot speed?
Sam: It's a 30-foot fly speed.
Marisha: And we're definitely doubling our movement here.
Taliesin: And we're doubling movement.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Correct.
Liam: We're dashing.
Marisha: And we're dashing
Matt: The spine devils are a little faster than you guys.
Sam: Ooh.
Matt: And they're gaining on you. As you move past, they get their attack swings but you guys do double dash so they're behind you. And now they're all starting to slowly gain. As they're pushing forward and pushing forward, you come to another T-intersection.
Laura: Straight!
Matt: You go straight, okay. As you go straight forward, it kind of curves a little bit to the right and then continues forward. The spine devils are just starting to catch up to you guys and two of them go ahead and-- Let's see what attacks they have here.
Noelle: Are we passing any cells?
Matt: They're both going to fire tail spines at you. Their tail curves up behind and swings. And they fire these spines forward.
Laura: Fly zig zag! Fly zig zag!
Sam: Serpentine.
Matt: There's three of them so one of them's going to be at Grog, one's going to be at Vax and one's going to be at Percy. Against Grog, that is a two plus four. These guys can't hit anything. Six. Just zooms past you. One towards Vax. That's cocked. Natural 20. (groaning)
Matt: And against you, Percy. That is a 19 plus two, so both of you guys get hit.
Laura: Fuck.
Matt: Even basic damage, both of your bat forms (boof) and you both fall about ten feet.
Liam: Is it an attack roll or--
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah, they both hit-- spines hit you. You both take--
Liam: But if it's under my AC?
Laura: No, it's a bat's AC.
Travis: You're a bat.
Liam: Oh we're a bat-- bat's AC.
Marisha: Bat AC.
Matt: Bat's AC, which is 12.
Liam: Thanks.
Matt: So that's six-- So you take five points of damage, Vax, to your main form, and Percival, you take four points of damage to your main form. Oh, plus one point of fire damage and two points of fire damage.
Liam: My armor is set to fire, so do I take one anyway?
Matt: You still take one.
Liam: Okay.
Taliesin: Okay, yeah. Just the two of us.
Matt: All right, so the rest of you are bats. Both of you plummet, hit the ground, and the spine devils approach.
Taliesin: Attempt to acrobat roll, so that I'm up and rolling?
Sam: Oh boy. Here we go.
Laura: Oh dear lord.
Matt: So now, we have Vax and--
Marisha: We did pretty good, you guys. We got pretty far.
Laura: Yeah, we did get pretty far.
Taliesin: We did a lot. We did well.
Matt: Vax and Percival are back this way, I'm going to say that these guys represent you as bats. We'll say that Taryon is one, Keyleth is two, Tova is three, Vex is four, and Grog is five. All right. So, we'll use these for spine devils for now. Well actually they're pretty small, so we'll use these. So these are the spine devils right here, and you see a bone devil coming up in the distance. So I need everyone to roll initiative.
Travis: Yeah! Don't fuck me, Gil! That's it, go!
Liam: Terrible. Terrible.
Marisha: All right. Not great.
Matt: All right. So, that brings us to-- 25 to 20.
Taliesin: 30.
Noelle: 25.
Laura: Wow.
Matt: Jesus, Percival.
Travis: 20.
Matt: So, 30, 20.
Travis: Tova had--
Noelle: 25.
Matt: 25, nice.
Taliesin: Are we making noise now? Do we care?
Noelle: No, that was bad math. 23.
Matt: Okay, still good.
Marisha: I don't know. If we can get in and out of this quick and keep going--
Matt: 20 to 15?
Marisha: -- because I can keep turning us into these.
Matt: All right, 15 to ten.
Travis: 15 to ten.
Marisha: 11. As long as I don't lose concentration I can keep turning us into different things.
Taliesin: Including the two of us, even though we hit one?
Marisha: Correct.
Taliesin: Good to know.
Matt: All right. Ten to five.
Liam: Big seven.
Laura: Eight.
Marisha: It's a concentration of up to 24 hours, so as long as I don't use a concentration--
Travis: What are you, Tary?
Sam: Four.
Laura: Oh!
Matt: Nice.
Travis: Oh, shit.
Marisha: On a subsequent turn, I can use my action to transform affected creatures into new forms.
Matt: So. Now in these forms, if it looks like it--
Sam: We do get an attack.
Matt: You do, but you attack as a bat.
Sam: Yeah.
Travis: Rabies.
Laura: Can Keyleth just--
Sam: And a hit is one point of piercing damage.
Laura: Wait, what was your initiative order? What was your number?
Marisha: 11.
Laura: Fuck.
Marisha: Not great.
Noelle: We're stuck as bats until she lets us out?
Matt: Yup.
Laura: As long as you just stay out of the way and don't break your concentration, you can keep turning us in and out?
Marisha: Correct.
Laura: Okay. Don't get hit.
Marisha: So that's probably exactly what I'm going to do, is to try and not get hit, by the by.
Matt: Percival. You just plummeted to the ground. Actually, both you and Vax from the fall, since you were 15 feet up, you both took two points of bludgeoning damage, and five points of bludgeoning damage, Vax.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm going to take my six paces towards the lava pit, and then--
Travis: Is it a blood pit or a lava pit?
Matt: It's a blood pit.
Taliesin: -- blood pit, and then I'm going to hold my attack until Vax does what he's going to do.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm loud.
Liam: Yeah. And I'm weak.
Matt: All right, that ends Percy's turn. Tova.
Noelle: So, can I go from a bat to a bear?
Liam: Bat-bear! Were-bat-bear! Batman.
Sam: There, bat-bear.
Laura: Tricky, tricky.
Liam: Bear-man. Man-bear.
Matt: The magic keeps you--
Marisha: "Choose any number of willing creatures that you can see within range, you transform each target into the form of a large or smaller beast."
Matt: Technically, you are not a dwarf. You are not a Blood Hunter. You lost the abilities of your class while you are currently a bat, so currently you just have bat capabilities. You could move and then hold your action if you were to change forms. It's up to you. Kind of what Percy did.
Taliesin: Get in position and then wait.
Noelle: I'm going to fly over with my dudes and hang out and hold my action.
Matt: All right, so you'll hang there. All right. Grog.
Travis: I'm just following Vex.
Matt: Okay, so you'll just kind of stay over in this area.
Travis: I'm real good with directions but, let's be honest.
Matt: All right. So these three spine devils who just hit the other-- This one here is going to rush over to this side, is going to fire, this is going to be at Tova. It's going to fire its tail spine. That is an eight. I keep rolling sixes to hit. Misses, no effect. These two other spine devils here are going to-- There we go, they're going to come forward and do a multi-attack on Vax. Both of them are just going to pincer up this way. One with its bite, and one with its fork. Actually, technically it gets to use two tail spines. It's going to make a second strike at you, Tova. That is an 11, misses still.
Noelle: Yup. I mean, unless my--
Sam: Unhittable bats.
Noelle: Unless my bat stats are-- bad.
Matt: Bat AC is 12, so you're actually like (whoosh), you dodge out of the way.
Noelle: Oh, okay.
Matt: And that is a seven, and a 21. 21 hit you?
Liam: No. Nope. Oh, it just hits me.
Matt: It just? That's what I thought. So you take five points of piercing damage.
Liam: Can I Uncanny Dodge?
Matt: All right, you take two points of piercing damage.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: The other one is going to attack you again twice as well. That's a four and an 11. Nope.
Liam: Yeah, eat it.
Matt: Ending their turn now. The bone devil is going to catch up, flies in, its wings expanding forward, it's going to go ahead and make three attacks against you, Vax, since you're the closest one to it. That is ten, 20, and 20.
Liam: No.
Matt: Two twelves in a row. You just (whoosh), dodging out of the way, being crazy rogue, evading. That brings us now to Keyleth.
Marisha: Oh, shit. Can I change people as a bat?
Matt: Yeah, as an action, you can change your form, which is an action.
Marisha: But can I stay as a bat and change other people?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah?
Matt: It says here, "On a subsequent action you can use your actions to transform affected creatures into new forms." So yeah. I don't see why you couldn't.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to turn-- do you want to be a bat, too?
Taliesin: Yeah, I'm useless.
Marisha: I'm going to turn both Vax and Percy into bats. What? I asked what you wanted to be and you said a bat. Bat! We're both bats!
Liam: That is what I want to be. You just do it.
Travis: You didn't even have time to ask that question.
Marisha: And we're peaced out again.
Laura: If we can, we're going to peace out.
Marisha: If we can, we're going to peace out.
Matt: Who else is going to turn into bats?
Sam: Bats. We're all bats.
Laura: We're all bats again.
Matt: Okay. All right. And so you're just going to do that? It's your turn, you going to move?
Marisha: I'm going to look at Vex and go (squeaking noise).
Laura: I wink as a bat like I totally understand her.
Matt: Okay. Is that your turn, Keyleth?
Marisha: Uh-huh.
Travis: You're not going to move?
Marisha: I'm following her!
Laura: Well, would she move? She's got to wait until Vax gets out of there, now he's surrounded and he's a bat.
Marisha: Vex was leading the way, she knows where to go.
Matt: Vex, your turn.
Laura: I want to lead everybody away down to the right, but I've got to make sure that my brother gets away from these thugs before that happens, so I'm going to hold my movement until-- can I--
Matt: You can't hold your movement, you can only hold an action. You can hold a dash action.
Laura: I'm going to hold my dash action, then, until I see that he's safe. Or at least he's away from them, so we can get going.
Liam: As a bat, do I have an action and bonus action like Vax does, or just one thing now?
Matt: You have your action as a bat. You can dash, still, if you want to.
Liam: Well, I will disengage as a bat?
Matt: Disengage is an action.
Liam: Can I use my action to disengage?
Matt: So you could.
Laura: Bats disengage.
Liam: Yeah. We're in new territory.
Matt: Anybody can disengage as an action, it's just a combat action. You just can't do anything else, the only thing you can do is move with your speed after that.
Liam: If they hit me, I'm back to being in regular form again, and there's three of them, so I'm going to disengage--
Matt: All right, so you disengage.
Liam: -- and then fly as far as I can towards the group.
Matt: Okay, 30 feet. Five, ten, 15, 20, 25, 30. That's where you get.
Laura: Okay, I see him, and we have everybody now. I take off to the right.
Matt: Which way is the right? You guys moved in this way? So, this way.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. So using your dash action--
Laura: It was the last thing, it was to the right was the final turn. Right?
Sam: Yup, yup.
Marisha: Right, yeah, to the right.
Taliesin: I've been holding an action, right? Can I burn that as a dash action?
Laura: I know! Why did he say it like that, like it was--
Marisha: Yeah, as far as we know, the right means right.
Sam: Maybe it's stage right.
Laura: But everything else was-- I'm going to the right. That's the last intersection that I know.
Matt: All right, so that ends Vex's turn there. Taryon.
Sam: I'm going to go where she went. And further if I can.
Matt: And you are off the page, over that way.
Taliesin: Can I burn my action as a dash?
Matt: You can, yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah, I'm burning my action as a dash.
Matt: All right, so that's--
Marisha: Let's go!
Sam: Bye!
Laura: Toodles. As much as we can be, toodles.
Marisha: Dear god, I can't believe this shit.
Matt: That brings us to Percy.
Taliesin: I'm going to keep booking.
Matt: Five, ten, 30, and you also with a double move get to there. Okay. Next up is Tova.
Noelle: Oh, I'll just keep going with the rest.
Matt: You just keep going? All right, so you catch up with these guys here way off the map. All righty. Grog.
Travis: I'm going to burn my "ashton" as a "darsh." (laughter)
Matt: (gibberish) All righty. With that, the spine devils are going to move forward.
Laura: Who is that? Is that Keyleth?
Matt: That is Percy.
Laura: Oh, it is? No, but Percy's off the map!
Matt: Oh, I'm sorry. It's Keyleth. Yeah, because I have one-two, but you guys both transformed.
Marisha: But I was holding my movement to move with Vex.
Laura: You can't hold movement.
Taliesin: You can't hold movement.
Marisha: I can't fucking hold a movement. I did an action to make sure they were bats.
Matt: Yep. So you get swarmed by three spined devils.
Laura: Fucking balls. This is not good planning.
Liam: We might be able to outrun them.
Matt: Not in this form. Attacks against you. Yep, that's an 18. Keyleth, you take six points of slashing damage. Your bat form is gone, you drop that. You become Keyleth again and you take five points of damage carried over. Then it's going to get its tail attack against you. It's going to miss. The other one's going to bite. Miss. Tail attack is going to be a 17. What's your AC?
Marisha: Currently, 16.
Matt: So you take six points of piercing damage. The last one's going to get its last two attacks on you. That is a 21 and a natural one. So the last attack you get is four points of slashing damage.
Marisha: So it's six plus four total? So, ten? Okay.
Matt: And I need you to go ahead and make three concentration checks. It's got to beat ten each time.
Marisha: Good the first time. Good the second time. And seven plus my constitution, correct?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: So that is an 11 the third time.
Matt: Your constitution saving throw?
Marisha: All three.
Matt: That's enough. So you maintain concentration on the spell.
Laura: Solid.
Liam: Thanks, Keyleth.
Marisha: You're welcome!
Matt: The bone devil flies up and is now going after Keyleth with all of its might.
Marisha: Did we heal any? We didn't do any of that healing or anything, did we?
Matt: Nope! You didn't have time.
Marisha: That's cool.
Matt: Three attacks. That is going to be an 18 for its claw.
Marisha: Hit.
Matt: Second claw, that's a 27.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: And the sting is a 25. So all three hit you. So you take nine points of slashing damage. Concentration check.
Marisha: I mean, I'm about to go down. I make it!
Matt: All right. That is 12 points of slashing damage.
Marisha: I'm down. Everyone's about to hit the ground.
Matt: Keyleth falls unconscious. And the tail strikes you, auto crit. You lose two death saving throws. (yelling)
Taliesin: We're all human now.
Marisha: And you're all human.
Matt: All of you drop form. So four would be Vex.
Taliesin: Okay, got to fix this super fast.
Marisha: Really not looking good.
Laura: Everybody's far away from her except for me and-- who's the other person?
Matt: Aw man, where did my Vex model go?
Laura: Oh no, did I disappear?
Matt: I think I may actually have left you on the other map. That's okay, I'll be fine for this one.
Laura: Oh, because I was in a corner.
Matt: I'll use the erinyes for you. That's fine.
Laura: That's okay, that's pretty hot. Can you put a little marker on me so I can see it? I can't see the erinyes.
Matt: That's you.
Laura: Okay. Thank you.
Matt: You're welcome. Percival, Vax, Taryon, Tova.
Sam: Percy, my necklace is glowing.
Taliesin: Yeah, we all know.
Sam: And I'm not a bat. Does that mean Keyleth's dead?
Matt: End of their turn. Keyleth. It's your turn. You're next in the initiative order.
Taliesin: Oh shit, no.
Laura: Oh god.
Marisha: Oh my god, I've never been here. I don't want to die. Who do I do this to?
Sam: You just rolled it.
Marisha: I did. It's a 13. Technically. Yeah. I was going to switch dice, but that's a 13, I'll take that.
Matt: Was it the intentional roll?
Marisha: No. Okay.
Taliesin: No, that's not-- Oh.
Marisha: Don't fuck me Gil. I'm good. I'm good.
Matt: What did you roll?
Marisha: It's a 12. I rolled a 12.
Matt: Okay. Still bleeding out. Man, losing that Plane Shift.
Marisha: A success. What did you just say?
Laura: Oh my god, if she dies, we're fucked
Marisha: Yeah, I know.
Travis: That was a big oversight.
Matt: That would've been campaign over. Okay.
Marisha: No, we're good, guys. Come on.
Taliesin: That might be campaign over.
Matt: Well, I don't know.
Travis: Oh my god, what the fuck were we thinking?
Matt: I'm so nervous right now, oh my god.
Laura: I'm up! I run forward and I slide on my knees and put my hand on her and cast Cure Wounds at 4th level. On Keyleth.
Matt: Okay. All right. SAM. Campaign resumes.
Matt: Holy shit.
Marisha: I'm great, I'm good.
Travis: Aw, man. That roll was bigger than I knew.
Taliesin: Yeah, that would've been fucking bad.
Matt: You guys have a spreading urgency of the entire prison of Mentiri now bearing down on escaped mortal criminals. Without Plane Shift, if that doesn't work...
Marisha: Okay, all right. So we have the extreme hint.
Sam: But we were bats, Matt. That was pretty fine planning.
Marisha: That was awesome. It was going great.
Laura: 27 points.
Matt: You heal 27 points, Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: That's my action.
Matt: Your movement.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: You have a bonus.
Travis: You want to heal yourself? Potions?
Laura: I'm going to pop Trinket out, as my bonus.
Matt: Whereabouts?
Laura: Behind-- sure, whatever.
Matt: I'll say, just instinctually, you pop him out about there.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right.
Laura: And that was my full movement and everything, wasn't it?
Matt: Yeah. All right, Vax, it's your turn.
Liam: I run and skip right up next to my sister and I have a potion of superior healing and I pour it into Keyleth's mouth.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: I'm conscious.
Liam: Yes, I know.
Matt: (gurgles) (laughter)
Liam: 22 more.
Marisha: Oh, okay. Vax! I'm at 49 hit points.
Matt: You didn't realize until the last moment and was like, "Oh, if Keyleth goes down."
Laura: Bad News Bears.
Liam: How long has it been since the pit fiend moment?
Matt: It's been roughly an hour. A little over an hour.
Liam: All right. And I'm going to, as a bonus action, chuck Whisper into-- no, it has to be tied to an action, doesn't it?
Matt: It has to be after an attack, yeah.
Liam: Oh, well there's nothing else I can do.
Taliesin: Stand her up.
Liam: I can get up with a bonus action, though?
Marisha: Can you help me up?
Liam: No, bonus action was the potion, no? Can't the potion be a bonus?
Laura: No, not if you give it to somebody else.
Liam: Okay. Then I'm done.
Matt: So, Taryon.
Laura: Do you have any spells? Like a Bless or anything?
Liam: No, I'm out.
Sam: How far away am I?
Matt: You're about-- with 30-foot movement you can get within range where you can see any of the creatures.
Sam: Okay. I'll run back then, I guess.
Matt: Okay. You'll get there.
Laura: Bring everything in to use so you can just (poosh) to them.
Matt: Yeah. You have these three little spine devils that are like flying imps covered in spines that are relatively small, and you have one big bone devil-- that was the one that just almost killed Keyleth.
Sam: I'll throw acid at one, I guess.
Matt: At which one?
Sam: The one who looks the meanest.
Matt: That's the bone devil. All right. Dex save. That is a 14. What's your DC?
Sam: 17.
Matt: So yeah. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: Yay.
Sam: Okay. Give me some sixes. And one more. Boom. Oh, lots. (laughter)
Laura: How did this happen? How did we get here?
Sam: 25.
Matt: 25 points of acid damage to the bone devil.
Laura: Nice!
Liam: Fiancee and campaign? Killed.
Matt: So as the vial breaks across the front of its body, you can see the acid burn its flesh. It curls into itself; you can see the smoke rising off of it as its flesh is beginning to burn and melt away. Nice. That's your turn.
Sam: All right, I will cast Sanctuary on young Keyleth.
Matt: Oh shit!
Taliesin: Nice!
Laura: That's the first time you've helped another person, right?
Sam: In my life. (laughter)
Matt: Oh, Taryon. All right, Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Fuck sound at this point, I suppose. I'm going to run and just get them into view.
Matt: Yep, you got them.
Taliesin: All right. Three shots, and I'm going to do a pushback on all three and I'm going to push them all--
Matt: The spine devils, you mean?
Taliesin: Spine devil, spine devil, bone devil.
Matt: Okay, so there's three spine devils and one bone devil. So two spine devils and one bone devil.
Taliesin: Three spine devils and one bone devil?
Matt: Yes. Three spine devils and one bone devil.
Taliesin: Three spine devils and one bone devil?
Travis: Stop saying it.
Marisha: No Coke, Pepsi.
Taliesin: No Coke, Pepsi. And the bone devil's a real problem, I suppose.
Matt: He's the dangerous-looking one.
Taliesin: Okay, in that case, I'm going to push him back. I'm going to do a shot to push him back.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: And that's a 19, 29--
Matt: Yeah, you hit.
Liam: Pop-pop-pop, motherfucker!
Laura: (sing "mmmbop")
Marisha: (sing "mmmbop")
Taliesin: That's my power song, you don't even know. 15 points of damage, plus five psychic, and he moves backwards ten feet.
Matt: So 20 damage. He pushes back just that far, but he hits the wall. He can't get pushed back further.
Taliesin: Can't get pushed any-- he's still--
Matt: Still right there.
Liam: Percy's in hell, Hanson playing in his brain.
Matt: He's already up against the wall.
Taliesin: All right. Second, I'll take a spine devil, the one that's threatening the most people?
Sam: That song is not called "Doo-Bop." It's called "Mmmbop."
Laura: That's what I said.
Taliesin: 25.
Matt: That hits. Roll damage.
Taliesin: That's not the damage. Oh yeah. 17 points of damage and six points of psychic damage.
Matt: You scatter one of the spine devils with one shot. Blasts apart.
Taliesin: The other one, I'm going to spend a point for Grit for deadeye, just to get advantage.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: That's cocked. 29?
Matt: 29 hits.
Taliesin: 14 points of damage and one point of psychic?
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: He's still standing?
Matt: Still standing.
Taliesin: Action surge.
Liam: Yes!
Taliesin: Three more shots.
Sam: Three more?
Taliesin: Hitting him again. Same thing, with a Grit.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Yeah, that's good to do. 24 to hit?
Matt: Hits. This is against the second spine devil, yeah.
Taliesin: That's 11 points of damage and four psychic.
Matt: He scatters.
Taliesin: Third spine devil. Same thing-- actually, I get my Grit back. Third spine devil.
Matt: These shots are (gunshots).
Taliesin: Yeah, actually, I'll reroll the cocked one, but it doesn't matter. Yeah. That hits.
Matt: Echoing through the hall. Everyone who is ever searching for anything knows exactly where to go now.
Taliesin: Yeah, fuck it. It's worth it, though. 13 points of damage and five psychic.
Matt: Okay. Still standing, but looking rough.
Taliesin: And another shot, same thing, with advantage. That's fine. 24?
Matt: 24. Yep.
Taliesin: Thank god they're easy to hit. That's 16 points of damage and four psychic.
Matt: The third spine devil's upper torso is disintegrated by the blast. Its wings flick off to its sides, spattering part of the bone devil.
Taliesin: I'm going to spend my last Grit. Last Grit is a shot to the spine devil.
Matt: That was already three attacks. That was three more attacks.
Taliesin: That was one, two--
Matt: Yeah, you killed the second one, and then shot twice to kill a third one. So you're out of attacks.
Taliesin: I'm done. Reload, and that's the end of my turn.
Matt: All righty. At this point, you guys can hear distant yelling getting louder and louder down the hallway where you came from. You hear the voices echoing and swarming, and people are starting to get closer, knowing where you are. Tova, you're up.
Noelle: How many of these devil-guys are left?
Matt: There's just the one bone devil left.
Noelle: Okay. I'm going to run back a full 45 feet. How close can I get to him?
Matt: 45? You can get about there. You're about ten, 15 feet from him. Ten feet.
Liam: You got any projectile shit?
Noelle: I do not.
Taliesin: Need to heal?
Noelle: That would help.
Taliesin: Do you have anything to heal with? (laughter)
Noelle: Don't think so.
Travis: You hungry? Yeah. You have any food? (laughter)
Noelle: Who's closest to me, here?
Matt: Currently, it's Vax, the half-elf rogue guy.
Noelle: Can I save my action?
Matt: You could.
Noelle: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah, because you haven't had a short rest, so you don't have your blood curses back, yeah.
Noelle: Yeah, no, I don't have--
Matt: Okay. So you're just going to hold your action just in case it comes near?
Noelle: Yeah, I'll just hang out with my new friends here.
Matt: Okay. Sounds good. Grog.
Travis: Go running in 50 feet. (war cry)
Matt: 50 feet puts you standing over Keyleth, pretty much.
Travis: Am I in melee distance?
Matt: You are in melee distance.
Travis: Reckless attacks!
Laura: Yes, kill it so we can run away.
Travis: 29.
Matt: You do have a point of exhaustion, by the way.
Travis: Yes.
Matt: 29 hits.
Travis: 24 points.
Matt: 24 points of damage, all righty.
Travis: Second one, reckless. Natural 20.
All: Oh!
Liam: From the gods.
Marisha: Yes, from the gods.
Travis: 24, 27, 34. 34 points of damage.
Matt: Well, did you double the dice?
Travis: Did two additional damage dice rolls.
Matt: Right, so you did the first one--
Travis: Initial one, and then I did two more d10s.
Matt: Okay, so the total was?
Travis: 34.
Matt: 34. All righty.
Travis: Yeah, because I have two levels of brutal critical.
Matt: Great, so those are your two attacks.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: All right. That brings us to the bone devil's turn.
Laura: Oh, he's still alive?
Matt: Yeah, he's still alive. And seeing everybody rush in and help this wounded creature on the ground--
Noelle: Matt? Can I-- sorry, keep going.
Matt: Okay. You sure?
Noelle: Can I use the blood curses-- I can use it three times per short rest, so I have one more, right? I did two in the prison.
Matt: Two Mutual Suffering, and you did your Mark.
Noelle: Oh, you're right, okay. You're right. Did three. Sorry. Carry on.
Matt: It's all good. All right, so. It's going to go ahead-- actually, no, let me roll to see which way it goes. Okay, yeah, it's not that intelligent. So intelligence check, you being the immediate threat, it turns attention towards you as opposed to Keyleth, who's currently on the ground. As you're the biggest threat to it at the moment, it's going to go ahead and make three strikes at you. That is 16?
Travis: Misses!
Matt: 16?
Travis: Misses!
Marisha: Come on, Grog!
Matt: 17.
Travis: Hits!
Matt: Ah, finally. Eight, eight, nine. (laughs) All right. That is 16 points of piercing damage, and no poison because you are immune.
Travis: Word.
Matt: All right. That ends its turn, and it's going to shift over, flying over onto this way, the coasting in the center there, and getting over Keyleth, getting closer to the blood pool--
Travis: May I make a retali--
Matt: Retaliation? Yes, you can. As a reaction, you can.
Marisha: Come on, kill it!
Travis: Reckless, please. 30.
Matt: Yeah, that hits.
Travis: Yeah. 24.
Matt: 24 points of damage. As it flies over you through the air, you arc in the direction with your hammer, and as you do, it breaks its entire ribcage inward. You hear the shattering of bones, and it gives out this wheeze as you follow through and slam it back down where it was standing.
Travis: Sweet! (cheering)
Laura: Keyleth, can you do a Wall of Stone?
Marisha: Yeah, into the corridor.
Laura: Yeah, block it!
Travis: Do it here so they don't know which way we went.
Sam: They know the layout of this prison.
Travis: Yeah, but they don't know which direction we went.
Matt: You guys hear voices now coming from the other sides, as well.
Sam: Let me do something. I'm going to use my Scroll of Programmed Illusion.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Have any creatures talked to us in Common down here? With their mouths, not with their minds?
Matt: There have been a handful, yeah.
Sam: What kind?
Matt: They've been the cambion, the guy you met earlier with the red skin who made the deal with Percival.
Travis: The chain devil.
Matt: The chain devil spoke Common.
Sam: Okay. Did he work in the prison?
Matt: The chain devil did.
Sam: Great, chain devil. So I'm going to make a Programmed Illusion. Upon anyone approaching, a chain devil will appear over the dead bodies that we just killed and say, "There were five of them. They went that way!" And point down the hallway that we just came out of. "Go, get them now! Make them pay!" (cheering)
Matt: All righty. As you pull the scroll out, and you watch the scroll burst into flame as you finish the incantation, you watch as out of the blood pool, rising, this chain devil, looking real, material, steps up and walks over to the bodies and sits there looking over them, waiting for someone to trigger.
Laura: Okay, we should put Dust of Tracelessness down. Dust of Tracelessness on the ground!
Matt: Okay, you start flower girling your way.
Marisha: I hold my Wall of Stone, since he has that, because I don't want to make it apparent.
Matt: Get this map out if we can? Okay, so you guys continue to the right. Thank you. And bring the last one in. You guys head down this hallway for about another hundred feet, hearing the shouts behind. You hear conversation, different languages happening. They're getting a little more distant. You're catching some ground here, and it's going well. Eventually you make your way--
Sam: Jesus, there's another whole fucking map?
Marisha: The doors, always. This is Matt Mercer we're talking about.
Liam: I'm looking for fucking traps.
Matt: You guys make your way down to the end of this chamber, and you see three different doors that are all closed off, to the front, to the right, and the left.
Liam: Fanged smiles.
Laura: Fanged smile.
Matt: As you're making your investigation check, you hear what sounds like the writhing of chains and the pulling of heavy metal grinding. As you begin to look and inspect the doors real fast, you glance up, and the entire ceiling is a sea of rolling chains, all gathering, and then from the ceiling bursts down in the center of the chamber-- (yelling)
Matt: A chain golem slams into the center, its glowing red eyes from underneath. All right. As you guys have all scattered amongst these chambers you ran down, Vax just rushed up and began to inspect these here. What are you guys doing?
Marisha: Wait, is this it? Is this where we're supposed to be?
Taliesin: We've got to find out which room he's in.
Matt: All right. Everyone roll initiative.
Travis: Oh my god. What size is that thing?
Matt: It's almost 20 feet tall, and when it slams the ground, it's hunched forward. If it were standing upright, it would scrape the ceiling.
Travis: So it's fire giant size.
Matt: A little bit under fire giant size, but you watch the chains from the ceiling are still attached to it. It's like the whole ceiling and upper portion of this chamber is made of chains that are feeding it.
Laura: Do we have anything to freeze?
Marisha: To freeze? Yeah. We have our shit back, right?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Laura: If we can freeze him in place, maybe. He's made of metal.
Matt: 25 to 20.
Laura: 24.
Matt: 24.
Noelle: 21.
Matt: Tova. And what did you roll for your investigation check earlier?
Liam: Oh, 22.
Matt: 22. This doorway, the first one you checked? Does not seem to have-- the symbol on it appears to be some sort of Infernal symbol that you don't recognize. All right. 20 to 15?
Marisha: 17.
Taliesin: 15.
Matt: 15 to ten?
Travis: 13.
Matt: Taryon?
Sam: Two.
Travis: Wow.
Liam: Eight for Vax.
Matt: All right. Vex, you're up first.
Laura: Can I run to the other doors that Vax has been looking at?
Matt: Which one of these are you checking?
Laura: Huh?
Matt: Which one of these doors are you checking?
Laura: The far one in the back. Yeah. And I'll look for the symbol.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: 23.
Matt: 23. You go and look up, and this one has a symbol that looks like a half-moon that is broken and is bleeding into a pool below it.
Laura: And I'm looking for a fanged grin?
Matt: It's a crescent half-moon that looks like it's broken in the middle.
Laura: That totally could be a fanged grin. Okay.
Sam: Which one?
Laura: The very back door.
Matt: This one and this one have been inspected. So that's your movement to get up there. And your action to look thoroughly and look at the symbol in the low light. You have a bonus still.
Laura: Yeah. Is it possible to bonus hide?
Matt: You have nowhere to hide from. You have nothing obscuring.
Laura: Nothing to obscure the view?
Matt: Not really.
Laura: Okay, then I'm going to use my bonus to pop Trinket out.
Matt: Okay. Trinket appears out of your necklace.
Laura: I guess he was already out, wasn't he? Because we were running.
Matt: Yeah, but you may have pulled him back in. It's fine.
Laura: That's a waste of bonus. (laughs) No, I'm going to Hunter's Mark. So Trinket was out. I'm going to Hunter's Mark the guy.
Matt: All right, I'll go with it. Hunter's Mark on the chain golem. Tova, your turn.
Noelle: Okay. I'm going to run over there behind the chain golem where Vex is. I'm going to do a perception check. I guess I'll check out this last door.
Matt: Okay.
Noelle: Can I do a general sense of smell for the whole area and see if I smell anything coming from any of these prisons?
Matt: Sure. Make a perception check as you're rushing in.
Laura: What about symbols? Do you see anything?
Matt: With advantage.
Noelle: Yep. All right. So that is a 23.
Matt: 23. The chambers seem to have various scents that kind of mix in this area. The one on the far end has this ancient, dusty, decay smell to it. The one on the opposite side of the chamber has a weirdly iron, rusty old metal scent, and the doorway that you're at right now has a very strong scent of sulfur.
Noelle: Is there anything on the door?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Noelle: Where's investigation? That's an 18.
Matt: You knock the dust from the side, and as you inspect closely, hearing the chains grinding and spinning around you, and occasionally you duck because you see one kind of whip across and break part of the stone and cause chunks of it to fly off. You look down, and you see two small eyes and one deep, toothy grin.
Noelle: Hey, this one's smiling!
Laura: But is it a fanged grin? A fanged grin is usually cocked. But it looks more--
Noelle: He doesn't appear sincere, so. What do I have left?
Matt: Well, as a note, just remember this, it took you a while to get there because the chains that were rolling around it are entangling and wrapping around the area, so you were at half movement, which got you just to there. I forgot to mention that earlier. However, the chains, in the process, are crushing and doing damage as you move through them. Six points of bludgeoning damage to you as you pull your way through the chains getting to that area. All right, that ends Tova's turn. It is now the chain golem's turn.
Noelle: Do I have an extra action or anything?
Matt: Your action was to do the investigation. You have your bonus, if you have something to spend it with.
Noelle: Turn into a bear?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: (laughs) "I turn into a bear?"
Matt: And bear form. (sings) And bear form. There is your bear form. All righty. So ending Tova's turn, it is now the golem's turn. The golem has a ten-foot range on its slam. It's going to do two slam attacks. It's going to reach out and slam once at Percy, who is within its front range there after landing, and Keyleth, who's immediately to its left.
Laura: Don't fucking die, Keyleth.
Matt: A physical slam attack. A giant battering-ram of heavy, thick chains are going to punch out towards Percival. The fist swings, and almost merges with the rest of the body as a second arm forms where it was and then backfists into Keyleth. Like its form shifts with the chains that move around within its body, and its form is ever-changing and shifting, like a giant amoeba of moving metal. The first attack towards Percival. That is 27 to hit.
Taliesin: Oh my god, yes.
Matt: All right. You suffer 22 points of bludgeoning damage. And against Keyleth, that is a 25 to hit.
Marisha: Yep.
Matt: Keyleth, you take 21 points of bludgeoning damage.
Sam: Is Sanctuary still working on her?
Matt: Actually, Sanctuary is on. Has to make a wisdom saving throw before it can do that. Which it fails! You take no damage. (cheering)
Matt: It rolled a two and had a zero wisdom modifier.
Marisha: Oh, that's good, that's great.
Matt: So as it goes to strike you, the second fist appears and then seems to dwindle and fall to the ground, and it forms again in the spot where it was. You watch as multiple arms are now forming and coming out of it at different places. It's going to back up. As it does so, its eyes shift. These two red, beady points of light that form its eyes kind of shift to the back of its head, and now you see they're almost moving around, and it's keeping a visual range of everything in the room.
Taliesin: Do I get an attack of opportunity since we're moving out of its combat range?
Matt: No. It was not in your combat range. It had reach, unfortunately. That ends its turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. I need to stay alive. Who's close to me in a 30-foot radius? And who's looking rough?
Travis: You.
Matt: Everyone but Vex and Trinket are in a 30-foot radius.
Marisha: Okay. I want to start backing out a little bit, and who's lowest on hit points? Legit.
Laura: You.
Liam: You.
Noelle: I have 19 hit points left.
Sam: And me.
Marisha: Me, Tova, Taryon, and I can pick three more people. I'm going to do a Mass Cure Wounds.
Taliesin: Who else wants it?
Liam: I'll take it. I'm at like two-thirds, I guess?
Marisha: Vax.
Taliesin: Grog, you want it?
Marisha: Anyone else looking relatively low?
Travis: No, I'm not relatively low.
Laura: If you can do it to everybody, why not?
Marisha: I can do it to six people.
Taliesin: So we've got, one, two, three, four. I'll say yes.
Laura: And Grog.
Marisha: And Grog. And we're going to do a Mass Cure Wounds. 3d8 plus my spellcasting ability. Okay.
Matt: Yep, so 3d8 plus six. Go for it. Percy, you're up next.
Marisha: Oh my god, that's amazing. Oh, that's a one.
Sam: You can reroll ones.
Marisha: No, only if it's elemental damage. Eight, 16, 17 plus six.
Matt: Six, so 23.
Marisha: 23 points.
Matt: 23 points of healing. So mark that in, guys. That's your action.
Marisha: And then I'm backing out a little bit.
Matt: Backing this way or this way?
Marisha: Yeah, away from the chain golem. Yeah. That way.
Matt: This way. If you move one more, he's going to get attack of opportunity on you because you're within melee range of him right now.
Marisha: Fucking hell.
Matt: You want to risk it? Or not?
Marisha: Yeah, I'll risk it.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Can you transform anymore or are you spent?
Marisha: I can do it one more time, but only to an animal, not an elemental.
Matt: Okay, so you back up. It takes a swing at you with its chain slam. That is 26 to hit.
Marisha: Yep.
Matt: You take--
Sam: Is Sanctuary still on her?
Matt: 30 points of bludgeoning damage.
Taliesin: Sanctuary.
Laura: Sanctuary.
Matt: Sanctuary. Thank you for reminding me. That is a 14.
Marisha: Miss!
Matt: What's your DC? 17?
Sam: On what? My spell DC?
Matt: Yeah, spell DC.
Sam: 17.
Matt: 17. It goes to swing again towards you as a reaction and the magic prevents it from actually hitting its mark and the chains retract back into its body.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: So no damage is sustained.
Sam: Matt, if I may be--
Laura: No.
Sam: Technically, he can choose another target.
Marisha: Are you going to be honest?
Laura: Oh, because he failed?
Sam: No, it just says in Sanctuary you can either fail or he can choose another target.
Matt: That's true. All right, so instead--
Sam: Sorry. Just saying.
Matt: No, that's good. It'll go to Tova and Vax for the two attacks that he got Sanctuary earlier. So to Vax, that is a 31.
Liam: No, that does not hit.
Matt: So you take the 30 points of damage instead.
Marisha: You're taking it for me?
Liam: Yes, I am.
Marisha: Thanks, boyfriend!
Matt: Against Tova that is a natural one.
Noelle: That's a what?
Matt: Natural one to hit you. So it actually slams into the door above.
Laura: Does it break through the door?
Matt: I'll make a strength check now.
Liam: Happy to.
Matt: The door cracks and it partially gets pushed inward. Somehow the chain golem actually helped you out. That's interesting. All right. That ends its turn. Keyleth, you're up. No, sorry, that was Keyleth's turn. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm out of its range now.
Matt: You are currently just out of its range.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm going to back up a bit. Move me behind that-- and then move me-- the other pillar.
Matt: Oh, this way?
Taliesin: Head that way. Does it look like those chains are feeding it?
Matt: It doesn't look like it's feeding it more than just the chains are keeping it attached to the walls. The mass of the chains are still in its chest.
Taliesin: And it has eyeballs.
Matt: It has some sort of two glowing light sources within the mass of chains that form where its head would be--
Taliesin: Would a headshot to those eyeballs actually be a thing that might work?
Matt: You can try it.
Taliesin: I'm going to try it. I'm going to burn a thing and see if that does it. So. Yeah. Let's find out.
Matt: You're up next, Grog.
Taliesin: Right. Yeah, that'll do. 32 to hit.
Matt: 32 hits.
Taliesin: All right. That's a d10 and d6. That's 11 points of damage and three points of psychic damage.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: And it has to make a constitution saving throw.
Matt: It does not, actually, because it's not affected by that effect. Its eyes can shift throughout its body.
Taliesin: There's no snapping, breaking the glass?
Matt: Nope.
Taliesin: Man, you made me burn a Grit. That sucks.
Matt: Yeah. Even with its spell advantage against all those Sanctuary saves, it just doesn't have a very high wisdom so it just cannot make it.
Taliesin: That's okay. I'm going to take a sharpshooter shot at it and just keep damaging it. I'm going to do a sharpshooter shot.
Matt: Two more. Go for it.
Taliesin: That was shot one.
Matt: Shot one. You have two more.
Taliesin: Shot two. That's a 25.
Matt: Hits.
Taliesin: That's, ooh. 27 points of damage. And five psychic.
Matt: Nice. 32, all righty. Last attack.
Taliesin: And another shot, same thing, sharpshooter. Fuck.
Marisha: Yeah, that's cocked.
Sam: You have too many dice on there.
Taliesin: I never do. (groans) Could be worse. 14.
Matt: 14? Okay.
Taliesin: Does 14 hit?
Matt: 14 does not hit. Sorry, thought that was the damage. Sorry.
Taliesin: Okay. And then I'm going to stay in but keep an eye on everything that's happening.
Matt: Yeah. All right. Keyleth, by the way, as you were moving through the chains-- I forgot to mention earlier, as the tangling chains around it. You did suffer five points of bludgeoning damage as the chains are just swirling around and the aura and the area of its vicinity just shreds like a slow-moving grinder.
Marisha: As I move out?
Matt: You're still in there.
Marisha: But I healed? Okay. So I'm at 60 points, right?
Matt: Grog, you're up.
Laura: Get it, Grog.
Travis: Where am I on the map?
Matt: Right there.
Laura: Ooh, perfect.
Travis: Yeah, door-- smash it open, right?
Matt: All right, go for it. Roll an attack.
Travis: Crack of doom. 23.
Matt: 23 hits.
Travis: What do I roll?
Matt: Just roll damage for your hammer.
Travis: Oh yeah, that makes sense, right? Nine. 25.
Matt: 25 damage? Becomes 50 because of siege. The door is absolutely sundered and comes off. Oh god. As the door blows open, you glance inside. You can see within the walls are covered in pulse-y, fleshy, muscle-like substance with these long stretched tendons and pieces of sinew that all gather to the center, and you see this shifting larval egg. And within, you can see a small humanoid figure that is swirling and writhing within. It seems like it's in this perpetual state of agony, screaming quietly within this weird fleshy egg sac and you can see the features of a tiger-like face and fangs writhing inside.
Marisha: Fucking, umbilical cord.
Travis: I have one more hit. I'll stride forward and swing away.
Matt: Okay. As you step forward, the chain golem already used its reaction so it cannot. You just walk forward. Make an attack.
Travis: Reckless, please.
Laura: Because why not.
Travis: Because why not. That's a million. It's 32.
Matt: Roll damage.
Laura: A million.
Taliesin: Million.
Travis: 22.
Matt: (impact noise) It just (explosion) spattered across the ground. What was once shifting is now a fine red cream as the true form of Hotis, partially returned, is now scattered across the steaming pavement of the depths of the Mentiri prison. The devil is no more. You are free from the curse. (cheering)
Matt: Now just to get out of here, because you hear the voices in the distance now getting--
Laura: Now we just have to Plane Shift.
Noelle: What is happening?
Laura: Is it done?
Travis: No. How much movement do I have left?
Matt: That was you. Because of the chains wrapping around you-- which, by the way, did five points of bludgeoning damage to you.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: It takes you half movement to move through that space so that's five, ten, 15, 20, 25, 30. So you can move two more squares.
Travis: Two more squares. I'll come back out the door and towards Keyleth.
Matt: All right. That'll get you about there. And that's as far as you can get. The chains are tangling you up and preventing you from moving quickly. Ending Grog's turn. Taryon.
Sam: I mean, we're done.
Laura: Get to Keyleth. We have to be touching her.
Sam: I'll move to Keyleth and say  Tova, are you coming with us? You have to, sort of.
Noelle: Where are you going?
Sam: To another plane of existence. But one without chain golems trying to kill you.
Noelle: I can't. I can't leave my friends. I have to try and find them.
Sam: How?
Noelle: I don't know.
Sam: I'll go next to Keyleth.
Matt: Okay. So you step in next to her over the grate.
Sam: I can make you invisible. I can make you fly. What would help you get out of here?
Noelle: I'll have that invisibility.
Sam: Sure.
Noelle: Invisible bear?
Matt: As Tova vanishes in the moment, and is this slight ripple in the air.
Taliesin: Oh, you have a slight ripple figure. Phantom bear.
Laura: Does he?
Matt: There is where you are. Tova's form vanishes.
Noelle: How long does that last?
Sam: A minute.
Noelle: Thanks.
Sam: Just one minute. (laughter)
Travis: Run real fast.
Laura: And the minute you take damage, you become visible again?
Matt: Invisibility lasts an hour.
Sam: It lasts an hour?! Oh! Hey, you can get out with that.
Noelle: Going to try and do that.
Marisha: Get out.
Travis: She's like  okay, I've got to get-- (poof)
Matt: All righty. Vex.
Laura: All right. I'm going to run forward and try to get to-- I'm going to poof Trinket in and run forward and try to get to Keyleth.
Matt: Okay. Ten, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35. That's as far as you can get, right there. Make a double dash?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right. 25, 30. That's as far as you get, and you take eight points of bludgeoning damage from the chains that are whipping around you and wrapping around your legs and tying you up as you're reaching forward. It's like this swamp of grinding metal. That ends your turn. Tova. You're invisible. If you do any attacks, you lose invisibility, so either you're going with them, or you're retreating into the prison for better or for worse.
Noelle: Can I run over, pick up Vex, and carry her over to her friends? 45.
Sam: Is Vex down?
Noelle: No. She can't move any more.
Sam: Oh. (laughs)
Matt: 35, 40. You get right up next to her, right there. She's light enough. You lift her up, and you make a dash action to bring her over for half speed.
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: 15, 20. You get her just there, within range of Keyleth.
Laura: I'm so confused.
Noelle: You just got carried by an invisible bear!
Matt: You take five points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to half because you're in your bear form, so you take two points of bludgeoning damage.
Laura: I feel very nostalgic for some reason as she's doing this. This is very comfortable for me.
Matt: The golem's turn now.
Laura: Oh god. Am I on the ground again? Did you put me down?
Noelle: Yeah, I put you down.
Laura: Okay.
Noelle: I mean, unless you want to be airplaned up by an invisible bear.
Laura: I mean, I'm not opposed, but.
Matt: The golem is going to make a chain prison attack.
Travis: A chain prison?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: He's really going to just try to kill us before we can get out of here.
Matt: It's going to-- let's see here. It's going to get Percy, Keyleth, and Taryon.
Sam: Oh, shitballs.
Matt: I need you guys to all make dexterity saving throws.
Marisha: Don't fuck me, Gil. Oh, that's good, Gil!
Sam: I'm feeling lucky. Thank god. 20.
Matt: 20? That's exactly what you needed.
Marisha: 19 plus four, 23.
Matt: Percy?
Taliesin: It's a dex saving throw, and 20 is what we need? I'm going to use a resolve and see if I can make this work.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Nope. Same thing. 17.
Matt: 17. So everyone else, you guys both manage to break free. Percy, you are restrained.
Taliesin: All right.
Marisha: Gods damn it.
Matt: As the chains swirl up and wrap around your legs and torso and you find yourself bound in place.
Taliesin: Can we make a chain?
Laura: If we make a chain, we can reach over to him.
Marisha: Oh my god, like Guardians of the Galaxy, you guys?
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: Keyleth, your turn.
Marisha: I'm holding my turn and reaching out and trying to make this chain as much as I can.
Matt: You're going to begin casting the spell and holding the release of it until?
Marisha: As soon as everyone links hands, we're out.
Matt: At the start of your turn, you take nine points of bludgeoning damage from the chains that are swirling around you.
Marisha: That's fine. Can I do a bonus action to heal-- who's looking rough?
Laura: You. Heal yourself.
Taliesin: You.
Laura: Just heal your-fucking-self.
Marisha: Okay, I'm at 59 hit points. I'm going to heal myself.
Matt: So 2nd-level Healing Word? 1st-level?
Marisha: Yeah. 2nd-level. That's four plus another three.
Matt: So seven plus six. 13. You heal 13, and you begin casting Plane Shift. You pull out of your side satchel the tuning fork that you have attuned to where? Where are you going to be casting this towards?
Marisha: 73. Sorry, 73 hit points.
Matt: What location are you shifting towards, Keyleth, as you begin the spell?
Marisha: Home. Whitestone. Exandria.
Matt: Focusing on Whitestone in Exandria, you begin to cast the incantation. You see the power in her hands begins to glow, but she's holding it back. She's concentrating hard.
Marisha: And I just take whatever leftover action I have to be like, Vox Machina, come on!
Matt: All right, ending your turn, Keyleth. Percival, what are you doing?
Taliesin: I'm going to try and break out of this chain.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and make a strength check.
Taliesin: Goddamn it.
Travis: You've got this.
Sam: Natural 20. Golden snitch.
Taliesin: Strength check or strength save?
Matt: Strength check.
Taliesin: 14.
Matt: 14. You can't break the chains. They're too strong.
Taliesin: Can I use an action surge to try and do it again?
Matt: Yeah, because you get two now, at this level.
Taliesin: Yep, I've got one more.
Marisha: Come on, Percy.
Taliesin: (sighs) Nope.
Matt: Can't break free. The chains are holding you in place. Ending your turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Who's the one who's back there?
Laura: That's Vax. He can dash.
Travis: Okay. Yeah, I would like to move towards Percy.
Matt: All right, at the start of your turn, Grog, you take seven points of bludgeoning damage from the swirling chains.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Reduced to three.
Travis: I'm not raging.
Matt: So that's five, ten, 15, 20, 25, 30. What's that?
Laura: He's not raging.
Matt: 50. You get right there.
Laura: Tary and Grog can hold hands in that position, right? He can reach Tary and Percy?
Marisha: We just need a chain.
Matt: No, Taryon is right here.
Laura: Yeah, so can he reach his hand out and have Percy and Tary?
Matt: Everyone would need to shift one more in that direction, or someone can plug that hole.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Do I need to break your chains or just touch you?
Taliesin: Just touch will work.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: That's true.
Travis: All right. I just grab your hand, and I'll lean back like this.
Laura: Oh yeah, he's super tall. Can he reach farther because he's super tall?
Liam: I saw my sister get picked up and put down, so I know where invisi-bear is, and I'm going to push through and feel along my sister's shoulder and feel were-bear's arm and say: You're in the middle of hell. This is a Ring of Invisibility. Thank you-- and push through, and I'm going to try to use my bonus to push all the way through and fill that gap.
Taliesin: You may have to throw the knife.
Matt: You can just barely, with the chains that are around you-- which by the way, Vax, you take eight points of bludgeoning damage. You can just get up to put the ring into Tova's hand, and that's as far as you can get.
Liam: I have an action and bonus action. Can't I use the bonus action to dash?
Matt: You can, actually.
Laura: Please, please, please.
Noelle: Come on, guys. Get out of here.
Laura: Please, just let him get there!
Matt: 25, 30. You're not quite there.
Liam: All right, well, I grab Keyleth's hand and we're going to work on closing this gap.
Matt: Well, you dashed with your bonus.
Liam: My action wasn't to give her the ring?
Matt: So yeah, you feel for her. That's your turn.
Marisha: Can you throw your dagger and hit me?
Liam: I'm out.
Marisha: You can't do anything else. You can't hit me?
Sam: No problem, guys.
Laura: We've just got one teeny little gap here, and whose turn is it?
Matt: All right, that brings us to Vex.
Laura: That's me?
Matt: Well, technically Taryon.
Sam: Oh. Me? I'm right there, aren't I?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Can I bridge the gap somehow?
Liam: Can he yank Vax?
Matt: You can use your action to try and pull him over.
Sam: To pull Vax over?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Fill the hole.
Matt: You do take seven points of bludgeoning damage from the chains.
Taliesin: Oh god. Stress.
Sam: Okay, great. Seven points. Okay, yeah. I'll reach like I've never reached before, and say: We're brothers forever. Lifelong teammates. Friends.
Taliesin: Out, out. Go, go!
Marisha: You fucking ass. Goddamn it!
Matt: You pull him into the space. Everyone grabs hands.
Laura: Oh, not you.
Matt: You see Tova's form appear briefly as she puts the ring on and then vanishes once more. You see the rest of them grab arms together. Keyleth, you finish the spell, Plane Shift.
Noelle: I'll look you up if I make it out of here alive.
Marisha: Please!
Liam: The ring's a loaner!
Noelle: We've still got to get that beer.
Sam: Greystone Keep! Get my robot!
Matt: You can see the chain golem swelling as the chains are feeding it. It's growing larger in the chambers, its red eyes getting brighter and brighter. As you all clasp hands together, the light flashes a bright whitish-green. There's a high-pitched whine just as you hear devils rushing in from across the hallway. (whoosh) Silence. And that's where we'll pick up next week. (groaning)
Laura: Holy shit.
Liam: You've got to live, Tova. You've got to live!
Noelle: I'll do my best.
Matt: Holy shit.
Noelle: I'm doing great.
Travis: Oh my god, Matthew!
Matt: Thank you guys. Oh shit.
Liam: You've got to Bilbo Baggins your way out of that shit!
Noelle: I'm in a much better position than I was to start with.
Laura: Holy crap.
Matt: Let's just hope Tova doesn't come across another pit fiend, because they can see through invisibility.
Sam: Five minutes later, Tova was killed. (laughter)
Matt: There are devils that can see through invisibility.
Noelle: I'm sure it will be fine.
Matt: I'm sure you'll be fine. It'll be great.
Sam: Worst case scenario, she ends the day where she started.
Laura: That was a really fun episode. That was a really fun game.
Matt: That was awesome, guys.
Laura: I feel like that was the most fun that we've had in a while.
Travis: Chain golems, all the demons.
Laura: I'm so tired!
Matt: It was fun. Guys, well done.
Marisha: We made it out, right?
Matt: Noelle, thank you so much for playing with us.
Noelle: This was fucking awesome.
Matt: Such a blast. Good sticking to the guns and staying behind. I was like, I don't know what she's going to do about this. Thinking you were going to find a way to find them.
Noelle: Yeah, and then I just keep showing up every week. You can't get rid of me. (laughter)
Matt: It's happened before. Our story ended up keeping Rothfuss here for three or four weeks in a row. It was supposed to be just a one-night thing.
Noelle: I had a mission.
Matt: He got a killing blow on a boss, too. We've had two guests get killing blows on a boss.
Marisha: We've had good themes of guests killing bosses.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Because Mary killed the white dragon.
Matt: That's true. You guys have got to pick up your slack.
Liam: Maybe your ghost can haunt us. "Remember when you left me in hell?"
Laura: Good times.
Noelle: Or it'll just be me with the invisibility ring.
Matt: Thank you so much for coming and playing with us, Noelle.
Noelle: Thank you for having me. This has been awesome.
Matt: Yay. So guys, once again, you can check out Noelle. If you want to pimp your stuff real fast before you leave? Nimona!
Marisha: Look at that! And Lumberjanes!
Sam: And Lumberjanes.
Noelle: And Lumberjanes. And other things soon to be revealed.
Matt: Yeah, I'm excited. Well, thank you again. Guys, awesome job. We'll pick this up next week, and we'll see you guys then. Until then, is it Thursday yet? Good night. [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons. (heavy sigh) Every goddamn week. Anyway! Before we jump into the craziness of tonight's episode, let's get through some quick announcements, here! First and foremost, merch update. Laura, what do we got?
Laura: Well, those amazing David Mack posters that are only on sale-- well, okay, here's the thing. The signed ones are only available for one more day; they're going away tomorrow, forever and ever and ever, amen. After that, the not-signed version will be available for one more week, and then those are gone forever and ever, amen. So if you want them, you should get them. We also have a bunch of other shirts, like the Scanlan t-shirt, and the Vox Machina t-shirt, and every other t-shirt that are so soft and comfy and cozy. And the Slayer's Cake apron!
Matt: They're shipping soon, right?
Laura: Those will be shipping soon. Those will be shipping-- yeah, pretty soon. Pre-orders are still available right now. With the posters-- I'm going completely out of order-- with the signed ones, it's going to take a few extra weeks to ship those because we all have to sign them. Just be patient. We love you, and you will get them! The ones that aren't signed will get shipped out a little bit faster.
Sam: So one day for those.
Laura: One more day! (singing) One!
Marisha: Tell your friends! Tell your wives!
Matt: Perfect. Next update, we have Wednesday Club for next week.
Taliesin: Wednesday Club! We're in an interesting transition point for a lot of shows on Geek and Sundry, so we thought we'd have a card party. It's not as sexy as it sounds.
Matt: I disagree, sir!
Taliesin: Are you in? Are you down?
Matt: Yeah, I am!
Taliesin: We're opening card packs!
Matt: I'm going to be there for this!
Taliesin: Matt Mercer is going to join us for the Wednesday Club. We may have a few other guests. You want to come?
Laura: Can we all come and open card packs?
Liam: Will you also someday have a Pog episode?
Taliesin: We already did a Pog episode.
Liam: Shut your mouth!
Taliesin: We actually made it rain Pogs! It was great! You can come. We're going to have another Pog party!
Sam: You'll have lots of time after this, Liam!
Taliesin: Since the show is moving to its new time, 7:00-9:00pm, so we're going to be opening card packs. Talking about them, being really dumb and in our pajamas, and it's going to be great. Definitely Matt, and there's going to be a bunch of people showing up; it's going to be great!
Matt: That's so much of my childhood, you have no idea.
Liam: What kind of cards?
Taliesin: We're confirmed with some Jim Lee X-Men Series One. We're confirmed with some Superman vs. Doomsday cards.
Matt: Any Marvel Masterpiece?
Taliesin: We're working on Marvel Masterpiece. Unopened. We've got some Kirby cards, some classic Avengers cards. We're doing a little bit of everything. We've got a couple we're working on, though. Marvel Universe Series One of Three is what we're really working on.
Matt: I'll talk more about it on the show, but I have a long history with those cards. All righty! Thank you, Taliesin! Signal Boost, I believe we had our recent episode went up this week with our fantastic Ashley Johnson! (cheering)
Laura: It was so good!
Marisha: Boosting Taliesin!
Liam: Taliesin, you looked taller in that Signal Boost.
Taliesin: I was wearing smaller people on my feet, so it helped.
Matt: He learned from the last episode, if you stack them in a trenchcoat.
Liam: I just thought of four people that fit that bill and decided not to say any of their names.
Ashley: We had been planning for that episode, I remember talking to Marisha. I was like, I kind of want to boost Taliesin. We were like, everybody knows who Taliesin is.
Taliesin: Over half those facts at the beginning are actually true. Even if they've been goosed a bit.
Marisha: They're peppered in between. The beauty of that is you're not sure which ones are true and which ones aren't! They're back and forth. The bees are true.
Taliesin: The bees are true.
Matt: Two more people have to die before you eventually become the most interesting man in the world.
Taliesin: One now.
Matt: One now? That's right.
Taliesin: That's dark, but that's where we are.
Liam: The guy who's running Canada is very young, so we're going to have to wait a while.
Matt: Last but not least. Couple things. Talks Machina, every Tuesday, 7:00pm Pacific Time here on Twitch and Alpha with our fantastic Brian Foster, talk about this episode next-- no, not next week, we're off next week because it's 4th of July. We'll talk about this episode and next episode on Talks two weeks from now. We'll see you then. Today, the Sagas of Sundry: Dread went up. Which we're super excited about. For those who were here for International Tabletop day, Ivan van Norman ran me, Taliesin, Satine Phoenix, Amy Dallen, Amy Vorpahl through a very intense game of Dread, all being late 80s, early 90s high school kids going up to a cabin experience, and it was awesome. Well, we made a show! It was amazing.
Taliesin: It's so good!
Marisha: It's so good!
Matt: It's genuinely one of the coolest experiences I've ever had as a player in a game.
Marisha: I feel like we invented a new form of theater; it's weird.
Matt: If you have the opportunity, it's on Alpha. If you have Alpha, go check it out. If you don't have Alpha, there's a 60-day free trial code. What's the code?
Marisha: SHIPMATES.
Matt: SHIPMATES.
Taliesin: Only today, though. Today's the last day.
Marisha: Until tomorrow.
Matt: You have until tomorrow to try it out, so if you're like, "I don't want to pay for Alpha!" Well, you don't have to for 60 days now! Just put SHIPMATES in, and you'll be fine.
Taliesin: This is the first time I've ever said this out loud: Seriously, go check out Alpha for this show. It's worth it. It's amazing. Oh my god!
Marisha: Adam Lawson was the director. Sean and I were the producers.
Travis: Is there any nudity?
Taliesin: Yes, but probably not any you're going to be happy with. To be fair. I may make a post later on Twitter tomorrow or something to really talk about it. I have a lot of feelings about this show.
Liam: What's on your mind, Sam?
Sam: Nothing. The power's out at my house! Just distracted because I just came from my house, and the power was out, that's all. I'm worried about my kids. Are they going to have their little fans on tonight to keep them cool? Are they going to light candles in their room? I don't know!
Taliesin: Are they watching Twitch by candlelight?
Sam: They are definitely watching Twitch.
Laura: Can they have a pillow fort in the living room?
Sam: Maybe, if they can find the living room. It's dark!
Taliesin: Just hear the sound of a wine aerator in the background.
Sam: Oh yeah, they have their wine aerator. They each have their cell phones. They're okay. (laughter)
Sam: They aerate their milk.
Matt: That would be the worst sound. (bubbling milk sound) Anyway, that's enough of that, guys. Anyway. That's the end of our announcements. And as such, that brings us to tonight's episode of Critical Role. [music]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome back to Critical Role. Hope you liked our new intro, apparently. I guess they're having some tech issues trying to get the regular intro showing tonight. Little change for the evening. No biggie, mix it up a little bit. Anyway, so last we left off. Vox Machina, after discovering that the various siphon orbs, the one that was beneath Whitestone was one of many, and apparently were funneling magical energies from various arcane ley lines that exist across Exandria into some plane other than the Prime Material. Through research and discovery, you found that this plane was the Shadowfell. Upon traversing this barrier and dealing with some cultists of the Whispered One, you discovered that Delilah Briarwood was still alive, and that there was a city in the Shadowfell beyond the boundary of these siphons known as Thar Amphala, an ancient city that had seen an ancient battle, but much had been rebuilt and constructed. There, in the center of the town, was the dark tower called Entropis. Where, apparently, the Whispered One, Vecna, or something involved in a ritual was being completed. You began to make your way through this city, averting any sort of attention from most of the denizens in the sky and below. You squashed heads of a few cultists on the way, masqueraded as cultists, masqueraded as undead! Found the city itself shift strangely, using technology of the threshold crests that Syngorn uses, it transported itself out of the Shadowfell and somewhere else, where it began to snow. You made your way to the central tower, and deciding not to ascend it, took it to the ground with some Earthquake spells. However, due to the magical defenses of the tower top, where the rituals were being completed, it seems the top of the tower was untouched by the spells, and lowered itself to the rubble of where it once stood. You then mustered your forces, rode up to the top of the lip of what remains of Entropis and joined in battle against Delilah Briarwood, a death knight, and the physical form of Vecna, the Whispered One himself. However, the battle did not turn in your favor, and in the process of the battle--
Travis: That's debatable.
Laura: Is it?
Matt: In some degrees. Whether through bad luck or not fully understanding the scope of what you were up against, a number of you fell in battle, with one of them not being able to be restored, being Vax'ildan, who was reduced to dust by a Disintegration spell. Realizing that your fortunes were failing, with Grog banished to another dimension and only barely returning in time, you joined hands and Keyleth attempted to travel you out of the plane to safety, of which Vecna attempted to stop with a Counterspell, and Scanlan attempted to stop that Counterspell with his own Counterspell, like a bard is wont to do. So you successfully transported, grabbing the corpse of Delilah Briarwood, who Percival finished off with a shot to the head. You found yourselves, last we left off, emerging deep into a wooded forest in some unknown location within the Feywild. Upon arriving, and glancing about, to see that you're still mostly intact, clutching the no-longer-living corpse of Delilah behind you. Vax, not with you, and Vex, realizing, asked the question:
Laura: Where's Vax?
Sam: I walk up to her and I set down his armor and don't say anything.
Laura: What's this? Where is he?!
Sam: There's nothing left. He was obliterated.
Marisha: Disintegrated.
Laura: What?!
Marisha: I saw it happen, and then I saw it happen.
Laura: And we just left him there?!
Marisha: No, we brought--
Taliesin: We brought everything we could.
Laura: Oh god! No!
Taliesin: I'm so sorry.
Laura: I was brought back and his soul is just-- where?
Marisha: That's the ultimate question, isn't it?
Laura: Can you bring him back?
Ashley: I don't know if I can.
Taliesin: Can you, Keyleth?
Marisha: I've never done this before.
Laura: I go over and gather up all of his armor and start hugging it to myself.
Marisha: I recently learned a spell that I could attempt, but it's nothing I've tried before, and it's expensive, and I'm already terrified of the fate and the hell that I might have brought him in his final moments.
Travis: Well, what is it?
Marisha: I think he saw himself die. I think. I'm so sorry.
Laura: What are you talking about?
Marisha: I cast Foresight on him. And I think there was a thing for a second. I haven't thought of those ramifications of something like that before. I think he was held and there was nothing he could do. What if that happened? What if he saw himself die?
Taliesin: Then it doesn't matter yet, until we bring him back.
Travis: Only matters what we do next, right?
Taliesin: Let's bring him back.
Travis: What's this new spell you were talking about?
Marisha: I need 25,000 gold pieces worth of diamonds.
Travis: What?
Marisha: I need 25--
Laura: Not just gold, you need diamonds?
Taliesin: Where are we?
Laura: I don't have-- I don't have that!
Marisha: We're in the Feywild.
Taliesin: We can find it, then.
Matt: As you look around at this point, for the first time really taking in the surroundings around you, you find yourself deep in a shaded, thick wood, where most of the leaves here are wide and triangular in shape. Where you expect to see deep greens, instead you see blues and purples. You see the tips eventually coming to a midnight blue at the edge. There's a very faint mist that has gathered across the ground that stands about knee-height. The ground beneath you seems to have a somewhat crunchy sponginess to it with each step, though you cannot see where your feet actually touch the ground.
Sam: Is it all diamonds?
Matt: It is not all diamonds. You do hear the ever-present echoing distant hooting of owls. (owl hooting)
Taliesin: Well, now we know what to do. We were too late, and we have seen what we're up against, and now we need to focus. We can't let it be over yet. We need to focus. We're going to find these diamonds.
Laura: Was it her? Or was it Vecna?
Sam: It--
Taliesin: Grog? Can you put her in the bag? And I toss him the body.
Matt: As the body of Delilah Briarwood, the head still scattered and divided right around the forehead, this giant cleft of her skull hemisphere is gone. Whatever matter was once there has loosely fallen out as she's been dragged from one location. You do see the left eye, which is not human, it seems, in appearance. The white is instead a sickly greenish-yellow, and the pupil is a cat-like slit of black, surrounded by a thin, greenish-blue tint. As soon as you look down and see the face, the eye which just looks upward at nothing, the dead body still, the eye twitches and shifts to look at you.
Travis: Oh! (unhappy humming) Her fucking eye is still moving.
Ashley: Should we take it out?
Sam: Yes. It could be Vecna, watching us.
Travis: Does it look reptilian?
Laura: Can you put it in a bag or something? Cover it up?
Sam: Wait, can I take a closer look at it and see if I can, I don't know, identify it somehow?
Matt: Do you have an Identify spell?
Sam: No, but can I just see?
Matt: Make an arcana check.
Sam: Sure. Two! Plus five.
Matt: As you get down close to glance at the rather disturbingly bloodied face of Delilah Briarwood, the eye shifts back towards you. The closer you get, you watch as the thinning slit of the pupil seems to widen and focus on you. It's an unsettling presence. As you try and concentrate to see if there's any immediate signs of whether it be sigils or arcane marks that would mark it to be more of a magically enchanted object than an actual organic eye, nothing comes to mind other than the fact that it seems to be very intent on studying you back.
Sam: Can I try to remove it from the ocular cavity?
Matt: Using your fingers?
Sam: Yeah. My tiny, ocular hands.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Sam: Nine.
Matt: Okay, you (slurping).
Sam: I can inspire myself, I suppose.
Matt: If you want to. Up to you. How many more bardic inspirations do you have after the battle?
Sam: Two, right? I didn't Cutting Words anyone. Those count as inspiration, right?
Matt: Yeah. Your fingers are now knuckle-deep in Delilah Briarwood's socket.
Sam: I'll inspire myself just to give it a serious try. That's plus ten, so that's a 19 plus, I guess, three for Jack of All Trades?
Matt: If you're not trained in it, then yeah.
Sam: 22.
Matt: You begin humming your favorite eye-pulling song under your breath and with a horrible sucking sound, you pull the eye from her socket, leaving this trail of dark black and red viscera that dangles from it loosely. As you pull it free, whatever attached the eye to it seems to burn off and fall, leaving just the circular socket. I also need you to roll a wisdom saving throw.
Sam: Oh no! Insta-death.
Travis: You're fine.
Sam: No, I'm not. Oh, is this magic?
Matt: It's not a magic spell, I'd say it's a magic effect, yeah.
Sam: Do I get advantage?
Matt: I'll say, as a gnome, for this, yes, you would.
Sam: Way better, but still terrible. 12!
Laura: How bad was your first one?
Sam: A one!
Matt: So you watch as Scanlan pulls this eye out and looks at it for a second. For you, it's less of an actual voice, but these images come to your mind of all the terrible things that have happened in your life: the loss of your mother, the near-loss of Kaylie, the loss of your friends, every person that's ever mattered to you, you've seen slain before you or heard about. You could stop that from ever happening again. All the answers you could have. You would have the power to prevent any of that from ever happening again. And it's so simple. It's so simple!
Laura: Could we smack the eye out of his hand?
Matt: As this is happening, you watch as he's looking at it and this hand goes up and starts clawing into his own eye socket.
Taliesin: I'm going to use every dex I have. I'm going to slap fucking hard.
Matt: Dex isn't going to help you so much as it's going to be a strength thing. Go ahead and make an athletics check. For you, for this, this would be an acrobatics to try and dodge out of the way.
Taliesin: Strength check?
Matt: Athletics.
Taliesin: Oh, athletics, that's better.
Matt: You're trying to slap it out of his grasp.
Sam: 13.
Taliesin: 10.
Matt: You slap and the hand pulls back a little bit and he yanks it back. You can see a trail of blood beginning to pool out of the corner of the eye.
Ashley: Can I try to grab his hand and slap him across the face?
Matt: Yeah. This is the last chance anybody has to try and do this or Scanlan loses an eye. We're going into Event Horizon moment, here. Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Ashley: 27.
Matt: Roll an acrobatics check.
Sam: It's the same thing, so it's 13.
Matt: As his fingers are digging into the socket and the other eye's just staring at this piercing circular gaze in his grasp in his right. You see the blood beginning to trail down his face in two different places. He's gotten his fingers partway behind his own eye. You rush up and grab him by the wrist, put your other hand right at the front of his face, pushing his nose and cheek up. You pull it back and you watch as, from behind the eyelid, his fingers slip out. He's fighting it with all his might. As you pull back, as soon as you get it free, with your other hand, you backhand. You knock the eye out of his other hand, and it goes (falling noise) and disappears beneath the mist.
Laura: Can we see where it landed?
Taliesin: Yeah, I'm going to follow the eye.
Marisha: Do not touch it, Percy!
Sam: Can I see?
Matt: The throbbing pain, and you're not able to focus in this eye at the time. You're effectively unable to see out of this eye really well until your next long rest. It's pretty damaged just from the brief grabbing. You could try to heal him, if you want. Your mind comes back to you for a minute. You're like, "What the fuck is wrong with me?!"
Travis: What were you doing?!
Sam: It was speaking to me.
Ashley: What did it say?
Sam: I don't exactly remember, but it had some really strong arguments.
Travis: Was it telling you to pull your own fucking eye out?
Sam: I guess, yeah. It was offering me things. It was telling me it could help. I've never felt that way before. It was amazing.
Travis: Ew. Where did it go?
Matt: You said you were going to look in the mist for it?
Laura: No, I'm not. Just holding onto--
Matt: The remains of Vax.
Marisha: Keyleth goes over to Vex and curls up into her.
Matt: 14. As you dive over in the direction of where you think you saw it go, the mist is thick, and you start pushing it away, and there is very dense underbrush and foliage that is gathered here that created the crunchy floor. Glancing through and pushing around, there's no sign of the eye.
Taliesin: I need help finding it. I need help! Be very careful.
Travis: I come over and start helping him look.
Taliesin: I've got the flashlight box out, and I'm going to try and use this as a container if we find it.
Matt: Okay. You're not using the actual light, you're using the box? The thickness in the mist right now, the light would probably hinder your search than help it.
Taliesin: Keyleth, can you thin this? We need to see. Make the mist go away.
Marisha: What?
Taliesin: (louder) Can you make the mist go away?
Marisha: I don't know.
Sam: Can you try?
Marisha: I half-heartedly do a Gust cantrip while still sitting next to Vex.
Matt: You watch as some of the mist dissipates and very quickly begins to roll back. The mist here is almost aggressive in its need to fill the space. Like a lot of things in the Feywild, it almost has its own sense of nature and purpose. It's not going to let someone push itself back if it wishes to exist on the forest floor. As you're rushing in to help, because you've already made the investigation check and the mist is rolling in, and based on his inability to find it, you're not even quite sure where it landed. Make your own investigation check, but you're at disadvantage.
Travis: Okay. Hey, that's high! That's not. Three.
Matt: Okay. Over the next three or four minutes, as you guys pat through and tear roots apart and sections of the forest floor, there is no sign of where the eye landed.
Ashley: If I were to cast Locate Object, would that work?
Matt: You can certainly try.
Ashley: Okay!
Matt: You go over and grab your holy symbol and kneel to the ground, focus on whatever this dark relic is that seems to have plagued you in two different ways in the past ten minutes. As you concentrate, you feel the divine light of Sarenrae come and restore warmth from the center of this cold forest. You feel the energy flow through you and the image of her face descending from above, her mouth opening and she exhales this breath over you, and as it does, you suddenly can clarify your visual perception on this object. You know exactly the direction it is. You start walking in that direction. You push past Grog and push past Percival. You find a portion of the ground and you look, and it's not there, but you know it's that direction.
Ashley: I think I've located it. I can't see it, but I know what direction it's in.
Sam: Is it beneath the ground? Is it invisible?
Ashley: I don't know. So it seems like it's in the ground or it's been moved.
Matt: Trying to push aside the mist in the area, and it's all closed in now. The Gust cantrip held back what it could while you cast the spell.
Marisha: I seem them moving in that direction, and once again, poof for them.
Matt: The mist separates again. You look, and you can see the direction where it would be, and as you glance over and focus your attention, it looks like between two of the roots, there's a portion of fresh dirt.
Sam: It burrowed!
Ashley: Okay, can I start digging?
Matt: You start scooping in.
Taliesin: I have the box out, ready.
Matt: About three inches down, you scoop down and pull up a big handful of moist dirt and then there, you watch as some of it falls away. You see the wet exterior of the greenish-yellow eyeball. It began to burrow. You see it glancing about. The eye is flickering around like it's rapidly trying to find a way out.
Ashley: I put it in the box.
Matt: You close the box.
Sam: I don't trust that thing.
Taliesin: The burrowing eyeball? Are you sure?! (laughter)
Travis: Holy shit!
Sam: I mean, I don't trust it near us.
Ashley: That's my favorite thing you've ever said.
Sam: Percy, I think you need to give it to me to hold.
Taliesin: I think that's a terrible idea.
Sam: No, I can take care of it better than you.
Taliesin: What makes you think that?
Sam: Just give it to me. Trust me.
Taliesin: You're bleeding out your eye right now!
Sam: I want revenge on this eye. Give it to me so I can get revenge!
Ashley: Hold on. I cast Cure Wounds for his eye.
Matt: Yeah. The eye wasn't removed from the socket, but the damage that was around it seems to have healed up from the mild Cure Wounds. There's still the drying blood that has pooled down the cheek, but it appears that most of the initial damage has been sealed.
Ashley: Do you want me to hold it?
Taliesin: I kind of want you to hold it.
Sam: I think I should hold it.
Ashley: I feel like I'm going to hold onto it in case it tries to attach itself to you again and you pull out your eyeball again.
Taliesin: Yes, and that thing should be difficult to get out of. It it is a big case.
Sam: What if it can still hear us? Sense where we are?
Travis: It's an eyeball; it doesn't have ears.
Sam: That is true. That is a very good point.
Taliesin: Well, if we're really amused by it, we just set off the light crystal that's in there and let it blind itself in there for a while. That would be funny. We have bigger problems. Diamonds. And Delilah.
Travis: Oh yeah, she still goes in the bag, right?
Taliesin: Oh, yeah. We're going to want to have a word with her later.
Marisha: Even beyond the diamonds.
Taliesin: Vex. Vex. He needs you here, now. I need you here. We're not done. This is not over yet. We are in trouble. We need to find a city. The two of you, I need both of you here.
Laura: Of course, darling.
Marisha: This was supposed to be a weekend trip.
Taliesin: Nothing is ever what it's supposed to be.
Marisha: Just a weekend trip.
Taliesin: I know. Let's get this done.
Marisha: Even after we find 25,000 gold pieces worth of diamonds, I've never brought anyone back before, and this is versus the Raven Queen. How do we know if his soul is even available for return?
Taliesin: How do we know that she is against us? This was Vecna. She may still be with us.
Laura: I can't believe I left his soul over there, alone.
Ashley: We didn't.
Laura: I did. I came back.
Taliesin: We're not done.
Marisha: Maybe we should talk to the Raven Queen.
Travis: How do you do that?
Laura: There's a temple in Vasselheim, and there's a temple in Whitestone.
Marisha: Same way that he did.
Taliesin: We need to find diamonds. Can we find them while we're here? Can we find them where we are?
Laura: I don't know how you find diamonds in the Feywild.
Travis: Percy, don't you know the Feywild?
Taliesin: Where are we?
Travis: Do we see any structures off in the distance, or is it all just overgrowth?
Matt: You are in the center, or at least completely surrounded by enclosed, dense, bluish-purple forest. You cannot see above the canopy. What little bit of light is visible seems to be from a bioluminescence beneath the fog. As you pushed below, you could see what appeared to be bits of fungus that grew out of the forest floor. The slowly dying off and decomposing leaves and fallen branches. It's almost like this underlit glow, but you don't see any structures, no signs of civilization. You have no idea where you are. You've not been to this part of the Feywild.
Marisha: Maybe our werewolf friends are still around.
Travis: Yeah, I was going to say I have a terrible idea. I think they wanted to leave, so what if they know of some hidden treasure trove around here? That could, you know, tit for tit.
Laura: I might be able to buy diamonds, as well. If we go to a city.
Sam: If we rest, I may be able to make them.
Laura: 25,000 gold worth of diamonds.
Sam: How big is that?
Laura: It could be a lot of smaller diamonds.
Sam: But how big? How many?
Laura: I'll pull out one diamond that I have that's worth 1,500 gold.
Taliesin: I feel within a tinker theory is how figuring out how much diamonds--
Laura: We would need 20 more of these.
Matt: It can range based on the purity of the diamond, how well it's been cut. You can make an intelligence check, if you'd like.
Taliesin: That'll do. I feel like this would be in the wheelhouse.
Laura: I have to blow my nose again.
Taliesin: God, I am rolling just the worst. 13.
Matt: 13. I mean, that's a lot of diamonds. That can range, depending on the purity and where in the world they're found. There's a standard amount when it comes to magic practices that aren't tailored to the cultural variations of cost. You couldn't ask somebody, "Sell me these diamonds, but for six times the cost," you know. It wouldn't help the spell occur. That's the general equivalent to the amount of diamonds that are consumed required for his spell. You've never seen that many diamonds in one place.
Marisha: We don't have a body, so we're basically making a diamond Vax.
Taliesin: I know where there are diamonds.
Laura: Where?
Sam: I can make them. We just need an animal.
Ashley: How much can you make?
Sam: As much as the animal.
Travis: Ooh, the bigger the animal, the bigger the diamonds?
Marisha: I can make animals.
Sam: I mean, I know you're grieving, but we could give Trinket up for this.
Marisha: I can make animals.
Laura: Scanlan.
Sam: It was worth a try.
Laura: You're such a shithead.
Taliesin: There is a second thought, if this does not go well. Which was-- there was one place where we saw that many diamonds in one place before: Thordak.
Travis: Surely they've cleaned all that up by now, right?
Taliesin: Yes, but not everything left the city. There's enough there. It didn't get randomly distributed. I'm sure that they have it, and I'm sure that we can make a deal.
Travis: Take a loan?
Taliesin: I have something worth money.
Travis: Was it a bad idea?
Sam: Taking out a loan?
Travis: Yeah!
Sam: To buy diamonds?
Laura: We have gold. We have plenty of gold.
Marisha: What did Kraghammer mine? What was their deal?
Matt: All sorts of things. Many precious metals, gems, stone that was used for crafting, hewing into various forms of masonry. Anything that could be reaped from beneath the Cliffkeep Mountains, that's what Kraghammer specialized in.
Marisha: What if we go to a mine? We could go straight to a source, buy direct?
Laura: We could go to Kraghammer and buy, or we could try doing what Scanlan said.
Sam: We could try mine first, and if it doesn't work-- but I need to rest. I can't do anything today.
Laura: Should we get back to our world?
Taliesin: We go to Kraghammer, rest there.
Marisha: We can't. We have to sleep before, unless there's a portal nearby that we can get through.
Laura: Did you send us to the pond? I thought you took us to the pond.
Marisha: It has to be nearby. Plane Shift is general. I pick an area, and it gambles where it's going to drop us.
Matt: And did you specify the location?
Marisha: I did! I said the Shademirk Bog and the pond, the glade. I found the page in my notes and rambled all the names off very quickly in a panic.
Matt: What's interesting, when last you were in the Shademirk, you recall this being a very oil-thickened forest.
Laura: Oh, you took us to where Saundor was. You didn't take us to the pond with the chick?
Matt: Correct, this is the Shademirk. This is where you battled with Saundor. However, the forest you're in now, if this is indeed the same location, it seems to have vastly recovered from the corruption that Saundor's presence gave, which is why it's both unfamiliar to you and not as oppressive as the last time you visited.
Marisha: Didn't we-- nope. I Plane Shifted us out.
Laura: We have to spend the night here. Vecna's in our world.
Taliesin: Vecna's in a box.
Laura: How much power does he get from that eye?
Taliesin: More than all of us combined, I'd imagine.
Travis: If it burrows in the ground, it can't break out of the box, right?
Taliesin: I don't know.
Laura: Open the box and see what it's doing.
Taliesin: We can look in the box without.
Sam: Give it to me. I'll take care of it. I'll send it away to a place where only I can get it.
Ashley: Can I take a peek?
Matt: Yeah, you open it up. You hold it back and hold the door open.
Taliesin: There's a glass thing so we can look through the glass.
Matt: Immediately, glancing in, you see it staring right back at you.
Marisha: (horrified wail)
Laura: Don't send it to another plane; that's very fucking weird.
Sam: But it's a personal plane. It's my plane.
Laura: Are you sure nobody else can ever get into it?
Sam: I am not.
Laura: Then no.
Sam: I don't know how this works. My daughter taught me this spell; I've never used it before.
Laura: Then, fuck it, we're not doing it.
Sam: It goes into a little pocket dimension! Is what she told me. I don't even know what that means!
Laura: That's really weird.
Taliesin: What if it's the Vecna dimension?
Sam: Here, let's try something. Just give me something, I'll send it there now. I don't know what that'll do.
Ashley: How will we know it's there?
Sam: Give me Trinket.
Laura: No! Stop it!
Sam: I can't do Trinket. It has to be less than five pounds.
Travis: Less than five pounds?
Sam: Yes.
Ashley: It has to be something small?
Sam: Yeah.
Marisha: No! No, don't consider it Pike, no!
Sam: Give me anything.
Travis: Do you want a pair of manacles?
Sam: Sure!
Travis: Here's a pair of manacles.
Sam: All right. I will use Wrist Pocket!
Matt: You watch as he holds the manacles and does a flourish with his hand and they vanish from sight.
Ashley: How do you know if they're there?
Sam: I don't know where they are! I literally have no idea, but watch this!
Matt: They seem to apparate immediately into his grasp.
Sam: I don't know how I even do that!
Laura: Cool. We're not using a random-ass magic trick on an eyeball.
Ashley: Did you just point at me and tell me to come to you so you can make me disappear and come back?
Sam: No! The eye! I can get rid of the eye!
Ashley: No, it makes me nervous, Scanlan. I want to keep our... eyes on it. (laughter)
Ashley: Fuck off!
Sam: Maybe we should vote on this. Should we give it to me? Who says aye?
Taliesin: You can buy my vote.
Sam: I don't have that much.
Taliesin: Yes, you do. You can buy my vote.
Sam: I don't have enough.
Laura: Are there any animals around?
Matt: Make a nature check.
Laura: Natural 20.
Matt: You're familiar with forests, definitely, and you can see telltale signs of scurrying, telltale signs of track marks in the ground, feces left behind by living creatures. You do see signs of things that live throughout these forests everywhere.
Laura: Anything that looks like it would be the size of an adult deer or something?
Travis: Doe, a deer? A female deer?
Laura: I'm thinking a male deer. Yes, a stag. A white stag. Any stag, really, just an animal that's big.
Matt: You see a number of tracks that would resemble creatures of that size or larger. Some seem bear-like, some seem larger than that, though similar claws and heavy footprints. Some that are smaller and skittery. You see there was a small cluster of what might be deer-like creatures, but you're not quite sure what the tracks are. There's plenty of life that wanders through here. Apparently, since you've arrived, none that seem bold enough to approach you too closely in this clustered clearing you're in. Can't even call it a clearing, because you maybe have a total of ten feet you're all crammed into at this time.
Travis: If we howl, right?
Ashley: Are we down?
Laura: Yeah, we haven't healed since--
Taliesin: We are wrecked.
Ashley: How's everybody doing?
Laura: I'm low.
Sam: Aren't you low, Pike? Like 11 or something.
Laura: I mean, we're about to rest. You're probably super low.
Ashley: I think am, let's see if I wrote it down here. Oh, yeah! I forgot! I'm almost dead.
Laura: Trinket's unconscious still in my necklace.
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: He's unconscious. I pop him out, if you're going to heal us.
Matt: (magic noise)
Travis: Aw, buddy.
Laura: I start crying again.
Sam: I turn him into diamonds.
Laura: You dick! You're such an asshole.
Matt: All right, so what are you guys doing?
Laura: Pike's going to heal us.
Taliesin: Heal and sleep.
Laura: I'm going to kill something.
Taliesin: Let Keyleth make something big.
Matt: What are you casting, Pike?
Ashley: Mass Cure Wounds.
Matt: Mass Cure Wounds? All right, go for it.
Laura: Will it work on a magical animal, or does it have to be a real animal?
Sam: No, it can work on anything, I think. I've never turned anything into diamonds.
Travis: If I had that, I'd be doing that all the time.
Sam: You're right. In retrospect, I should have been doing this literally every day. I just learned the spell a week ago.
Travis: Why are you dealing drugs? Just be like boop!
Sam: Yeah, but look at this! It's gone! It's back! Cool, right?
Travis: And think how useful that will come in the bedroom. Manacles! Nobody? Cool.
Laura: I was like, pocket dimension?
Ashley: You all heal 31 points. It's something.
Marisha: 31? All of us?
Matt: Everyone healed 31. Trinket gets up, (bear grumbling).
Laura: Yeah. Hey, Trink.
Sam: You guys need more healing? I could try to give us more.
Laura: We're going to rest. Are we safe to leave fucking-- there's nothing we can do, at this point-- to leave Vecna in the world. We can't do anything!
Taliesin: We have one problem at a time. We have Delilah, and we will deal with--
Marisha: What do you want to do with Delilah?
Matt: She's been stuffed into the Bag of Holding.
Taliesin: We're going to talk to her. We're going to see what we can learn. We're going to be very thoughtful about what we talk to her about, and we're going to find a way of making sure that this is the last time we put her in the ground. By hook or by crook.
Laura: Don't cry on camera and then have to blow your nose a bunch!
Sam: She says to a nearby tree.
Ashley: Should we try killing an animal and seeing how many diamonds you get out of it?
Sam: I can't try anything today.
Laura: Okay, we have to wait.
Taliesin: Tomorrow, we go to Kraghammer, we make an animal.
Laura: We don't have the mansion tonight.
Sam: No.
Ashley: Do you want to Speak with Dead before bed, or do you want to sleep on it?
Travis: We don't need the mansion; I got all my hit points. I'm good.
Taliesin: I don't think I'm in the right mind to even think of anything to say to her that isn't just rage, at the moment.
Laura: We need to get up in a tree. I don't know what's in this area. I saw some tracks that didn't look friendly.
Taliesin: Let's get up there.
Travis: Aren't these trees dangerous in their own right?
Taliesin: They seem like they've quieted down.
Laura: We healed this forest; it should thank us.
Travis: Okay. Did the bow talk to the trees or anything? Fenthras.
Matt: Interesting. With the natural 20 nature check you made earlier: there is, I don't want to say, not a kinship, but a sense of understanding between you and the surrounding forest. It's hard to explain, and you haven't really had this sense before; this is more a Keyleth territory of having this connection with nature. But it's because you wield Fenthras and were responsible in a large way for cleansing this landscape, that as you begin to approach and look for trees for a place to sleep, you watch as one tree, the branches seem to bend down to form a small ladder. You watch as the boughs above separate and create an easy-to-lay-down cluster of branches and leaves.
Taliesin: Small miracles.
Marisha: They like us now.
Laura: Thank you.
Travis: You guys crash; I'll take first watch.
Laura: I'm going to pull the armor up so we can keep it. Did you want--
Marisha: Yeah. We cuddle between the armor.
Taliesin: That's weird. I'm not getting into it.
Marisha: That's the saddest thing.
Matt: That's pretty sad. All right. The rest of you find yourselves to a night's rest, seemingly protected for the time being by the surrounding Shademirk Forest, no longer the Shademirk Bog. And unconsciousness takes you, Grog taking first watch. Now, I'm going to ask you guys, if you wouldn't mind, to step into the kitchen.
Travis: What, me?
Sam: Everybody but Grog?
Matt: Everybody but Liam.
Laura: Oh fuck me running. We're jacking off.
Marisha: Jacking off. Oh man.
Ashley: No, I feel like you're going to make plans.
Laura: What are you going to do while we're not in here?
Travis: Go.
Sam: A whole new show.
Liam: Spin-off.
Matt: All right, we're getting Liam back in here. Shoo. No, we'll probably have you back in. Getting tangled?
Marisha: Don't die forever.
Matt: We'll wait for them to leave the room. Vax'ildan. As your eyes dart back and forth, glancing upward at the sky above, snow hitting and stinging your paralyzed eyes, you see the terrible lich above you, a flash of green, then darkness. Floating without weight, without temperature. You glance around in the surrounding shadow and cannot see anything; your hands before you, nothing. It is just void, darkness. You will yourself to see something, anything, and in an instant, you begin to glow. Your form becomes visible around you. You can now see your body, nude and held aloft in this dark space, emanating this soft, vibrant orangish-white light. As the light begins to emanate and cast away the darkness, you also see what appears to be a tangling of some sort of web: strands of silk that also begin to glow with a similar light as to your form that holds you tightly in your position. You struggle, but you're held firm. You think you yell out, but as you glance upward to shout for help, you see the shadows now curl back to reveal the familiar sight of a massive white porcelain woman's face. Eyeless, yet staring straight at, if not through you. Her presence, imposing as it may be, soothes you as her giant hand, larger than a house, a palace, it seems, almost, emerges from below and gives you a ground to step on, your feet finding purchase in the center of her dark palm. As your feet touch her palm, the silk web seems to loosen. You cast off the threads and fall to your hands and knees. You take a moment, and you hear that soft voice once more. "My champion, you return to me and tear a swath through the tapestry. Please, be calm. My sight can pierce many veils, but you've been hidden from my sight in recent days, and I am worried what foulness has turned its intent upon us. Now, here you come to me, your very thread frayed and soul transitioning. An unexpected destiny for my beautiful fate-touched." One of her fingers curls through your hair at the back of your head. "Tell me what you have seen."
Liam: Your enemy.
Matt: "I have many enemies."
Liam: Vecna.
Matt: "What does this Vecna intend?"
Liam: He's come... he's come back to our world. My home. My family is in danger. The world is in danger.
Matt: "How so? How can one man be this dangerous? What does he intend? What have you learned?"
Liam: I don't know.
Matt: "I wonder why he guards my sight. Well." She goes into quiet contemplation for a moment. You see the strands of hair that emanate from the sides of the mask slowly shifting like waves on an ocean. "This Vecna comes to your world to be a king?"
Liam: That or grind us all into dust.
Matt: "This is historical. Mortals continuously intend to find others to grind into dust. If this being has the power to block my sight, he has power beyond a mortal realm. Did you see anything? Anything else?"
Liam: We traveled to the Shadowfell. There was a tower, and he had servants. He had powerful servants. A woman that we've fought before, and another, a man, a creature. I don't know. With a blade, a dark blade. And he was too powerful for us. He crushed us.
Matt: "And in your short spark with him, you learned nothing more of his plan? No hint of what he's plotting?"
Liam: He threw me to the ground the first second he laid his eye on me. He murdered my sister. I thought we had come to an arrangement.
Matt: "We have."
Liam: Where is my sister?
Matt: "She lives, still. She is beyond my influence. However, your body is ash, and your soul is steeped in the divine energies that uphold the paths between life and death. You've earned your eternal rest." The mask begins to recede into the darkness.
Liam: No. No! Come back. No! I will not leave them behind. I want to help them, still.
Matt: The faint gray of the mask that begins to fade into shadow stops and comes back even brighter, vibrant, almost. You sense the mystery of the Raven Queen shift from this entity that dodges and weaves to instead a pillar of power of life and death that is both awe-striking and awe-fearing. And for a moment, you realize how small you are in her presence. "You truly see, to seek this, to bring it to its end?"
Liam: Whatever it takes.
Matt: "Your resolve is admirable. Your love of your chosen family is vibrant. What I offer you is the power to see this conflict through to its end. You will be briefly beyond the very grasp of death, and I will hold back any attempt for you to transition. You will be a bulwark of my power in cold flesh, walking between heartbeats, unstoppable. You will have the power to walk once more with Vox Machina, with your sister, with your Keyleth. And should you use this power wisely, perhaps save Exandria, save them, save her. But when it's done and this foul, undying king lies dead or sealed, you will return to me, my champion, evermore." The imposing image now shifts and changes. In an instant, the giant being is now the simple woman, the mask you once saw removed now missing. And there, the somewhat sad, beautiful pale face of the Raven Queen as she steps forward. The silence is broken by the sounds of her footsteps across nothing. (footsteps) Her hand comes up. Warm. You weren't expecting, as it traces across your brow and curves across to your chin and pulls it up. "Do you accept my gift?"
Liam: You have such loneliness in your eyes.
Matt: "Perhaps you will keep me company when you come back to me. Do you accept?"
Liam: I do.
Matt: "Then so be it. You, whose nature bucks destiny, my beautiful thing. Go. Share what you have shared with me with others like me. Take what you can learn of this Vecna's plans, for if he can block his intent from one, who knows what he plots against the other powers beyond the gate? Learn from them. Ask them. You have my blessing. They have theirs to give, as well, and they may be all that stands between the ruin of this world and you. Let their blessings turn the tides, Vax'ildan. But use your time wisely, for corruption like this waits for no one. Now." She pulls your head down and kisses you on the forehead and brings your head close to hers, and you hear a voice whisper right into your ear, ever so faintly. "Wake up!" We need to go ahead and retrieve the rest of the cast now, if you wouldn't mind stepping aside.
Liam: Sure.
Matt: Thank you. (sighs, laughs) That's interesting. I'm here in silence. How creepy is this? I never get to talk with you guys at the table by myself. I don't even know what to do. Oh, they enter now. (laughs) Welcome back! Come, have a seat! Plug in!
Travis: Why did you go so far away?
Matt: Jack in.
Sam: By the way, audience, Travis pointed out as we left, they might not know what we were talking about when we all said, "oh, we're going to jack off now." It means unplug our microphone cords.
Matt: Oh yeah, that's actually a pretty good--
Sam: We're not--
Travis: Performing illicit acts.
Taliesin: I am, but everyone else isn't.
Matt: To each their own, I suppose.
Taliesin: That's the hard part.
Sam: Why was Liam crying in the hallway?
Matt: (laughs)
Taliesin: Sam's scamming you.
Laura: Jacking in.
Sam: Jacking in.
Ashley: What happened?
Matt: All right.
Sam: I can verify that none of us listened or read anything about what just happened. We were jacking off the whole time. (laughter)
Taliesin: We had to hide at the other end of the building, man. That was nuts.
Matt: So as you make your watch. Who's making second watch?
Travis: I'll take both.
Taliesin: No.
Laura: No.
Sam: You need to rest.
Travis: I don't, boo.
Laura: Yeah, you do. You need to sleep.
Marisha: You don't want to be exhausted.
Sam: You've got to get your spells back, man.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: How long does he have to rest so he's not exhausted?
Matt: Long rest.
Taliesin: These are all long rests. We're all getting long rests. I'll take second watch.
Travis: I'm already exhausted. I frenzied last.
Matt: Yeah, so if you don't rest, you don't get rid of that point of exhaustion.
Travis: We've all learned what happens when I get two points of exhaustion. Good things.
Taliesin: Vecna comes back, and we all die.
Laura: Vecna is back.
Matt: All right, so Percival, second watch? Perception check.
Taliesin: That'll do. That's a 21.
Matt: Okay. Your watch continues without issue. Final watch is?
Ashley: I'll take it.
Matt: Pike. Final watch. Perception check.
Ashley: 19.
Matt: 19, okay. While there is no real change from day to night in the Feywild, it's in that perpetual nearly dusk, sunset, purple-orange skyline, which you can see elements of creeping through since you're higher up in the brush of the forest. You do hear the shifting of sounds. The evening owl hooting has changed to more gentle bird chirps and sounds that would usually befit birds that lead to morning to you. Whether that be the forest itself, its natural cycle, or it altering to fit your cycle of sleep. At the end of your watch-- you've had your full rest, but are still a little groggy, you hear what sounds like the crushing of leaves on the ground below you.
Ashley: I'm going to try to hop up and hide in the tree. I guess I'm looking awake in the tree.
Matt: Okay. You're up in the tree, still. You glance down.
Ashley: I'm going to keep watching.
Matt: You see a humanoid figure emerge from one of the nearby trees. Pale, nude.
Sam: (whispering) Get on that. (laughter)
Matt: Long, dark black hair. Groggily stepping into the glade where you just were.
Marisha: Is this your nymph?
Matt: It's a familiar figure.
Travis: Long, dark black hair? Pale?
Ashley: I run down from the tree.
Sam: It's Powder from the movie Powder.
Laura: Wait! Vax? I don't know. I'm asleep.
Marisha: We're asleep?
Matt: You crawl down.
Laura: What the fuck?
Ashley: I don't want him to see me.
Matt: Okay. Make a stealth check.
Sam: What has happened?
Ashley: Oh. 22.
Matt: 22. (laughs) Passive wisdom. As you carefully stay in the tree, you shake your head a bit, wandering into this opening here, not quite sure where you are as your senses are coming to, and you hear this slight scraping of something against bark. You immediately glance up and can see the small shine of a silver-and-brass set of armor as a tiny gnome is currently held up into the boughs of a tree.
Liam: Pickle?
Ashley: Stringbean?
Liam: Hi.
Ashley: Hi.
Liam: Where are we?
Ashley: We're in the Feywild. Where did you just come from?
Liam: I'm not entirely sure. I died. Did you know that?
Ashley: I did know that. We're trying to figure out how to save you.
Liam: What are you going to do?
Ashley: I don't know.
Liam: Sorry, I'm a little confused.
Ashley: That's okay.
Matt: The naturally sensitive ears, even in a sleeping state, that are Vex's, being the wild hunter you are, you hear a suddenly loud voice below that catches your attention, and your eyes flicker open.
Liam: Oh, fuck.
Laura: I get up and run down.
Matt: Darting down the tree rapidly. You watch as your sister falls into the foliage. There you see before you, your brother. Clothes-less.
Liam: I thought you died. I watched you die.
Laura: It's a trick! It's a trick. It's a trick of the Feywild.
Liam: I'm sorry I'm naked. Come here. I'm all right.
Matt: He's physical. He's cold. But he's there.
Laura: How are you here?
Liam: I don't know. I died.
Laura: I know. I didn't see it. I died, too.
Liam: But you're back.
Laura: So are you.
Liam: I'm so glad you're back. Don't cry.
Laura: I have your armor, and Keyleth-- are you all right? Are you really here?
Liam: Yeah, I'm really here.
Laura: Can I roll an insight check to make sure it's actually him?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: 20.
Matt: 20? Right as you've known your brother, there doesn't seem to be anything that tells you otherwise.
Ashley: Vax? Can I put my hand on his chest and see if I feel a heartbeat?
Matt: Now as you notice, now that you've lost focus from the fact that he's there, you can see where previously, there was a small, darkened spot on his chest that looked like a bruise of some kind that never quite went away, it has expanded a bit to be almost in the shape of wings across the front of the chest.
Ashley: Do I feel a heartbeat?
Matt: You listen closely. Make a medicine check.
Liam: What's the matter, Pike?
Ashley: That's a natural 20.
Matt: Oh shit. You get close, and to get close to where his heart is, you have to pull him down a bit.
Laura: There's a dick, and he's naked.
Liam: And she's really short.
Matt: With gnomish size right now, this is getting all sorts of weird.
Sam: Just come down.
Liam: Listen, I'm a cleric. It's nothing I haven't seen before.
Ashley: I see them all the time.
Sam: She's a doctor. It's fine.
Liam: You clear diseases.
Matt: You hear a very faint, slow heartbeat. It's there. (slow heartbeat)
Travis: Oh, it's that slow? That's like Lance Armstrong sleeping slow.
Sam: It's three BPM.
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: Does he sound weird?
Ashley: I can't figure it out. Sometimes when people are very athletic, they have very slow heart rates. You're very in shape. I'm going to climb up the tree and wake up Keyleth.
Laura: Tell her to bring the armor down.
Taliesin: Is anybody else waking up at this point?
Matt: Percival, you've got a pretty decent perception. At this point, with the sound and the shifting up and down the tree, and you guys are pretty alert by nature, you all start coming to.
Travis: I'm not perceptive at all.
Matt: Except for Grog. You're snoring.
Sam: I've got one perception. Oh, it's passive.
Matt: You're both asleep.
Ashley: Come down from the tree real quick.
Marisha: What's going on, Pike?
Ashley: Everything's okay.
Marisha: Pike, I need you to tell me before I come around this corner and see.
Ashley: I grab her hand. It's okay. Come with me.
Marisha: I am not coming with you until you tell me, Pike.
Ashley: Vax is at the bottom of the tree.
Taliesin: I grab my stuff, and I immediately run down the tree.
Marisha: I clutch onto Vax's armor.
Liam: I don't know.
Laura: She sent you back.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: She's my new favorite.
Taliesin: Vex, I need you to step away from him. Vax, if it is you, I hope you understand, and please, just for a second, thank you.
Liam: Fred, it's fine.
Taliesin: We're fighting the perversion of death itself. This is what I would do to torture us. Let's figure this out before we hand him back anything that's older than we are.
Liam: I hand the armor over to my sister.
Matt: The armor's still being clutched by Keyleth.
Liam: Oh, I didn't get it yet? I thought she put it in my hands. All right.
Taliesin: I'm keeping some distance.
Liam: You created a temple for me. You know who I serve.
Taliesin: Oh, I believe you're you. I just have to make sure what brought you back. I don't even know if you would know yet. Pike, does he have a heartbeat? Is he undead?
Ashley: He has a heartbeat.
Taliesin: Have you tried Turn Undead?
Liam: You would know if there's evil in my heart.
Taliesin: It's not your heart I'm worried about.
Liam: You would know if there's evil in my heart.
Laura: He's fine.
Liam: You would.
Taliesin: If he's not, you will not survive this.
Matt: You actually haven't seen Keyleth yet. She's still up in the tree.
Liam: I'm very confused.
Matt: It's okay.
Laura: They were talking up in the tree.
Taliesin: I'm sure it's going to be fine. Let's just take a minute and reflect on every terrible thing that's happened over the last 24 hours and be careful for once. I'm so sorry.
Liam: No. He's absolutely right. This is insane.
Taliesin: This is madness.
Ashley: Vax, what do you like to do with my hair?
Liam: (weak laughter)
Taliesin: It's him in there. Let's just make sure that it's him that is the rest of him.
Laura: What do you mean, he's a lich or something?
Taliesin: Could Vecna put Vax into something designed to hurt us? I believe it's Vax. It's the rest of it.
Ashley: Do you remember anything from when you woke up?
Liam: I remember hitting the ground, and I remember watching you die, and then it was her face again.
Laura: The Raven Queen?
Liam: Yeah.
Taliesin: What would happen to him if you tried to Turn Undead?
Liam: Go ahead.
Laura: What if he is, though?
Taliesin: If anything awful happens, he should survive it.
Liam: Go ahead. Get it out of the way. I'm not worried about it.
Ashley: I know, but what if it does something--
Liam: If I'm undead, then I shouldn't be here with you, all of you.
Taliesin: If you're dead, we'll just have to be extra careful, and we'll have a little more understanding of what's happening.
Liam: Where is Keyleth?
Taliesin: When has a random miracle ever just happened? If we work for a miracle, that's one thing, but this sort of thing doesn't end up on your doorstep. You know that.
Ashley: Vax?
Laura: Will he survive it? I don't think he is undead.
Ashley: I don't, either.
Laura: But I don't want him to be able to be turned against us. He looks normal.
Taliesin: Does he?
Liam: You used to give me wet willies in Abyssal class. It's me.
Laura: I know it's you.
Ashley: You have something new on your chest.
Liam: What? Oh shit. Well, that's extra.
Ashley: Keyleth?
Marisha: Will you come here for a second? Okay.
Ashley: I climb back up the tree.
Marisha: I could hear everything that's going on because it's down the tree.
Ashley: Are you okay?
Marisha: No, I'm super not okay. What's going on? What the fuck is going on?!
Laura: Keyleth, we can hear you.
Marisha: Fuck all of you! For a fucking second, just tell me.
Ashley: I was watching, and then I saw him walk out of the tree of sorts, and I think it's him, and he's obviously naked.
Marisha: I have his armor.
Ashley: Okay. Maybe you would be able to tell, to see what's going on. I think you should come down. It will be okay.
Marisha: Okay. You go first. I'll follow you.
Ashley: Okay.
Marisha: I follow her down.
Matt: Okay. You come down, and there, next to Vex and Percival, at a distance of a few feet, you see the pale body standing before you of Vax'ildan, breathing.
Liam: Hi.
Taliesin: I'm so sorry.
Matt: You guys wake up, slowly, from all of this.
Taliesin: I cannot wait for you both to be angry with me later.
Ashley: Okay.
Marisha: Does he feel cold?
Matt: Colder than you remember, yeah.
Laura: Oh god, he's undead.
Marisha: Is it you? I thought I killed you.
Liam: You?
Marisha: I could have done more.
Liam: No. Nobody could have done more for me. No.
Marisha: You're cold.
Liam: Am I? I probably should put some clothes on, then.
Marisha: I put my ear up to his chest.
Matt: Make a medicine check.
Marisha: Natural 18. 24.
Matt: You hear the faint, slow heartbeat.
Marisha: Okay. I give him back the armor.
Taliesin: No!
Marisha: Percy.
Taliesin: Not yet.
Liam: I'm not taking it.
Taliesin: Thank you. Not yet.
Marisha: How long do we have you? What do you remember? Anything?
Liam: Well, you can guess some of it.
Marisha: No, we fucking can't!
Laura: We have no fucking idea what's going on.
Marisha: As far as I'm concerned, you can drop dead in front of our faces right now, and it wouldn't be much different than the past 24 hours.
Liam: You all have seen her, the same as I have.
Laura: We haven't talked to her like you have.
Marisha: We saw her face.
Laura: What did she say? Did she send you back? Did she say, "oh, you're going to be undead."
Liam: She did not say I'm a fucking ghoul.
Ashley: Vax, you're going to be okay. Take my hand. This is going to be okay. We're going to figure this out.
Liam: Yeah.
Travis: Where did everybody go?
Sam: Good morning!
Ashley: Grog.
Marisha: Surprise.
Travis: What? I go down.
Liam: Hey. What's up, Poobah?
Travis: Is this real?
Taliesin: We're not sure.
Laura: We're figuring it out.
Liam: Ooh.
Travis: I need to pee.
Sam: I come down and join everybody.
Liam: Hi.
Sam: I look in my pocket to where I was keeping the dust that was Vax. Is there anything there?
Matt: Still filled with dust.
Liam: What is that?
Sam: This is you.
Laura: Oh fuck.
Liam: What?
Taliesin: Let's not even begin to have this discussion if we don't have to.
Sam: I feel like I should still keep this.
Ashley: Keep it just in case. I'm going to cast Turn Undead.
Matt: You Channel Divinity  Turn Undead.
Marisha: Wait. What?
Matt: As you say that, she takes her holy symbol and clutches it, and you watch as there's this divine flash and this emanating force, this low hum. As it billows out, and you've seen her use it before. Clutching Vax in your hand, you feel the warmth pass over you. No seeming effect.
Ashley: Vax, I don't know how you did it, or how she did it, but something's happened.
Liam: She's like Sarenrae.
Taliesin: I think that we can be physically optimistic. Go.
Liam: Pike, she's a god.
Ashley: I've never seen anything like this before in my life.
Taliesin: We have to figure out where you came from, 'cause you're in a pouch.
Ashley: You're there, and you're here.
Sam: Wait, have we tried-- hey. Can you cut your hand? Do you bleed?
Liam: Can someone lend me a knife?
Marisha: I gave you back your armor and shit.
Liam: I didn't take it.
Laura: I'm going to take Whisper and cut him.
Marisha: He's got a cloak over him.
Laura: I'm going to cut you right here.
Matt: You cut him. It's a sharp pain, and you watch as it bleeds.
Laura: Red?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Sorry. I cast Cure Wounds.
Taliesin: This is looking better, all things considered.
Liam: I don't know.
Laura: I'd already laid claim on your boots. I'd come to grips with everything, and I'd decided I was going to wear them.
Liam: I was about to tell you everything she told me, but I've changed my mind. (laughter)
Taliesin: I'm going to fall down on the ground.
Sam: How did this happen?
Travis: I was asleep, and now you're here.
Sam: You made a deal with your god, or something?
Liam: Years ago.
Laura: Years ago?
Liam: Year and a half ago.
Ashley: What did you say? What was your deal?
Marisha: You're here until the job's complete, right? Or she feels that you've paid your service, I feel like I remember you telling me in bedside chat at some point in time over the 15 months?
Taliesin: TMI.
Travis: You need to work on your intimacy. (laughs)
Liam: She was a bit more specific. She doesn't like our new play pal.
Laura: Vecna?
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: I know. She hates him.
Taliesin: Problem. We were not effective.
Laura: Was Keyleth right? If we defeat him, do you go away?
Ashley: Or maybe you're free from that deal?
Sam: If we defeat him, do you go away?
Marisha: Or is your soul yours again?
Laura: Just answer the question!
Liam: It was death or come back and help you.
Travis: Oh fuck. Oh shit.
Sam: So if we win, you lose.
Liam: That's one way of looking at it.
Sam: Well, that's a brave choice.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Are her deals final?
Liam: I don't have a lot of experience with other gods making deals, darling. But I want you to live a long time. And I want you two to live a long time and be happy. And I want you to get a halfway decent relationship with your daughter. I want you to lead many people. I want you to change the world. I want you to do all the things I know you can do. Forget it. Grog, I just want you to be free.
Travis: Thank you, New Vax.
Liam: So much better than the old Vax. Look, any one of us could die at any time! We have died. Some of us more than once. It's a miracle that I'm here now.
Laura: Put your armor on.
Sam: I don't mind it. It's fine.
Marisha: So that's it? Your purpose is to make sure that the rest of us find long, happy lives at the cost of your own?
Liam: I've lived a very good life.
Laura: She's not my favorite anymore.
Liam: And it's not just us. The dragons were a test. This fucking lunatic, this dead thing. He's not setting up a theme park, guys.
Laura: We need to get back.
Marisha: We need to talk to the Raven Queen.
Taliesin: We need a plan.
Marisha: We need help.
Taliesin: We do need help.
Sam: We have Vax now. No matter what happens later, this was a brave choice. I'm not sure I would have made the same, but we're stronger together, and thank you for coming back. It's a harder choice to come back. It's easier to walk away. I know this. Thank you for coming back.
Travis: Yeah, it's not like we have no agency, right? We've been hit with bigger problems. We'll work this one until we can't, anymore.
Taliesin: We'll all try and keep each other alive.
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: I don't accept this as a closed contract.
Travis: Yeah, me neither.
Sam: Maybe this will make you more fun to be around, too. You used to have this death wish, but now it's done. Now you pop a beer.
Liam: Don't set your expectations too high.
Taliesin: I was about to say, we can give him that pouch, and then he could have perfect proof.
Travis: If you wear clothes, is the deal null and void?
Liam: No, I have to be naked all the time.
Matt: It's interesting, Vax. As Scanlan says those words, you realize--
Travis: I have to be naked. (laughter)
Matt: It's part of your new multi-class.
Marisha: Does he get a bonus to AC?
Matt: Level five paladin, level 12 rogue, level one nudist. (laughter)
Matt: Unarmored defense. You had it, and now he has it, too.
Marisha: Streaker's sprint.
Matt: The words he said about always having a death wish, and now the death wish is over. There's a strength in you, a confidence, an assurance that wasn't there before. That fear of death is gone. As he says that, for the first time, while you raced towards death previously, it was out of fear, and out of martyr-like purpose. It's just confidence now. And that's where we're going to take a break.
Travis: Oh damn! Free Willy.
Matt: We'll be back here in just a minute. We'll continue from here so we can get a drink and a restroom break. We have our giveaway. Fantastic zebrawood deck box from our friends at Wyrmwood. It's got a little card to tell you it's zebrawood. One lucky winner's going to get this when we come back from the break, so if you want to be part of this giveaway, go over to the Twitch chat and enter when it's requested by the chat, enter the word "raven." We'll have a winner for you when we get back.
Sam: That's so raven.
Travis: That's so raven.
Matt: That's so raven, guys. All righty. Cool. We'll see you guys here in a few minutes. [break]
Matt: That's so late. You were so late on that.
Liam: Change the rules of the game. Wait until the countdown's done, then you say something foul.
Matt: Welcome, guys, back to Critical Role. The chat room winner of our fantastic Wyrmwood deck box is NightMist1. NightMist1, congratulations. Denobo will contact you for your information, and we'll get that to you asap. Well done. All righty, everyone. So there, figuring out the scenario revolving the return of Vax'ildan to Vox Machina, and slowly learning some of the scenario around it and the discussions that took place. (burps) Pardon. (laughter)
Travis: Battling it the last two seconds.
Sam: It's his birthday. He can do whatever he wants.
Matt: Goddamn right.
Laura: That's going to be a t-shirt.
Liam: I got this, I got this, (fake belch).
Matt: I have no ego anymore. I learned early to stomp that out. All righty, so as you put your equipment and armor back on, minus your haste boots.
Travis: And your other equipment away.
Liam: God, the grass is really cold.
Laura: Here, you can have these old boots of mine.
Liam: Thank you.
Sam: Wow. Ice cold.
Marisha: I admire how you're really sticking to that. I'm in awe. I'm impressed.
Sam: It's super greedy. (laughter)
Laura: I thought we knew this about me already.
Liam: These are better. They're Velcro.
Sam: Oh, good.
Travis: I think we should call out to the werewolves.
Sam: You think we should call out to the werewolves for what purpose?
Travis: We need diamonds.
Laura: We don't need diamonds anymore.
Travis: All last night, "we need diamonds." Huge discussion. Took forever.
Laura: We don't need them anymore.
Taliesin: Then you suggested we sleep, and suddenly we don't need diamonds anymore.
Liam: Why did we need diamonds?
Sam: We were going to buy your soul back for a lot of diamonds.
Liam: That makes no sense.
Laura: It was a high-cost spell.
Marisha: Attempt to resurrect you. Don't worry about it.
Laura: Good to know in the future, though. I'm going to save every diamond we find.
Taliesin: We should probably-- I get the distinct impression this is--
Travis: We should still call the werewolves.
Sam: Just because?
Travis: How often are you in the Feywild? It's like going to Philadelphia and not eating a cheesesteak.
Taliesin: We technically go to the Feywild about once a year, at this point. At least, some of us. But since we are here... I'm not going to pretend I have a plan. I don't know what we're going to do. We are frighteningly outmatched.
Marisha: We should probably get back very quickly, before too much time passes. We've already slept here.
Sam: If we go back, where are we going? Where were we?
Laura: I feel like we were in Wildemount, but I have no idea. Where are the places that are winter?
Marisha: Vasselheim?
Liam: We can't do this alone.
Laura: What about Artagan? That's his name, right?
Liam: That's a start.
Sam: Who?
Laura: Artagan.
Marisha: The guy who messed with us for three days?
Laura: Yeah, but he was really powerful.
Travis: Oh, yeah. He was. I bet if we call the werewolves, he will show up, as well. I'll just howl for them real quick.
Taliesin: It's not like we can stop you.
Travis: True. (howls)
Matt: Make a performance check. (laughter)
Travis: Damn it! 13.
Matt: There isn't much space for it to really echo, as the trees absorb a lot of the sound, but you howl. It's cathartic. You wait. You don't hear any response.
Travis: I love Teen Wolf. I know every line in that fucking movie. Michael J. Fox.
Liam: Artagan is a good start. We need...
Laura: The help of the gods.
Liam: Higher powers here, yes.
Laura: Sarenrae.
Liam: That's a start.
Ashley: I can ask. That doesn't mean we're going to get it.
Liam: Pickle, I actually mean a little more than that.
Ashley: What do you mean?
Liam: Well, we have one god heavily in our corner, but we need to go and beseech the help of others. We are not enough, in this instance. We need to fucking go and talk to Sarenrae.
Sam: Go?
Laura: How do we go and talk to Sarenrae? Vasselheim?
Marisha: Is it possible?
Laura: Where is Sarenrae?
Ashley: You have a very different connection with your god.
Liam: You can take us anywhere.
Laura: What, a plane? A heaven plane? A god plane?
Taliesin: Oh my god.
Travis: That doesn't exist, right?
Liam: The gods? You don't think the gods exist, after all you've seen, Grog?
Travis: That's a very long discussion, but I meant actual location for them.
Marisha: I thought gods were supposed to be all omnipresent and whatnot.
Ashley: 19.
Matt: 19. The creator gods, the prime gods, the creators of Exandria, when they left the Prime Material Plane and left the realm of the elemental planes and the divine gate was crafted to separate their powers from the Prime Material for fear of causing another calamity and wiping out mortal existence on this realm, many of them withdrew and crafted realms where they reside, where they, themselves, harness their energies of creation and where the souls that fall under their spheres of influence come to upon being passed. The Raven Queen is responsible for ushering that transition. You do know that Sarenrae exists on a plane like this, and she's not the only god that exists on this one particular plane.
Laura: So how do we go there? Would they kill us?
Marisha: Knock, knock, hello? I bamfed into your universe. I don't know.
Taliesin: We wouldn't come by if it weren't an emergency.
Liam: What else have we been doing for the last year and a half but knocking on different dimensional doors?
Marisha: I do like New Vax's tenacity.
Sam: Would we be accepted there? I've done some things in my life that are less than heavenly.
Liam: Where could you not talk your way into, Scanlan Shorthalt?
Sam: That's true.
Marisha: It does immediately become the concern that I can't get us anywhere unless I have some sort of item, generally a tuning fork or some sort of attuned item to that plane to get us there.
Liam: We start in Vasselheim.
Marisha: You said your god, the Raven Queen, she's the one who transitions people. Maybe she can help.
Laura: Does Pike have anything attuned to Sarenrae, though?
Liam: Oh, to Sarenrae? I don't think they're in the same place.
Matt: Ashley, were you about to ask a question?
Ashley: Shit, what was I going to say?
Sam: Is her symbol attuned?
Matt: Being attuned to a deity isn't being attuned to a plane of existence, and those things can be-- the attunement process. You don't know much about what that would entail, but you imagine that would have something to do with a place of very strong holy worship of that particular deity.
Liam: I'm going to assume that sometime in the last year and a half, these two have told you that I dipped into a bathtub full of blood.
Sam: I was gone.
Laura: No, you weren't.
Liam: You just weren't paying attention, buddy. The temples in Vasselheim are old. The oldest, including the temple that you helped pull out of the dirt. If anywhere is attuned to the gods, it is Vasselheim.
Travis: Ooh! What about Kord? I'm wearing his oven mitts.
Liam: There you go.
Travis: Oh shit.
Marisha: Does that mean I should go talk to Melora?
Travis: Are we straight-up god recruiting? Is that what you mean? Do gods talk to each other?
Laura: Yeah, the Raven Queen and Sarenrae are best buds, aren't they?
Marisha: I feel like when you're in the same clique, when you're on the same level, everyone talks, right?
Laura: It's a small group of people. They have to.
Taliesin: I think what Vax is trying to say is we need patrons.
Laura: Patrons.
Taliesin: We need patronage.
Travis: What do you mean?
Taliesin: We're not enough. We are not enough for this. We are going to all die horribly if we try anything like that again.
Travis: We need them with us, or they're going to imbue us--
Taliesin: I don't know.
Liam: Pelor lives here.
Laura: Lives here in the Feywild?
Liam: Pelor.
Taliesin: Oh god.
Liam: All of us, your family.
Taliesin: We have to deal with this.
Marisha: So we have a short list, is what we're saying.
Taliesin: We need to get a slightly longer list, and we have to start begging. We are going to owe favors. We are going to owe our lives. We are going to lose.
Laura: Are we really going to pledge allegiance to a bunch of different gods? That's what we're going to do?
Travis: That could be cool.
Taliesin: We'll see.
Marisha: Do we each get different suits, matching suits, but in different colors? God powers?
Travis: No, you're taking it too-- relax a little. Do you want some ale?
Laura: Like Captain Planet?
Travis: Who's your god going to be? Is there a god of mischief or song or cubes?
Matt: Make a religion check.
Sam: A religion check? 14. Do I add my jack-of-all?
Matt: Yeah, you do.
Sam: 17.
Matt: 17. There is the Moon Weaver.
Sam: The Moon Weaver?
Travis: (singing) Oh, moon weaver!
Matt: She is the god of moonlight and the autumn season, as well as the patron of illusions and misdirection.
Laura: Who is that?
Sam: The Moon Weaver. A god that I've heard of once, and therefore will pledge my eternal allegiance to.
Laura: You did?
Sam: No, we're god-spitballing here.
Laura: The Moon Weaver? They have a temple to her in Syngorn.
Sam: I have an Ioun Stone.
Matt: Ioun.
Laura: Ioun is the goddess of knowledge.
Marisha: Put her on our to-call list.
Sam: But I've been praying to Sarenrae lately.
Ashley: What if I were to channel divinity and try to make a prayer and be like, hey, can we come up there right quick?
Marisha: Is it better to do that here or on the Prime Material Plane? Or does it really matter?
Ashley: I don't know.
Sam: They don't care, right?
Liam: Let's go back to your temple.
Taliesin: We also probably want to alert the mortal coil that everything has gone to shit.
Marisha: Also, the longer we're here, potentially, the more time gets wonky.
Liam: We're on a ticking clock, here.
Laura: Let's go to Vasselheim.
Ashley: I like this idea. It's a little crazy, but I like it.
Sam: We should start with one god and see how it goes.
Laura: Start with one that really likes you. So Sarenrae's a good call there.
Ashley: We'll work our way through in a montage.
Liam: Worked for me.
Ashley: A god-tage.
Travis: Do we hold hands?
Sam: Do we all get tattoos? (singing) We need a god-tage!
Ashley: Vasselheim.
Laura: Vasselheim.
Matt: To Vasselheim.
Sam: Wait, we're just going to go?
Laura: Wait, we didn't talk to Artagan. Artagan, are you here?
Liam: Is that how it works?
Laura: Can you hear us? Do you want to help us?
Taliesin: Maybe if we do something even stupider than holding hands in a circle.
Travis: Did any werewolves show up?
Matt: No.
Marisha: Okay, let's go.
Laura: Right as we go, I start howling. (howling)
Matt: And with a singular howl, you all shift out of the Feywild and then rapidly appear right on the outskirts of the outer wall of Vasselheim. You see the large, almost Sumerian-looking structures and walls that surround the outside. The ancient architecture of the place definitely has the oldest look, and you remember seeing it from the top when you flew in through your first skyship arrival into Vasselheim. The snow-covered ground and snow-covered trees as part of the Vesper Timberland.
Marisha: I immediately look around in a 360, very quickly. Does there look like any big cities that should not be here?
Matt: You can make a perception check.
Liam: Is there a city on top of the city?
Marisha: 19.
Matt: As you arrive, there's a weird fuzziness in your mind in regards to--
Laura: Oh shit. Oh god, what if it's been years?
Matt: I would like all of you guys to make a wisdom saving throw, please.
Marisha: What?
Laura: We could lose our memories!
Marisha: Wisdom saving throws?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Not a problem.
Laura: We're immune to that, right? People with fey ancestry?
Liam: No, it's charm or sleep.
Matt: Creatures who have fey ancestry are immune to it, yeah.
Liam: Damn it! I used luck and I rolled the same thing on both.
Matt: You're immune.
Liam: For charm and sleep?
Matt: If you have the fey ancestry trait, you're immune.
Taliesin: I had to burn a resolve.
Marisha: Am I?
Laura: Yeah, you have it, too. You're a half-elf.
Matt: Saving throw, yes.
Ashley: I have advantage because of gnome cunning?
Matt: It's not a spell or magical effect. It's a planar effect, so I'd say no. What did you get?
Ashley: 14.
Matt: 14.
Travis: Eight.
Sam: Can I inspire myself?
Matt: Yeah. No, can you do it on a saving throw?
Sam: I don't know. It's ability checks, only.
Matt: I think it's just ability checks. Let me check, just to be safe.
Taliesin: I burned a resolve. I've got to make sure that I can use the resolve.
Matt: Yeah, ability checks.
Sam: Nine.
Matt: Nine?
Taliesin: Can I use resolve on this? Okay, in that case, 20.
Matt: Okay, so as you guys all arrive on the outside of Vasselheim, the cold air hits you. Grog, Scanlan: Vax is there alive in front of you.
Sam: Holy shit.
Matt: The last thing you saw was him turn to dust, and you guys left the Shadowfell, and then from the Shadowfell and this battle, you've just now returned, not as wounded as you were before.
Sam: What happened? What's going on? Where are we? Who am I? What happened? What's going on?
Travis: I have to pee.
Marisha: (laughs) Yeah, bringing it back.
Laura: Didn't you lose your memory last time? Did we ever realize that you lost your memory the last time?
Travis: I don't know. (laughter)
Travis: Are you real?
Taliesin: He is abundantly real.
Ashley: Can I Greater Restoration them?
Laura: Is that how we did it before?
Ashley: I don't know how you did it before because I don't think I was here.
Travis: This is weird for you, right?
Sam: Totally. He was dead a second ago. Now he's alive.
Travis: Is there still dust in your pocket?
Matt: Anything that can end a curse works for it.
Sam: I draw my whip. I whip him in the face. I'm whipping Vax.
Laura: What are you doing? Scanlan, stop it! Stop it!
Sam: He's not real. He's an illusion. He's an illusion!
Matt: Roll an attack roll.
Sam: Two! (laughter)
Sam: Oh, my eye! Why does my eye hurt so much? (laughter)
Travis: What's with your eye?
Sam: I don't know! It shouldn't have hurt that much.
Liam: We'll call this a victory for you. You have won this day. Scanlan Shorthalt is your name. We're in Vasselheim.
Sam: We are?
Liam: We're in Vasselheim.
Sam: We were just fighting a god.
Ashley: We were in the Feywild for a little while, and then took a nap there, and then we came here.
Marisha: In the long run, I think this is going to be better for you.
Matt: Scanlan, as this is happening, Pike walks up and touches her hand on you, and there's a flash of warm energy through your body, and suddenly the memories rush back to you from the Feywild.
Sam: Oh god.
Laura: That's why your eye hurts.
Sam: His testicles hung so low!
Travis: What?
Liam: Mine, or Vecna's?
Sam: Yours.
Laura: Vecna was wearing a big dress, so we probably could have seen his balls.
Matt: Magical muumuu? Flying above the whole time.
Ashley: I'll go over and touch Grog, too.
Matt: Okay. That's two Greater Restorations. The memory returns to you of the Feywild.
Travis: (gasps) Oh, I don't have to pee. (laughter)
Taliesin: This makes me wonder if you've been doing it wrong this whole time.
Liam: It's whenever he remembers.
Matt: Vax. You feel this small, pounding headache in your head. It's a very faint burn.
Liam: I actually have this.
Matt: Yeah. You shake your head, and it changes in your head, based on where you're facing.
Travis: What?
Laura: What?
Liam: Duskmeadow?
Matt: No. It's... make a survival check to try and figure out where you are around the city of Vasselheim.
Liam: 19.
Matt: Okay. Based on looking at the placement of the sun in the sky, looking at the mountain range that this is built on the northern side of the city, you get the sense that you guys are close to the perfectly south side of Vasselheim, the entrance that leads toward the Quad Roads in the center. That burning sensation, it seems to be localized. No matter where you turn your head, it's pointing that direction, to the northwest of your current location, and the more you concentrate on it, the more you feel that hatred and loathing curl and push in that direction. You know what lies in that direction.
Liam: Do I have a sense of distance, or just direction?
Matt: Let me double-check.
Laura: He knows where Vecna is?
Sam: Or something.
Laura: Cool.
Matt: Let me double-check here, real fast.
Liam: Vec-dar.
Taliesin: Vecna-dar.
Liam: What's your Vecna, Victor?
Matt: You know the distance, yeah.
Sam: You know the distance?
Matt: You roughly know, about 350 miles from where you stand, to the northwest. 350 to 400 miles northwest.
Ashley: She gave you a Vecna compass.
Laura: That's badass. 350 miles. How far is that from us right now? Where is that in distance?
Sam: Sonoma.
Laura: Really? It's that close? Okay.
Travis: It ain't close. It's eight hours.
Laura: Eight-hour drive? Okay.
Sam: Wait, are we taking the hybrid?
Ashley: Stop off, go to wine country.
Matt: It'll be fun.
Liam: The burn that I feel. There's no question what it is for him.
Matt: This is part of your charge. This was part of the deal that you struck.
Travis: What deal? You wanna tell us what deal it was?
Liam: You don't hear any of that shit. It's in my head.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: You are the Raven Queen's homing missile.
Travis: Fucking A.
Liam: So I'm going to need those boots back.
Laura: Why?
Liam: Because I'm a missile.
Laura: I don't know what you're talking about.
Liam: Well, you think about it. You think about what you've done. I know you'll do the right thing, eventually.
Travis: I have a random thought. While y'all are trying to go get Sarenrae, this is where the story of the Lord of the Quad Roads is. If you're not familiar with the Lord of the Quad Roads, he was a gentleman that just very quickly came into fame and fortune, and he's a personal friend of mine, and I thought I might try and go find him for a favor. You know, one of those people if you pop in town, they get real pissed if you don't stop by.
Liam: Is he a god?
Travis: Maybe? Could be. Not sure.
Liam: We don't have a lot of time, so do you think you could split off with somebody?
Travis: Yeah. I'll meet you up where we were.
Sam: Where are we going?
Laura: To the temple of Sarenrae.
Liam: To your temple.
Taliesin: You may not want me in company for Sarenrae.
Liam: I'm pretty sure we want your brain around, Percy. I know you're uncomfortable around all this shit, but I want you to fucking suck it up.
Taliesin: I just don't want to say the wrong thing.
Laura: I walk up to him and put my hands on the sides of his face. I can't have you away from me right now.
Taliesin: This is a deeply-inappropriate convincing mena-men-mechanism. It is working. All right.
Sam: She's beautiful.
Taliesin: You're a terrible person!
Liam: I mean, she's okay.
Marisha: Do we need to stop by the temple of the Raven Queen?
Liam: I don't think we do.
Laura: You just had a really long conversation with her.
Liam: I don't think we do.
Marisha: Okay.
Ashley: To Sarenrae?
Liam: Grog, are you splitting off?
Travis: Yeah. It's real important.
Liam: You can stay on task, though, right?
Travis: Yeah. I could just pop in, give him a little fist bump, and I'll meet you at Sarenrae's hovel.
Marisha: Do you want a teammate to go with you?
Liam: Yeah, I think you need a minder.
Marisha: Do you want to pick someone?
Travis: Fancy a trip?
Sam: With you, Grog?
Travis: Yeah!
Sam: Just the two of us, wandering through a city together?
Travis: Yep. You know, totally behaving ourselves.
Liam: Do you see this?
Sam: Do I see what?
Liam: He's relaxed.
Sam: You're right. I should go with him. All right, let's go. We'll see you at the temple. Don't go to heaven without us.
Laura: Of course not.
Sam: All right.
Laura: Sarenrae's a big fan of the cube.
Marisha: Where was the Melora grove thing?
Matt: Oh, you're talking about the--
Marisha: That we buried Senokir's wife's ashes.
Matt: You're referring to the Abundant Terrace, within the Birth Heart.
Marisha: Where is that?
Matt: The Birth Heart would be on the northeastern side of the city.
Marisha: But it's here?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Should I go talk to Melora? Should I go try and recruit Melora? Team Sarenrae and Team Melora?
Liam: Maybe.
Taliesin: Let's do one at a time.
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: I'm just trying to save time.
Taliesin: I think we're a bit beyond that, at this point.
Travis: Besides, we'd know if Old Shit Nuts is moving closer because of--
Liam: I just know what my patron charged me with. That doesn't mean I understand what it means, so I think we should start with one.
Taliesin: We're eventually going to have to tell somebody in charge what's happening. But to Sarenrae! Let's get this ball rolling.
Laura: Let's do it!
Matt: All right, so you two are splitting off and the rest of you are going to Sarenrae? All right. The five of you make your way through the Quad Roads, towards the northern side of the Quad Roads before it splits off at the base of the mountain and before it divides off towards the Abundant Terrace and the Trial Forge. The Braving Grounds. That is where you spent a lot of time raising the temple of the Everlight, Sarenrae. Traversing there on the cold day, the city seems to be as vibrant as ever, and as dour as ever, as is the nature of those who live in these northern lands, but you know, smiles and existence come together occasionally. You come to the temple. It looks well-kept. The various clerics and acolytes that you had assigned to watch over it in your absence over this past year and a half before you ventured out to defeat the Conclave seem to have taken good care, and it's warming to your heart to see what appears to be children stepping out, laughing with their parents in what seems to have been a small service of some kind. And as you begin to watch and approach, you can see the acolytes that are saying goodbye to those at the front door glance over and see your face, and they brighten immediately. There you go, clear your nose. Acolyte Sheila, who is one of the older women who first helped you raise it and became one of your first acolytes here at the temple. The temple which is being known now as the Temple of Renewal. It is the official title of the location, which is taken from the realm of Sarenrae, known as the Island of Renewal. As she sees your face, Acolyte Sheila goes, "Pike! Mistress Pike!" And runs up and takes you in her arms. She tries to lift you, but you're far too heavy with the armor. (grunts)
Ashley: That's okay. I'm heavier than I look.
Matt: "Yes, of course."
Ashley: Pure muscle.
Matt: You guys see this woman in probably her late-forties or early-fifties, mostly gray-silver hair with streaks and bits of a dark brown. It's put back in some sort of a bun with a large stick through the center to hold it in place. She's wearing robes of light blue and gold, very much in the way that you've seen Pike wear most of her equipment and earlier armor to her deity. She looks around. "Well, my apologies. I am Sheila, and I know who you are. We've heard much. You are welcome. You are welcome here at the Temple of Renewal. Please come in."
Ashley: It looks lovely in here. You guys have really kept it up quite nice.
Matt: "The hard part was already done. Come into her light, please." And leads you all into this tower. The excavation site here. What was once a large pit, below which the original temple was, the edges have been ground down to be this slow decline, and a tower was risen up. The actual stonework was ascended about 15 feet up, so it's not quite street level; it's a little below, but it's this small bowl that leads to the tower itself, and then it rises up a good 30 feet.
Laura: You did this?
Marisha: This is great, Pike.
Laura: Holy shit!
Ashley: Not all by myself.
Marisha: Is this how you learned all of your stoneworking stuff?
Ashley: Yeah!
Marisha: It's good, like a druid could do it. It's very impressive.
Ashley: That's a compliment. (laughter)
Marisha: Good craftsmanship.
Ashley: Sheila. (sighs) We're trying to figure out the best way to... what am I trying to say, here? We're trying to go to Sarenrae, but actually go to her. Not in the sense of the mind, actually walking up and saying hello.
Marisha: I didn't realize how crazy it sounds until you say it out loud.
Ashley: When I started, I realized this is so weird.
Matt: "That's a bit beyond my realm. Perhaps we should speak to Acolyte Vincent Clore. He's the keeper of knowledge and scripture. He'd probably be more help than I."
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: Can you try just talking to Sarenrae?
Ashley: I could try. Of course, but maybe he will know which plane she's on and we can head there. Sometimes she doesn't talk to me. I can always try, since we're in here.
Matt: What do you want to do?
Ashley: I'll go ahead and try. You know what? Let me say a prayer real quick, Sheila.
Liam: Want to take a knee, everybody?
Ashley: Percy, it's fine. You don't need to.
Taliesin: No. In for a penny.
Ashley: Let's all take a knee.
Matt: The tower itself is a fairly wide tower. 30 feet high at street level. It's about 45 feet full height from where the baseline rising it was and the rest of the tower that's been assembled beyond that. On the inside, there are four floors, all of which have a hollow center about ten feet across, for in the center of the entire tower is one long, thin, ascending tower of what looks to be a sculpture of stone and gold and platinum-colored angels and clouds that all turn and twist. It rises up like this thin spire of sculpture, and there at the very top, you see the phoenix-like wings clutching the ruby stone at the top, the symbol of Sarenrae. As you step to the base of this structure, which you haven't even seen finished; you left before this was completed. It's awe-inspiring to see this thing that you saw the very early stages of come into creation, and now it's strangely comforting to know that for all the effort that you put in, for all the strange responsibility you put on yourself, that none of this would get done if you weren't there, it's comforting to know that even without your presence, it can carry on to completion. And that as it is with worship, you don't need to helm it. Once you give it a shove, it carries itself forward. You close your eyes and you kneel below at the base of this amazing statue, one of the few only standing to her direct worship of its size, of any note to the world at this time. What do you say as your prayer?
Ashley: Well, I'm back here, and this is so beautiful. I'm sure you've seen and have... seen what's happened where we were, and I know the last time we talked, you warned me and told me that you wouldn't be there, but I think we're past the point of being able to do this on our own, just our mortal selves, and we need bigger help. Might I ask for (sighs) your-- please help us. I don't know what else to say. This is beyond us now.
Matt: As the words leave your mouth, yourself prostrate before the temple you helped build with your own hands, you open your eyes, but you see not the temple before you. You see, instead, around you essences of a vision that have been blurred at the edges, but now come clear. You see around you sandy shores, pearlescent almost. White sand that glitters in your presence, just at the peripheral, glass gems, diamonds, you can't tell, but the light that hits it seems to just sparkle and give off this light. You hear water around you rushing up and pulling back from the shore. You see statues, so many statues before you, and one that appears to be a glass fortress, a spire that rises up crystalline, translucent, but seeming to glow with the flicker of an internal flame's heartbeat. As you look up at the top of the temple, you see the wings unfurl, drift towards you, and you see coming towards you the physical form of the Everlight herself. Her darkened skin, her beautiful smile, her light hair leaving a trail of flame and gold and sunlight behind. She comes forth and drifts right before you and says, "Then the time is right for us to meet. Come. Come and join me on the Island of Renewal, within the blessed fields of Elysium. Here, we can speak."
Ashley: I immediately take a knee. Thank you for letting me come here. Just to see you, and-- we will come to you.
Matt: Her hands reach out and clasp yours, and the warmth of her touch is hot. You feel like it's borderline burning, but it doesn't hurt. You instinctually, that animalistic essence of primal life tells you to pull back, but you don't. It's a comforting heat, like holding a cup of fresh, hot tea. She seems to almost lift you off the feet, up to her. And her size, which was so vast and immense seems to come to meet yours one-on-one. She goes, "Then come. You have the tools. You have the means. I await." And as she lets go, you look down in your hand and you see what appears to be a small little piece of curved metal made of a bright, polished platinum, like a U. As you look up to her again, you're just staring at the statue. You're staring around the temple. You look down at your hand, but the item remains.
Marisha: She just gave us a key!
Laura: What happened?
Ashley: Did you guys see anything?
Laura: We saw you praying and you had this crazy look in your eyes.
Liam: You looked blissful.
Laura: So happy.
Ashley: Wow! Well, I went there. I went to the Island of Renewal; that's where she is. And she gave this to me.
Laura: What is it?
Marisha: Do I recognize what it is?
Sam: It's an IUD. (laughter)
Laura: You're not here!
Liam: We all hear Scanlan Shorthalt's voice in our minds.
Ashley: Over the earring. Shut up, Scanlan.
Matt: Structurally similar, I suppose.
Ashley: No, it's not.
Sam: Of course not.
Matt: I can give, and I can take away. (laughs) It's different in the designs that have been crafted, that have been a little more crude. This has, once you reach out and touch it, it has that vibration to it, that hint of attuned activity to the metal, the pure metal, that definitely gives you some semblance of direction in your subtle understanding of the inner and outer planes and the general cosmology that surrounds Exandria.
Laura: She gave us a key to find her.
Marisha: She gave us a key to Plane Shift there. This is the tuning fork that I needed.
Laura: What the-- wow!
Taliesin: Let's let people know.
Ashley: That was cool. Vax, you have a very different relationship with your god, but-- awesome! That was cool!
Laura: What was she like?
Ashley: She was so beautiful! And just glowed. No! And I just can't even describe it, she just glowed and it felt like-- do you remember the movie Contact? (laughter)
Laura: Yeah!
Sam: You mean the old scroll?
Ashley: Yes, the old scroll Contact, where she gets to the beach and her dad is there? That's what it felt like!
Laura: Wow!
Ashley: I need to go back there! Let's all go!
Marisha: Hang on. Do other gods live there?
Matt: Make a religion check.
Liam: And we're waiting on a guy, too, aren't we? The lady, Sheila, ran off--
Ashley: 23.
Matt: 23. She mentioned the blessed fields of Elysium. Sarenrae, as you know, the general understanding of her existence in the pantheon had been faded for a while. There was a betrayal to her in the Calamity and most of her following was annihilated. As gods, as they currently exist, their worship is what sustains their importance and viability in the various planes. She diminished, so her location, her home, has been kept from most existing scripture and worship both for her protection and those of her followers. So the existence of the Island of Renewal and where it may be have only recently come to your attention. The blessed fields of Elysium, though, they are a fairly well-known location in religious circles, and is also home to the Fortress of the Sun, the home of Pelor, the Dawnfather.
Travis: Holy shit.
Laura: That's convenient.
Matt: Different area on the plane. The Fortress of the Sun.
Laura: (singing) Fortress of the Sun.
Matt: The blessed fields of Elysium are an idyllic plane of good.
Liam: Are these things Pike knows because of her expertise, or does everyone in the world know a certain amount about?
Matt: They know the gods, and they know the realms, but the name of the plane? This is known to her because of her study of religion. This is more of an academic understanding of the real essence of the gods, where they come from.
Ashley: I didn't think it was going to work! Sheila, I think--
Matt: Sheila begins to return two minutes later with acolyte Vincent Clor, who's this mousy-looking guy. His eyes are smaller than they should be it seems for the size of his round face, he comes up with a big toothy grin. "I was told that you were seeking my presence, wonderful Mistress Pike."
Ashley: It's wonderful to see you, Vincent. I'm so sorry she went to go get you. I think we might be okay, and we got some answers.
Taliesin: We should probably tell them what's going on. People should start to prepare themselves for what's coming. We can't just keep this to ourselves.
Laura: This could affect everyone.
Taliesin: This is going to affect everyone.
Travis: (whispering) Tell no one
Taliesin: You're not here! You went shopping.
Sam: We're in the House of Lady Favors of Renewal right now.
Matt: I'll get to you guys in a moment.
Ashley: You, obviously, have heard of Vecna.
Matt: "No, I don't."
Laura: So there's this guy. He's a shithead. Okay, there's this guy.
Matt: "Right, okay."
Laura: He wanted to be a god, but he wasn't a god.
Marisha: Three mimosas later, and three hours later...
Laura: We explain the story of Vecna and tell him he's back.
Marisha: (slurring) And he totally didn't call us back! And I told him I'm not getting back together again.
Matt: "Sounds like a really, really bad man."
Laura: He's here.
Matt: "He's here?"
Laura: He's here on this plane, and he's trying to become a god, and who knows, maybe he succeeded. How long were we in the Feywild? Do we even know that for sure?
Marisha: Did I figure that out with my check, or no?
Laura: What's the date?
Marisha: Yeah, how much time has it been?
Matt: The date would be--
Sam: Is there a calendar system?
Matt: Yes, there is.
Laura: But we don't know it.
Taliesin: So he's going to tell us a date that will mean nothing to us because we don't actually know the date we left because we don't know how dates work.
Liam: I think it's Bidetsday. Yeah, Bidetsday.
Taliesin: Bidusday, Bidetsday.
Liam: Let's see. Bidetsday.
Taliesin: Bidusday, Biwhatsday. Biheyhay.
Matt: Hold on, I'm having to look it up because you did this to me.
Taliesin: This is like watching the DND icon crash.
Marisha: It's frozen!
Matt: "It is the 12th day of Misothar of 812 PD?"
Laura: Oh, of course it is! Does that sound normal to us?
Matt: It sounds like the exact same day that you left, actually.
Taliesin: Well, that's convenient.
Marisha: It's the same day we left? Oh, cool! We lucked out! Yay!
Matt: You did luck out! I was like, oh man! There's a chance they could show up and have missed the whole thing. I would have had to change a lot, but that would have been fun. That would have been fun.
Laura: For one roll.
Matt: From one roll, yeah. Hey, Feywild's a dangerous thing when timetables--
Liam: Hey, buddy, you missed your window!
Ashley: So basically, we're going to need a lot of help, and please stay in prayer.
Laura: Get ready to fight, Vincent. Get ready to fucking fight.
Matt: You look at Sheila and Vincent, who look like anyone's in-laws, and go, "Very well, Mistress, right?" "Yes, we'll do our best."
Laura: PS, do you know anything about the fields of Elysium?
Taliesin: Did you just say PS to someone? Did you say that out loud?
Matt: "Yes, they are a home to souls who champion the cause of good outside the forces of law and chaos. It's a beautiful place, from what the tales say. Many who go never leave. It's so beautiful."
Laura: What gods live there?
Matt: "As far as I know, only the Dawnfather himself." The Dawnfather is Pelor. "That's all I know. My research is limited."
Laura: Right. Should you tell him?
Ashley: I don't feel like I want to.
Taliesin: Let's gather the boys and alert whatever government we can.
Laura: You guys, thank you for your help today.
Ashley: It was wonderful to see you guys again.
Matt: "Of course, my pleasure, Mistress Pike. Good luck. Hopefully, you'll stop this thing."
Ashley: Hopefully we will. Please pray for us.
Marisha: Amazing work. If you need any landscaping done, don't be afraid to ask. Pike can get you in touch with me.
Laura: Melora is really good at it, too. We should talk to Melora.
Marisha: Yeah, it's fine. We know people.
Ashley: Thank you. Keep up the good work. You're doing, just, all the great stuff.
Matt: "Thank you!"
Laura: I like the idea that anywhere we go, we embarrass the one person that knows anybody else.
Matt: Yep. You're those friends. They smile and walk away, but Vincent Clor definitely seems a bit shaken by the knowledge that you just brought to him. But you make your way out of the temple. Where are you off to? What's your next direction?
Liam: I will note that Vax feels a slight sense of bittersweet pride at the amount of bliss that Pike just went through. Just a little bit.
Matt: You two. Where you going?
Travis: All right, so I know this guy named the Lord of the Quad Roads. Back up. While you were gone-- were you gone? I'm not sure. Did you know that I have this little magical thing?
Sam: No?
Travis: No. Okay. (laughter)
Travis: So because you kept my secret about Craven Edge, and you never told anybody about that, right? Not one time. Never told anyone. I'm going to confide in you about this thing. I found this little deck of cards, and I was like, oh, I'm going to pull a card out! And I did, and I got a magic weapon! I could throw it and it would start fighting and stuff. But that turned to rust. And so I was like, I wanted to pull more out. But Vex was like, no, it's so dangerous!
Sam: That's a good impression. She can be that way.
Travis: So I went to Vasselheim. Actually, I was looking for you, you little shitstack. And I was like, hey, I've got an idea! (explosion) Boom! In my head!
Sam: I got it the first time. (laughter)
Taliesin: This is the best retelling of this ever.
Travis: I was like, I'm going to find a guy to pull out cards for me, see what happens!
Sam: Because you were afraid or because she said you can't?
Travis: Well, I heard her nagging me in my head.
Sam: Conscience.
Travis: Yeah. (laughter)
Travis: Sure. So I got this drunk guy on the street and I was like, hey, pull out a card. And guess what? He pulled a card, and he got wishes!
Sam: Did you get wishes?
Travis: No! Because fucking I made him pick it. So he goes, ooh! And all of a sudden, he was in fancy clothes and he had a servant that appeared in the alley!
Sam: Did he thank you?
Travis: He was like, thanks! I guess I have two more of these! And he fucking ran off!
Sam: Wait! He took your cards and he left?
Travis: No, he pulled the one card and it disappeared in his hand. Right? And then he walked off. But the point is: he's got two more wishes!
Sam: On him.
Travis: Yeah! And I told him, Grog! Grog gave you those! Remember me!
Sam: Just so I'm clear. We're going to go, grab him, steal his wishes, leave him in a ditch somewhere. Is that the plan? What's our game here?
Travis: I'm not opposed to it.
Sam: What's our game? What are we trying to get?
Travis: I thought, maybe, if we walked in and I had a title like Grog the Wish Giver, and we were calling to check in on him, that maybe it's time to pay his tithe to the Wish Giver, and maybe he would give us one of the two.
Sam: Okay, so our game is to intimidate him into having him give you one of the wishes back.
Travis: Yeah! Or pressure him. Lay it on thick. We could say like, "Your fucking face is going to fall off if you don't give me one of your remaining wishes."
Sam: What happened to the deck of cards?
Travis: Oh, I've still got them.
Sam: Why are we going back to get-- oh! He has more wishes! Not more cards, he has more wishes!
Travis: Yes!
Sam: And he should give one to us. What would you wish for?
Travis: Well. (haltingly) For peace on Exandria, right?
Sam: You don't seem enthusiastic about that wish.
Travis: I want to live forever! Just never die! I just want to him to go, you will never die. I'm happy.
Sam: That's a better wish for you, for sure. And we have two of them.
Travis: Aren't you really old, though? You get company.
Sam: That's true. It'd be nice having you around for a bit.
Travis: What would you wish for?
Sam: Peace on--
Travis: I mean, enough of the bullshit.
Sam: Yeah, well, probably. Do you just get one wish? Because I could be a littler taller, a little buffer.
Travis: Yeah, I think maybe you can get real descriptive with it, too, so you can make it real complicated.
Sam: What would I wish for?
Travis: Maybe think about it while we're on our way. Yeah! How about we go and we pressure him and then if he doesn't bite, then we kill him.
Sam: Take this hat, it's the Hat of Disguise. Put it on, and you can look however you want to look.
Travis: I want to look like me. He's going to remember me.
Sam: Well, then never mind that.
Travis: You're the idea man.
Sam: I'm sorry! You're throwing a lot at me!
Travis: Warm it up, son. Let's get the bad ones out of the way right now. Shake it off.
Sam: All right. What do we need to intimidate him? Do you need me to be your enforcer?
Travis: Yeah! Or maybe my manservant. Can you make me look really amazing?
Sam: You already look amazing.
Travis: But rich and Wish Giver-y.
Sam: Yeah. Take this hat and put it on. (laughter)
Sam: And now you can look however you think you should look! (laughter)
Liam: Everybody at the table is broken! (laughter)
Travis: I want to look like a sultan.
Matt: It doesn't do anything. You have to attune to it. At this point in time, by the way, you watch as four armed guards start approaching.
Travis: I have a great record with these guys.
Laura: Oh no! Oh no!
Sam: Are they approaching us?
Matt: They're approaching you, and two on the sides are spreading out, and two are walking up with purpose towards you guys.
Sam: The popo. We haven't done anything wrong, we're just talking on the street! We're just two guys! Yeah! We haven't done any magic!
Matt: As the two come to the flank and stop, hands on the sides of their spears, the two that walked up the middle, there's one that looks to be a captain of some kind and this one to his right who's dressed in standard guard gear looks like he's got a few long-healed scars and he goes, "That looks just like him."
Sam: Oh no. What did you do?
Laura: What did you do?
Marisha: You were with him as Tary!
Sam: I wasn't there! (laughter)
Matt: The one in adorned armor. "Sir, might I have your name and purpose here in Vasselheim?"
Travis: (high-pitched) Peter Frostbucket! I seek Lord of the Quad Roads!
Matt: (giggling) Make a deception check with disadvantage.
Travis: I don't need it! Negative one! (laughter)
Sam: Oh my god. We're going to have to kill some guards, aren't we? (laughter)
Travis: Two and a one.
Marisha: They did that, not us!
Liam: Sarenrae comes down and says, never mind!
Taliesin: Your picture is going to be up in a small office by the gates.
Matt: The captain-looking individual goes, "Right, Mr. Frostbucket. We would like the both of you to please come with us." The two guards rush into your flank a bit and place their hands on your shoulder and your shoulder.
Sam: Me? I just met this man. I've never seen him before in my life.
Matt: "You've been walking with him for 20 minutes."
Sam: Thank you for coming over here. He was holding me hostage. He wouldn't let me leave. I'm a small man. I'm defenseless, and he was holding me captive.
Matt: You make a deception check.
Sam: Deception. Okay, 24.
Laura: Ooh, what is that eyebrow?
Matt: It's a natural 20! He goes, "Really. And what's your name?"
Sam: Gerald Butler. (laughter)
Matt: "Uh-huh. Well, Gerald Butler, the two of you should come with us." He turns around and starts walking away. The other guard with him, the one who spotted you earlier, walks with him, but keeps looking over his shoulder at you. He looks genuinely terrified of you. At this point, you realize, oh yeah, you've seen this guy before. The two other guards shove you forward, and as they push you a couple of steps in that direction, they lower their spears towards your back, "Keep moving!"
Travis: Oh, yeah, sorry. Aside from the four around us, is anyone around?
Matt: Yeah, there's probably roughly 20 to 25 different townsfolk.
Sam: We just were walking down the street! What happened?
Travis: This is profiling.
Sam: This is racial profiling.
Matt: You carve a figure.
Travis: Thank you.
Sam: You or me? All right.
Travis: I mean, mine's do one thing. You've got options.
Sam: All right. I will, I guess-- Jesus. It all seems so stupid.
Travis: I just want to go talk to the Lord of the Crossroads!
Taliesin: Critical Role  It all seems so stupid.
Matt: Yep! That's our catchphrase now.
Sam: All right, I will use some gigantic spell for no reason.
Marisha: Fighting gods one day, getting arrested in the street the other day.
Sam: I can help me fine, it's you I need to deal with.
Travis: Manipulate that guy that recognized us.
Sam: Sure, but I don't know what he knows! I don't know anything! All I know is he came over and fingered you.
Travis: He said, it looks like it's him.
Sam: All right. I will-- Jesus. Okay. Fuck! I don't know what to do without causing everyone around us to die or be scared! All right! Is there a leader?
Matt: Yeah, there's the captain. The one that looks scared looks over and says, "Is your other friend around? The other big one?"
Travis: Kind of blanched complexion, orange hair?
Matt: "Yeah with the--"
Travis: Hits people in the face?
Matt: "That one."
Travis: Somewhere around here.
Matt: Turns to the guard captain and goes, "There's another one around here. Possibly two."
Travis: You know, the thing about that one, though, he doesn't like to leave loose ends.
Matt: Make an intimidation check.
Travis: Goddamn it! 13!
Laura: Stop rolling that one!
Travis: No. I stay with my dice.
Sam: What did this other one look like?
Travis: This other one?
Sam: Yes, the other one, what did he look like?
Travis: Very tall and metallic-looking.
Sam: Metallic-looking?
Travis: Yep.
Sam: You mean, the one we just saw around the corner?
Travis: We did! I was not really aware at the time.
Sam: The super scary one?
Travis: Yeah! Well, now that you mention it, I felt a chill!
Sam: Please believe us. There is an even bigger danger coming, and I think-- oh yes, it's right there. And I will Major Image what I think he's describing, which is a tall Iron Man.
Matt: All right. (laughs) First, make a deception check to see if they look.
Sam: 20-- lots. 27.
Matt: You urging them on is just enough to get them to glance over and look, which gives you enough time to cast the spell and release this image, and from around the corner, with heavy footfalls, you watch as what appears to be some horrific-looking iron golem-type entity that's covered in spikes and darkness and giant fists. (heavy impacts) People start screaming and scattering, and the guards are all of a sudden. (gasping)
Travis: Oh no, his final change is complete!
Sam: Oh, he didn't look like this before?
Travis: No, it's much worse!
Sam: It's much worse? Yes, it's much worse!
Matt: At which point, suddenly you watch as its size expands even further. It has metal tusks that now protrude from the front of its face, and it's breathing steam and smoke, its eyes red and glowing. (huffing)
Travis: I trip and fall. Please, save yourselves! Run!
Matt: The guard captain there, immediately seeing this, reaches back and pulls a horn off his belt. (horn blows)
Travis: I'm going to kill him.
Sam: Don't kill him. We'll all die!
Travis: I reach up and snap the horn.
Matt: (horn blows, cracking)
Sam: Horns make him angrier! And I'll make the image go crazy with rage.
Matt: Angrily starts stomping around, not affecting anything directly.
Sam: The only way to calm it down is if we slowly walk away in different directions. (laughter)
Matt: Make a deception check with disadvantage.
Sam: Okay. 24.
Taliesin: (laughs) It's a 20.
Sam: It's a 20.
Laura: I bet it's a 20.
Travis: It's a 20. (laughter)
Taliesin: Oh god, this is everything I ever wanted!
Matt: He glances back at you, reaches back, and starts pulling a set of manacles from the side of his belt and glances over at this image, and you see the face of recognition, of somebody who now knows exactly what you were up to. This guy is not your petty wandering guard in the center of the street, and while two other guards have rushed up to try to push townsfolk out of the way, and they have their spears drawn at this thrashing entity, the captain goes, "Stop, it's not real." You now see a bunch of other guards that are now, after hearing the horn call, rushing around the sides of the street.
Travis: Well, you got us. Yep.
Sam: Should we turn ourselves in?
Travis: Yeah. Sure, yeah. Lock me up first.
Matt: He comes over.
Travis: (whack) (laughter)
Laura: No!
Matt: Roll an attack.
Laura: You're starting a war with all of the guards in Vasselheim?
Travis: I don't think that far ahead.
Sam: They started this war. We're finishing it.
Travis: 26.
Matt: Okay. Roll 1d4 damage with the Titanstone Gauntlets and add your strength modifier.
Laura: What are we going to do?
Taliesin: Let's hire new guards.
Travis: Ten.
Matt: Okay. The helmet he was wearing, which is carved around the face and eyes and nose, as you slam it with your fist, it caves in a bit, and he immediately hits the ground and is dazed.
Travis: Got to go.
Matt: The other guards, who were looking at him when he shouted that, saw you deck him in the side of the head, and they immediately start rushing to his aid as the other guards are coming in on the side of the street. What are you guys doing?
Sam: Are there any buildings around here?
Matt: There are plenty of buildings around here. You guys are still walking through the Quad Roads, and the Quad Roads is the most populated portion of the city. The worship here of Erathis is generally about civilization. There's a lot of people and a lot of buildings around. What are you going to do?
Sam: (sighs) You're bigger. All right, I will do the old classic. I'm going to Polymorph Grog into a giant eagle. The old standby. The giant eagle trick, if you'll accept it.
Travis: I'll get smarter. Sure.
Matt: All right. Grog, once again, you feel the wings extend. You're free to fly, and huh! That's how numbers work. You leap onto his back as the guards are coming up, and you (wing beats) take up. As you guys begin to fly up, the illusion vanishes immediately, and all of the guards that are rushing up stop, see this happening, and start switching over to their various crossbows and ranged implements.
Sam: Sure. Yeah. I've got nothing.
Matt: Literally, that escalated quickly. All right, so a bunch of shots trying to be taken at both of you. I'm going to say six to each from the crossbows. What's the giant eagle's AC, Marisha?
Taliesin: Oh gosh, you are keeper of the giant eagle AC.
Laura: Is the giant eagle small enough to Dimension Door?
Sam: Nope.
Matt: I rolled a perception check for that one guard, and he rolled really high and saw you walking down the street and was like, "Oh fuck." And went and got the captain.
Travis: I should have killed him back at the shop.
Taliesin: Is that the takeaway from this? You should have killed the guard? I'm just checking.
Travis: I'm pretty sure this problem wouldn't have existed.
Matt: All right, so two shots hit the eagle for seven and six. 13 points of piercing damage.
Marisha: You are at 27.
Taliesin: Oh wait, is that the--
Marisha: Wait. Nope, I lied. How many points?
Liam: 13.
Marisha: You're at half. You're at 13 hit points.
Travis: I have 13 left?
Laura: It's going to break your concentration.
Taliesin: This is the most hilarious thing I've ever seen.
Liam: Next week, a prison break.
Marisha: Normally, I'm the one who's arrested. Mixing it up.
Matt: 23 points of piercing damage. I need you to go ahead and make four concentration checks, with advantage.
Sam: What do I add? Nothing, right?
Matt: It's your constitution saving throw.
Sam: Saving throw. Okay. 19.
Matt: You're okay.
Sam: More for that one. 17. More.
Matt: Okay, you're fine. You maintain concentration. The eagle form flies up. You guys are now beginning to rise up over the city, and you're getting further out of the range of any sort of ranged weaponry to be immediately effective, but you don't know how long before other, bigger guns are brought into the fray. What are you going to do? You look down over the whole Quad Roads and you can now see, the whole city of Vasselheim almost looks like a top-heavy X with the mountain range at the top. The Quad Roads is where that X meets at the base. What are you doing?
Sam: Oh, you can't talk. Shit. Land us in an alley somewhere, and we'll change our appearance, I suppose.
Travis: (squawks)
Matt: Make an investigation check. What's the eagle's intelligence modifier? This would be perception, actually.
Marisha: Is this wisdom? Well, they have keen sight, so they have advantage on wisdom checks, and the wisdom is plus two. Although, don't you maintain--
Matt: No, you do in wild shape. Polymorph, you do not.
Marisha: So plus two, and you have advantage.
Matt: What's the bonus to perception?
Marisha: They just have advantage on perception checks.
Travis: 16.
Matt: 16. Easy enough, you glance around with your eagle eyes, and you see what appears to be a darkened alleyway that is in a cluster of heavily residential buildings. You dive down. You hold on, (screams) going down into this free fall, the wind rushing past you. You have to grab your hat to make sure it doesn't fly off your head, and then you dive down into the alleyway. Come and land, and you watch as two children that were playing with sticks glance over and go, "Oh!"
Sam: Run along, now.
Matt: (screams) And they run out of the alleyway, screaming around the corner.
Sam: I release Polymorph.
Travis: Thank you.
Sam: You didn't tell me that the guards all hated you.
Travis: Only one, apparently. That is what happens when you leave things alive.
Sam: You're right. We've learned a lesson today.
Travis: Look, should we still look for the Lord of the Quad Roads?
Sam: I feel like that ship has sailed.
Travis: Which ship?
Sam: Maybe not. (sighs) Maybe we should go find the others.
Travis: All right. Temple of Sarenrae? Where is that?
Sam: I know where it is. I've shat there before. (laughter)
Travis: Should I wear the hat, since I am apparently a wanted person now?
Sam: Why don't I just make us both invisible?
Travis: Can you do that?
Sam: Sure.
Travis: Aces.
Sam: All right. 3rd-level Invisibility, right? I can do me and another person?
Matt: I believe so, yeah. All right, so you both turn invisible and you make your way towards the temple of Sarenrae.
Travis: Damn it.
Matt: As you guys are leaving the temple, this wonderful appearance, you see commotion in the distance, and you see guards rushing from street to street.
Laura: What's happening here?
Marisha: Do you think that guy went and alerted everyone about Vecna?
Taliesin: Either that, or that guard we left alive that one time ran into Grog and sounded the alarm. It was probably Vecna.
Marisha: Probably Vecna. Vecna's a much bigger problem, right?
Taliesin: What would be the odds of that one guard seeing him? This is a very big city.
Sam: (clears throat) It was the guard.
Matt: You guys hear this voice out of nowhere.
Sam: It's us. We're here. We're next to you, but we're invisible.
Marisha: Did you get allegiance from the Lord of the Crossroads? Right?
Sam: Not exactly.
Laura: I'm reaching down for a head.
Matt: You don't find a head, but you find Grog.
Travis: Thanks, Vex. You know, he was "indiposed." We should go.
Taliesin: Are you sure? We could spend some time here.
Travis: Nope!
Laura: Don't you want to talk to Kord?
Taliesin: Have a drink, see the local color?
Travis: I can't really look like me in this city right now. I punched a captain of the guard.
Laura: You punched--
Marisha: You were gone for what, 45 minutes?
Travis: Was it that long?
Liam: It was like 30.
Ashley: It happened so fast.
Sam: There was an incident, in which we scared many innocent people and assaulted several guards, and they shot us with crossbows, and we are bleeding.
Liam: We just said goodbye to you.
Sam: I'm over here, actually. (laughter)
Laura: Let's fucking get out of here. Are we just going to try to bamf to the fucking fields, or are we going to talk to Melora, or are we going to bamf to the fields and then go talk to Melora?
Marisha: Melora doesn't exist on that plane.
Laura: I know, but we'll have to come back here.
Taliesin: I think the priests of the temple are going to alert-- give them the basic story of Vecna.
Liam: And also, dear. The communication system that you and Percival and Tary set up. Is it here?
Marisha: No.
Liam: Where's the closest?
Marisha: The Fire Ashari. Why?
Liam: Well, we've got two things on our plate, right? We need to start--
Marisha: Alerting the cities.
Liam: Yes.
Laura: Maybe you can send a message. Do you have that ability?
Marisha: No.
Taliesin: To the Fire Ashari, and then to the fields of Elysium?
Liam: Yes.
Taliesin: To the Fire Ashari, then to the fields of Elysium.
Marisha: All right, let's mist there.
Laura: Is it fast to mist to the Fire Ashari?
Taliesin: Just I Dream of Jeannie us there.
Sam: Wait, we're going to the Ashari? What happened with Sarenrae?
Taliesin: That's next.
Liam: We're going to do that, we're just getting the word out.
Marisha: Misting to the Fire Ashari is not that long, right?
Matt: In mist form, it won't take you but a few hours.
Marisha: That's what I thought. A couple of hours.
Matt: More than that. Like four hours or so.
Sam: We're just getting a message to them?
Taliesin: We're going to alert all of the major cities of the continents that things have gone pear-shaped.
Marisha: Maybe we should Tree Stride there.
Liam: While you were selling stuff on the black market, Keyleth and Freddie here have been building this system. They built it. In all the major cities, they can get out an alarm.
Sam: Pretty cool.
Marisha: I take that back. We Tree Stride.
Matt: Okay, then.
Marisha: Transport Via Plants. I always say that wrong. Tree Stride's a 5th-level spell.
Matt: Tree Stride rolls off the tongue.
Taliesin: Tree Stride.
Marisha: Tree Stride.
Taliesin: Stride like a tree. Seriously, that text is really tiny. I've never taken it into account. It makes me feel old.
Marisha: I have a lot of stuff going on.
Laura: Let's go!
Matt: Okay. So as you guys step through the rapidly created doorway from one of the nearby trees here in the Quad Roads, as you're heading southward into that space, you pull through the portal and end up falling outside of the Cindergrove, in the cauldron that contains the city of Pyrah, of the Fire Ashari. Within a short time, you find yourself to the actual city of Pyrah and make your way towards the home of Cerkonos.
Marisha: I immediately look for Cerkonos, tell him what happened, light the fire orbs. The chaos orbs. Crisis orbs.
Matt: Crisis orbs. No worries. Speaking with him and letting him know the circumstance, he nods. "I do not know the extent in which this danger will present itself, but we will light these orbs with what information we can. We rely upon you, soon, to fill in the gaps of information."
Marisha: The city--
Taliesin: Thar Amphala.
Marisha: Thar Amphala.
Laura: Thar Amphala.
Marisha: Thar Amphala.
Marisha: I believe it teleported somewhere in the northern hemisphere. Somewhere in a cold region. We think Wildemount.
Laura: It was snowing.
Taliesin: We barely escaped.
Marisha: You might want to check in with our contacts there. They might have the best knowledge.
Matt: "In Wildemount, you say? It is a far way away."
Marisha: Well, that's why we're alerting you first.
Matt: "We will put up the orbs and try and gather what information we have."
Liam: Let people know. Do you remember how bad the Conclave was? That's what we're talking about here.
Marisha: Possibly worse.
Matt: "Very well."
Marisha: After this, I'm retiring.
Liam: I'm getting too old for this shit.
Marisha: We are going to be going to the blessed fields of Elysium from here.
Matt: "I don't know where that is, but good luck."
Marisha: Thank you.
Sam: Dungeon Master, where's Vasselheim on this map?
Matt: Vasselheim is in Issylra, which is the upper left.
Sam: All the way up here? And didn't his internal compass say 350 miles northwest?
Matt: Yep.
Sam: So we kind of know where he is, right? Northwest?
Matt: Vasselheim is-- I'll have to show you where it is. Vasselheim resides on this side.
Sam: Oh, so it's up at the peak?
Matt: Possibly.
Sam: Maybe up here.
Laura: Whoa.
Marisha: Okay, he might not be in Wildemount. I don't know.
Taliesin: He's in the north.
Marisha: 350 miles northwest.
Sam: There's a real map here.
Matt: "I will light this beacon. Stay safe, and good luck."
Marisha: If you speak to the other Ashari and my father, let him know.
Matt: "Immediately."
Marisha: Thank you, Cerkonos. Kaitiaki.
Matt: "Kaitiaki."
Laura: Kaitiaki.
Ashley: Kaitiaki.
Marisha: Let's go.
Laura: Plane Shift?
Sam: We're still invisible.
Marisha: Do we need anything else?
Laura: No, this is not going to be dangerous, right? We're just going to talk to some friendly people.
Marisha: It's a good plane of existence.
Matt: You Plane Shift? All right, as you all put your hands in each other's, you feel the familiar sense of your physical form being drawn through the barrier of the Prime Material Plane, and much like when you transitioned to the Nine Hells, you feel yourselves pulled into this temporary space, this darkness, this sea of endless void with a distant blinking of stars that shimmer. You understand this as being the Astral Sea.
Ashley: (whispering) This is the Astral Sea.
Matt: They don't hear you say it because this is so fast. You have no reason to have a conversation. There before you, you see the glimmering, almost burning lattice of the Divine Gate come streaking towards you at immense speed, and you know you've passed through comfortably once before, so you hope and brace for impact and pass through again, that warmth almost coming to a similar state of burning, but then leaving you behind. And just as fast, as it passes by you, you land, your feet hitting ground, ground that gives.
Laura: Three-point landing.
Matt: Okay. (impact) The ground gives a bit with the impact, and as your eyes focus a bit on the brightness around you, you can see above you a clear blue sky, not a cloud in sight. Your hands and feet a few inches deep into the sand-like beach of some sort of an island, it seems. But it is not sand. They're granules, pebbles, of what appear to be shining pearls. An entire beach of pearls.
Laura: It really is heaven.
Ashley: This is so beautiful.
Matt: The water laps the edge of the shore not but five feet behind you, an ocean that is clear and lagoon-like. It's paradise. Looking ahead, you can see the once-crumbling island, now finding renewed strength with the renewed faith. You can see, while there are no trees on this island, the hills themselves seem to carry what seem to be old, statuesque structures. Small temple-like oddities that have been swallowed by time and the ravages of the Calamity, slowly emerging like jagged bits of earth that have been plunged up by seismic activity. Beyond these hills, you see what looks to you, familiar: a gargantuan crystal cathedral that resembles the torso of a woman, but where the head is, it spires into a singular point, and from the inside, you see the flickering glow of what seems to be a raging inferno that flickers like a heartbeat from the inside of this crystal citadel. Here you stand on the shores of the Island of Renewal, and that's where we're going to end tonight's session. (impressed noises)
Laura: How pretty! Last episode was so ugly, and this episode's so pretty.
Liam: You used to be a 4th or 5th-level cleric, and now we're here!
Laura: You talked to Sarenrae!
Ashley: I know. That is crazy!
Laura: That's crazy.
Liam: Started in Stillben, now we're here!
Marisha: Wow.
Laura: Wow.
Sam: How far we've come.
Travis: Look how far I've come!
Marisha: Let's just give Vecna the Prime Material Plane. Let's stay here! New plan. New plan: stay here.
Taliesin: New plan  mimosas.
Matt: Scanlan and Grog. Sam and Travis, left alone to their devices.
Taliesin: Wow.
Sam: We couldn't even walk across town!
Travis: I was just trying to go see a man about a wish. The trouble just comes to us.
Matt: As you were having this conversation, I'm like, oh, it would be so funny if-- yeah, they're not being careful. They're walking through the street.
Travis: I forgot that Doty knocked out the guards, so I should have been like, oh, we rescued you from this horror.
Matt: Doty knocked out the guards originally, it was just that they followed you as you were following them, and you're an accomplice.
Travis: I didn't actually do anything because they were unconscious.
Matt: Except for the shopkeeper that saw you.
Travis: Again, got to kill them all.
Sam: For sure. Now we know.
Travis: I think we've all learned a valuable lesson.
Matt: No, we haven't.
Taliesin: No one's learned anything of value.
Sam: How are we going to get you those wishes?
Travis: He might have already used them.
Taliesin: Probably used them. Probably really wanted some ice cream.
Matt: I look forward for the viable possibility for you returning for that conversation, because that's going to be extremely funny. Anyway, guys. Well done. So much fun. Thank you so much.
Laura: Not a single dice in the dice jail.
Matt: Nope!
Sam: Yeah, and only one of us is an undead ghost now.
Liam: I'm not undead!
Laura: (singing) Oh my god, my brother's a lich. He's such a lich.
Taliesin: Tell it to the necromancer, pal.
Liam: I have a heartbeat, a slow heartbeat, and meat.
Matt: He's Vax, but on a lot of Quaaludes. (laughter)
Matt: Anyway, guys. Thank you so much for watching. We'll see you soon. Have a wonderful weekend and a wonderful 4th of July.
Marisha: You're going to be at AX!
Matt: Yeah, I'll be at AX for the Persona panel on Saturday.
Marisha: Also, Meg and Wendy are going to have a booth there, so you can go to Artists' Alley. I think they said 11am? Go onto their Twitter. But anyway, they're going to be there.
Laura: David Mack posters.
Sam: One more day.
Laura: One more day! Not even a full day!
Liam: (singing) One day more.
Travis: (singing) One day more.
Marisha: I've lost my druid die!
Matt: You guys, good job, tonight. It was great.
Sam: Happy birthday, Matthew.
All: Happy birthday!
Marisha: Actually, Max! Is this still a thing?
Sam: He quit.
Taliesin: At the break, he said "I quit" and he walked out.
Laura: Is Max still here?
Marisha: Apparently the Critters got you ice cream.
Matt: What?!
Marisha: Someone got you ice cream.
Laura: What kind of ice cream?
Marisha: Ben and Jerry's.
Matt: I want ice cream.
Ryan: He's gone!
Laura: Ice cream's gone.
Marisha: Our producer is gone.
Matt: He just ran with my ice cream. You know, I respect that. Well, thank you. Thank you to whoever sent ice cream. And thank you for all the amazing messages. Today has been an absolute flood of positivity.
Laura: You're so old.
Matt: I know. I'm so old. For a very busy day, it was good to see that. So thank you guys so much; you're all amazing. And have a wonderful week, and is it Thursday yet? Good night. [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons. I think we're recording, because my camera light's not on, but nevertheless, welcome. (laughs)
Travis: We're totally recording.
Matt: I'm pretty sure we are. Anyway guys, welcome, we have a fantastic guest who will be joining us later this evening, but before we get to that we have announcements to go over real fast. First and foremost, tonight's episode is sponsored by a new sponsor, a fantastic group called Quidd! If you want to talk about that first?
Sam: Hi, guys. Vacation Sam here. Quidd is our sponsor tonight, a fantastic new sticker app for your phone. You can check it out at bitly, that's bit.ly/crquidd. I didn't know much about the company, but Quidd sounded vaguely British, so little-known fact about me, I have access to the BBC archives at home, so I did some snooping and sure enough, I found a World War II newsreel transcript that talked about Quidd, so I thought I would do a dramatic reading of it for you right now.
Liam: Here we go.
Sam: News from the front! This is Nigel J. Creamhutch reporting from BBC London. March 23, 1944 may be a turning point in WWII as PM Churchill announces a new weapon in the fight against those devilish Nazis. They're calling it Quidd, a new app where you can collect stickers, cards and Funko figures on your telephone device. Our lads on the frontlines are already using it! We spoke with Lieutenant Neville Bingham of the Royal Navy. Right, yeah, Quidd's this free app available on the Apple App Store and Google Play, and it's helping us drive Hitler back to Berlin. But it's not just our Tommies. The Reds have discovered Quidd as well! We spoke with tank commander Ivan Bashenko. With Quidd, Russian army is strongest in world. Morale better now with thousands of stickers to collect that can be used like emojis in messages to your friends. Stalingrad will not fall with these cute stickers! Why, they're even using Quidd across the pond! We spoke with American sergeant John Smith, an American Doughboy. I'm John, an American. We American GIs love to collect stickers from brands like Rick and Morty, Bob's Burgers, Family Guy, Breaking Bad, Star Trek, and newly announced Game of Thrones. Take that, Emperor Hirohito! Well, there you have it, ladies and gents. Your British Armed Forces and our allies will defeat the Nazis and win the Second Great War if you go to bit.ly/crquidd and check out Quidd. Good night, good luck, and god save the queen, pip pip! (cheering)
Travis: I'm so glad that's available on the BBC.
Sam: Yeah, it was a weird transcript. I would have shown the newsreel, but it was just a transcript.
Matt: Fair enough. Well, thank you for the update on that, and thank you, Quidd for sponsoring tonight's episode. Really appreciate it.
Liam: Did they win the war?
Sam: Find out next time! (laughter)
Matt: All righty, let's see. Do you have any merch updates at all, Laura?
Laura: There's stuff in the store!
Matt: There you go. Perfect. Good, I like it, thank you. The Green Ronin Campaign Guide. Pre-orders go up on Monday, guys!
All: What!
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: Yes, and if you get the book and the pdf, I think the pdf is available immediately, so some of you will have access to actually read the book on Monday.
Laura: Are you so nervous, Matt?
Matt: I'm so nervous. (laughs nervously)
Taliesin: People can actually, in real time, call us when we're wrong on our own stuff.
Travis: What do you mean, finally? They do that every week.
Marisha: Finally? Although you are Taliesin Jaffe.
Taliesin: This is a level of pain I've only dreamed of; I'm very excited.
Liam: Hey. We're so proud of you.
Travis: Yeah, nice job with the words and stuff.
Sam: Hold on though, we haven't read it yet. What if it's terribly written, by a child?
Laura: We'll find out he used crayon. It's all written in marker.
Matt: Probably. Do you know how hard it is to get crayon printed these days?
Marisha: Only if the writers' room dropped the ball.
Matt: Well, I hope you guys enjoy it, so look forward to that. The podcast is now episodes 11 through 20, right? Up on the Apple Store. So you can go ahead and download those, which are awesome.
Marisha: Yep, Apple and Google Play.
Matt: Yes. And those are the ones. Of course we'll have Talks Machina next Tuesday at 7:00pm about this episode tonight, here on Twitch and Alpha, 7:00pm Pacific, with our fantastic host Brian Foster, so you can check that out. Wednesday Club next week for you?
Taliesin: Wednesday Club, we're talking about Comic Con, because Comic Con is coming up, and we're going to try and give you a first-timer's guide to Comic Con: If you've never been to one, what to expect, what to do for fun, and all sorts of things that you could see or do in San Diego. Other than us. Thank you, I was very proud of last night.
Matt: We're not having a show next week, we're going to be at Comic Con. Yeah, we have a week off. So we'll miss you guys next week, but we do have our Critical Role panel on Saturday at Comic Con, it's at 10:30am in Room 6...
Travis: BC... E.
Matt: It's a nice big room. You guys should come, we're going to have silly questions, Q and A, conversations, stories and a lot of funness and some cool surprises!
Sam: Prizes?
Taliesin: Prizes?
Matt: Surprises!
Marisha: Oh yeah, we have some announcements.
Matt: So hopefully you guys can make it at San Diego Comic Con. If you're going to be there we'd love to see you. And last but not least, Sagas of Sundry: Dread. The third episode went up today.
Matt: (perfect unison) Shit's getting real.
Marisha: (perfect unison) Shit's getting real.
Matt: I'm going to marry you. (laughter)
Matt: What's that? Oh that's right, and at GenCon next month we have our live show, we mentioned it last week. Tickets are still on sale for the general admission. We're looking forward to having you guys there, it's Friday evening.
Travis: Yeah, it's Friday evening, 7 30. In fact, we got an even bigger theatre this year. The last theatre had 1,500 seats, we're like, oh, we'll never get that many people, and it went (explosion sound). It filled up, so we got a 2,500 seat theatre. It's massive, it's a huge party, if you didn't join us last year, you want to come to this mayhem. It's so much fun. You don't need passes to GenCon, by the way, you don't have to have a badge or anything for that, it's a standalone thing. There are definitely tickets still available, it's going to be super fun.
Sam: I feel like with that many people we should have beach balls in the audience, and they can do the wave.
Matt: Inflatable d20s to throw out there...
Marisha: (gasps) You can get them. They're on ThinkGeek I think.
Matt: This is a terrible idea.
Travis: It's a great idea!
Matt: Anyway, without further ado, I think that concludes our announcements, and as such, let us dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome back. So where we left off last time. Vox Machina, having finally encountered the Undying King, returned in physical form in the Shadowfell, did battle and fled, quite unprepared for that venture, and gathered some tidbits of information about what Vecna's plans may be. Upon returning and discovering that your disintegrated Vax has returned through some deal he made with his patron the Raven Queen after disintegrating, you decided to go ahead and try and gather more information about this and beseech some of the higher powers within Exandria. Pike talked to Sarenrae and was given the invitation to come visit her in Elysium on the Island of Renewal, and upon gathering your materials and causing a mess in Vasselheim, you got together and went to meet this fantastic Everlight. On her island, you spoke with her. She gathered some information from you, as Vecna seemed to be blocking at least the influence and vision from a lot of the deities, and then gave her blessing unto Pike, transferring you over to one of the other gods that lives among the Blessed Fields of Elysium: Pelor, the Dawnfather. You then walked through the orchards that led to the Fortress of the Sun where he resides, spoke with some of the guardians there, and were led into the center of the citadel, where you met, in the central throne room under the Zenith Tower, Pelor himself. Upon exchanging information, you spoke of your need to gather the favor of certain gods in the battles to come, and were given a challenge. To step up to plate: Vex'ahlia. You accepted the challenge and racing to the top of the tower, the zenith, before the fires could be extinguished in the brazier that awaited you, you threw yourself into the fire, and upon the party speaking on what it was that made Vex'ahlia such an important member of not just your team, but your family, and gave you strength, she was imbued with a blessing of the Dawnfather himself. After which, we left off as you exited the front of the Fortress of the Sun, stepped into the central glade that marks the center of the seemingly endless orchards that surround this region, and Vox Machina, what would you like to do?
Travis: Eat all of the fruit.
Laura: No.
Travis: It was really good. It was just fruit, by the way. Like I said.
Sam: We're still in heaven right now?
Laura: We're still in Elysium.
Taliesin: It's not quite heaven.
Travis: Are there any other gods here that we should curry favor with? For? Of?
Laura: Are there any more gods here? Not that we know of.
Sam: We forgot to ask.
Travis: Did we?
Laura: Yeah. I don't think Ioun is here.
Matt: You're looking at the series of the Sun Tree cousins, one of which you've met, scattered amongst this glade surrounding the central citadel.
Marisha: What a douche.
Sam: No other people? Guards? Nothing.
Matt: You have the guards behind you, the large planetar and deva entities that stand there, armored in their golden plate, after ushering you out, are standing guard.
Laura: Maybe we can ask them.
Sam: Sure. I'll go up to one and say, hello there, big fellow.
Matt: Standing a full ten feet taller than you, practically, the wings slightly bent, the large planar entity kneels down. "Hello."
Sam: Hello. Vacation Scanlan here. Couple questions. By the way, was he one of the ones who fought in there?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: Oh. Do they all look alike? 17 plus one.
Matt: Hard to tell. You didn't pay a lot of attention.
Sam: Okay. Hey, just wondering, a few questions. A: How does one get out of here? Is there a door to another plane?
Matt: "I imagine the same way you came in."
Sam: A god brought us here. All right, cool. Number two: Are there any other like your Dawnfather around here? Any other gods in the area?
Matt: "Across Elysium, there are two deities that call it home: the Dawnfather and the Everlight."
Sam: So we covered our bases. Out of curiosity What are you called?
Matt: He looks very closely, and you get sense that part of its nature is scanning through you; it's getting a sense and a read of you as an individual, and it says, "No one you need to worry about." Stands up and then takes two steps back (heavy footfalls) into place and looks straight ahead.
Marisha: Scanlan, you should remember that line, that's a good one.
Sam: Yeah. I already forgot it. I'm too intimidated. Was it no one or something? I don't know. Well, good speaking to you.
Matt: Still looks out. Doesn't respond.
Sam: Well, how do we get out of here? Can she take us home?
Marisha: Yeah.
Liam: She does on the daily.
Sam: I know, but I don't know. They talked about some sort of a gate that keeps the gods out and the bad gods in.
Matt: To remind you of what happened last time. There was talking about possibly... or at least there was the Trammel, the Prime Trammels that were used previously to seal the Chained Oblivion, Tharizdun, and that the orchestrator, the designer of those was Ioun, the Knowing Goddess. Ioun, however, has sealed herself away, being a wounded god, long recovering, and the only information that Pelor has of where she hid herself, the key, essentially, is not an object but a person. You're seeking an individual, of which you were given a solar light map of a single small home in a forest ravine not far from a place that you've noticed was near the Pools of Wittebak, which is in the Cliffkeep Mountains.
Sam: Yeah, but there was also a mention of some Divine Gate that keeps people from--
Matt: Well, the Divine Gate is a known existing entity. It's essentially a large gate that prevents the gods from returning to the Prime Material Plane.
Liam: It's like a metaphysical screen door that keeps flies out.
Laura: So the gods can't get in and out.
Sam: Sure, sure.
Marisha: Yeah, the Prime Trammel. Which we now have to get--
Laura: We have to get near the the Cliffkeep Range, near the Pools of Wittebak, is where we need to go.
Marisha: And the Cliffkeep is not too far from Whitestone?
Matt: Cliffkeep Mountains go across a lot of the northern side of Tal'Dorei, from what you're familiar with. Like, we're talking Kraghammer to Gatshadow to the Jorenn Village. There's a lot of things. It's like a big horizontal mountain range that caps the top part of the continent.
Marisha: Do I recognize the city that I can get us to that's close?
Matt: Fort Daxio or Kraghammer.
Sam: Haven't been to Kraghammer for a while, although Daxio might be worth a check.
Taliesin: What's closest to the pools?
Matt: Probably Terrah or the Pools of Wittebak. Those are the two that are closest.
Laura: What is Terrah?
Marisha: My home.
Matt: Terrah's not your home.
Marisha: Sorry. Sorry, Terrah is the Earth Ashari.
Sam: My other home, summer home.
Matt: The home away from home.
Liam: Can you also remind me where my Vecdar made me feel Vecna-- where on the Prime Material Plane?
Matt: Yes. Oh, where?
Liam: Yeah, we talked about it, but I can't remember.
Matt: You did, yes. It seemed to be hundreds of miles northwest of Vasselheim. You didn't sense any movement, but you knew the general direction and distance.
Liam: And that was yesterday.
Matt: Correct.
Laura: Teacher?
Matt: Yes, Laura?
Laura: I was excited the last game and somehow have misplaced my Pelor champion piece of paper.
Liam: Oh, she doesn't get to have it now. That's how that works.
Laura: I don't know how it happened! It's not with my stuffs.
Matt: That's okay, I remember what it does, and if you decide to use it--
Laura: You'll tell me? Okay.
Matt: I won't tell you. You tell me you want to use it.
Laura: Oh shit, okay. I'm sorry. I had it, and it's not here.
Taliesin: It's weird how he's so nice and yet it still feels like you are in so much trouble.
Laura: I'm in a lot of trouble, you guys.
Liam: He's calm, but indifferent. Like the Dawnfather.
Matt: All right, so what would you like to do?
Travis: Yeah, what would we like to do?
Marisha: Should we go to Terrah? Check in with them, I guess, while we're there?
Taliesin: Seems prudent.
Marisha: And talk to Pa'tice.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: All right. We ready to go?
Taliesin: I'm very ready to go. This is lovely and everything, but I've had my fill.
Marisha: I will burn my 8th-level spell slot to Plane Shift us to Terrah.
Matt: To Terrah, all righty.
Marisha: Mind the gap.
Taliesin: What gap?
Marisha: Don't worry about it.
Travis: No effects from eating that fruit, right?
Matt: No, you didn't sense any effects from that fruit, at the moment.
Travis: Didn't remove a curse or anything?
Matt: No, you didn't. Nothing really caught you up to speed, in that.
Laura: Are we by those fruit trees again?
Matt: There are no fruit-bearing trees directly near you. The Sun Trees are around you. Further in they do, yes. All righty. Bringing up my notes on Terrah, since that's where you're going.
Marisha: Yeah, I should probably--
Laura: I'm so confused about the order of things. If we go to Ioun, and we don't have everything we need for this Prime Trammel, are we fucked? I know we need godly power in order to imbue them, right? Or something?
Liam: Either here or soon we need to sit and work this out.
Sam: What do we need to bring into the trammel?
Laura: Well, Pelor gave me this. Snap, snap, snap, zip. This. It's a stone and it's supposed to be strong enough to--
Liam: Power the trammel?
Laura: Part of it? Not all of it.
Marisha: We need to collect more, though, right? We have to get like eight or something.
Sam: Wait, it said that?
Matt: You weren't given any indication as to how many you needed.
Laura: But it did seem like this is not enough.
Marisha: Oh no, wait, Ioun was healing for eight centuries. That's where I got that number. Sorry.
Travis: I could do it, too. Five. Five stones of power.
Matt: All right, so as you complete your spell, Keyleth, you step through the base of the nearest tree, possibly the same one you spoke with earlier if you want to be a dick about it.
Marisha: Oh yeah! Let's walk through that asshole. That sounds worse for us. But fuck it.
Matt: All right, you aggressively stampede through the center of this one tree and emerge on the other side from one of the surrounding trees on the Terrah village. There are a number of these pseudo-petrified or dried-out large-trunk trees that seem to have slowly died off from the heavy tectonic shifts and small quakes that happen in this area, that have made a lot of the land unable to support large forms of plant life, or at least the trees that used to exist here. So you step out and emerge from the exterior of the village as it domes down into this small crater that you recall seeing before, where most of the village inhabits the central portion, and the village is there before you.
Marisha: What were the shard things called again?
Matt: The shard things?
Marisha: The things we need to collect?
Matt: There wasn't really a name for them more than they're small pieces of essence of the deity.
Marisha: So we need pieces of god.
Liam: Does the little seed of light given to my sister look anything like the little seed that Scanlan and Vax saw from riding the shadow creature in the sky?
Matt: No. In a sense that it's a small source of power of some kind, but what you saw there was maybe about that large on the platform. What she has is bead size.
Laura: Is it this size? Or this size?
Matt: Comparable to each. So you stand outside of Terrah. What are you doing?
Sam: What time of day is it? How tired are we?
Matt: Based on when you left, it would still be probably-- well, you were over in Vasselheim, which means it's getting dark, actually. I'd say with the way the sun has passed through the sky now, you've just gotten past dusk. There's still light in the sky, but it's going from oranges to purples to dark blues on the horizon, and you can see hints of firelight, torchlight and candlelight from within the actual city below.
Sam: Well, what are we going to need on this trip? Maybe we should get whatever supplies we need. Is it far? Are we going to become gas?
Travis: Are we going underground?
Marisha: Oh, to Terrah?
Sam: No, we'e in Terrah. But the next day, we're going to the--
Taliesin: To the pools.
Marisha: Do we want to stay the night here, then? I can't mist us right now. I'm tapped out. Camp here.
Laura: Vax? Can you sense Vecna? Is he still in the same place?
Liam: I can sense him?
Matt: You can sense him. He is, from your current location, thousands of miles from you.
Laura: Oh, hard to tell, then?
Liam: He's still really shitty, though.
Matt: Yeah, very heavy west-northwest direction from you, currently.
Sam: Well, sleep? Do we need to get any intel on where these pools are? Do we need anything?
Laura: We should maybe talk to the people of Terrah? It's not that late.
Marisha: Yeah, let's go. They have a spare room for us.
Travis: Are you the leader of all the people?
Marisha: I'm the leader of the Air Ashari and the Voice of the Tempest.
Travis: Is that a yes or a no? You don't have to fucking brag.
Marisha: No, there's four of us, and I'm one of the four.
Sam: Do you know the one who lives here?
Marisha: I do.
Sam: Then let's go see him or her. Or they.
Marisha: No, we can just go, like I was saying five minutes ago. Let's just go.
Matt: All right. So as you walk down into the village, a number of the guardians step out quickly, seeing an approaching party, however, recognizing Keyleth and her station immediately, turn into an escort that leads you to the center portion of the village.
Marisha: I request Pa'tice.
Matt: Quickly enough, they go and retrieve Pa'tice. You see the elderly form of the leader you've met before step out, the graying hair, the weathered dark skin tones, the long greens and brown leathers that drape off, showing hints of the knees and lower feet, the large walking staff that he carries at his side as he approaches and the headdress that seems to be a combination of thick twines and shale shards that have been woven in, steps forward. "Keyleth. An unexpected visit, most definitely."
Marisha: Kaitiaki.
Matt: "Kaitiaki."
Marisha: Pa'tice, I am so sorry for the late intrusion. We've just gotten back from the plane of Elysium, so we're a little tired. Yeah, we're fighting a god right now, well, more of like a demi-god, so have you heard of Vecna? Sorry, I'm probably getting ahead of myself. Do you have any food? Let's talk over dinner.
Matt: "We have food, yes. You are guests of Terrah. Please, we will provide whatever you require. Come, provide them a meal!" And he puts his hand out and they run off quickly.
Taliesin: I like that people just feed us. We show up, and there's food.
Sam: You've been used to that your whole life.
Taliesin: Not at home.
Sam: I have to sing for dinner. You just say--
Taliesin: Have you ever tried not singing for dinner?
Sam: Maybe I'll get more food.
Taliesin: You might!
Liam: You did have one year-ish where you were on the skids. You did your Prince and the Pauper bit for a little bit.
Taliesin: It's a big vague, but yes. I was on a boat for quite a while.
Travis: Oh my god, can we eat food? (laughter)
Matt: And quick as that, you guys make your way down. It's a modest meal, but it's a meal nonetheless. Mostly hunted creatures of the local mountainside, some dried beets and root.
Marisha: We always try to source locally.
Taliesin: Charmingly provincial.
Matt: (laughs)
Laura: Keyleth, perhaps you should let your people know that the world is in danger.
Marisha: So the world's in danger, as she said--
Sam: The waiter is like, what?
Liam: Runs out the door.
Marisha: Aw shit! I just induced panic.
Matt: Pa'tice, who's sat down with you, says quickly, "We have been made aware via the other Ashari that there is some danger possibly coming. We are awaiting word of what to do other than keep ourselves in a defensive position. We have to guard the rift, of course. But should there be a call to action, we'll do what we can. I'm unfamiliar with this Vecna, but whatever you plan, please be careful."
Marisha: (sighs) Okay. More than anything, I think I would want you all to be relief for the surrounding area and surrounding villages if anything disastrous were to happen. I know you have to guard the rift and that is insanely important and especially right now with someone like Vecna who could potentially abuse that. But if anything were to happen, I don't know if you could house extra people during a disaster.
Matt: "We are quite good at assembling makeshift and temporary lodging. The rock is our friend, if you will."
Marisha: Yeah, that's more, I think, what we would need.
Matt: "Of course, of course! Not a worry."
Marisha: Currently, Vecna is just north of Vasselheim, close to Pyrah.
Matt: "Have you asked Pyrah for aid, as well?"
Marisha: They've also been put on alert, but we have not personally been there yet since this has happened.
Matt: "Well. Good. They're closer. But we're happy to help if we can."
Marisha: Yeah. Thank you.
Laura: Things are happening very quickly. We just happened here first.
Matt: "We're happy to help. Where are you off to?"
Sam: The Pools of Wittebak.
Matt: "What brings you towards the Pools of Wittebak?"
Sam: You know this place?
Matt: "It is a series of poisoned wells and hulking, stupid giants."
Sam: Hulking, stupid giants?
Laura: Giants? At the pools?
Matt: "Yes."
Laura: I thought it was something about gnomes there.
Matt: "It was once."
Sam: They grew. (laughter)
Laura: Is that something you can do, Scanlan?
Sam: I don't know. (laughs)
Matt: "They're geothermic large puddles across the mountainside. Various minerals being lifted up from the deep waters beneath the mountain. Heated, bubbling, boiling, steaming. But the giants moved in hundreds of years ago, stomped around, and ended up filling the entire subterranean gnomish city of Wittebak with fumes and poison. Killed most of them, and the rest fled to Kraghammer."
Liam: Do you all ever broach the area or do you just stay clear of it?
Matt: "Best to avoid, we have our own business to deal with. And it's 100 miles from here. It's not much of an issue."
Taliesin: And the pools are naturally poisonous?
Matt: "Well, some are toxic, some are not, but since the giants moved in and ruptured some of the natural formations, some of them have grown toxic or acidic, yes."
Marisha: Do you know if people still try to live there? We're looking for someone.
Matt: "If they are, they're foolish."
Marisha: Okay.
Taliesin: That's our kind of people.
Laura: Maybe the person we're looking for is a giant.
Marisha: Maybe.
Sam: Do you know what type of giant? We've seen a few types of giants. Do you know their make and model?
Matt: "The dumbest. Hill giants."
Laura: Hill giants.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: "Easy to outsmart, difficult to outrun. They'll eat anything, even small little gnomes."
Laura: Seems like they ate a lot of them.
Sam: (laughing) I guess so.
Laura: Pasty, I have a question. Do you know anything about Ioun?
Matt: "I know of the name."
Laura: But not much.
Matt: "We're not the most devoted people."
Laura: I know.
Marisha: I saw that. (laughter)
Matt: "I can't imagine I'd have any information you wouldn't."
Laura: Okay. Just checking.
Matt: "My apologies."
Laura: This food is really good.
Matt: "Yes! Enjoy your meal!" And he gets up and walks away.
Taliesin: He was so officious.
Laura: I thought we were walking into a fucking lake with gnomes living there. I didn't realize we were going to fight giants.
Travis: This got so much better all of a sudden.
Taliesin: If it were easy, it really wouldn't be us, would it?
Marisha: So the question is, is there actually someone of some minor intelligence living there that is this magical key, or did that person get eaten by a giant?
Taliesin: I cannot believe I'm about to say this. I'm inclined to believe the god. They're in the position where trying to trick us out of leaving is not necessary. They could've just told us to leave and be done with it. That information just wouldn't suit them, I don't think.
Marisha: I'm not saying it's bad information, I'm just wondering who the key is.
Laura: It's possible the key is now inside of a giant's stomach. In which case, it still would be inside of someone. Just a different someone.
Marisha: Yeah. Maybe they're still living inside. Maybe it's like a Moby Dick situation.
Matt: You do recall the map that was shown to you by the Dawnfather Pelor. It was adjacent to the pools, not actually in the Pools of Wittebak. It was within a forest, and was a home.
Laura: Oh! I remember it now! It was a home inside. Oh, I drew a little map of it. Yep, that's it. Yes, it's adjacent to the pools, but there's a home in a forest. Did you like it? That's what my map was.
Marisha: Can we theoretically just mist over everywhere?
Laura: I mean and look out for a home in the forest? We'll have to fly pretty low. I'm assuming the home is going to be covered by treetop.
Travis: We never travel traditionally anymore. I'm just saying, I miss the romantic aspects of traveling the countryside. It's like fast forward, immediate gratification, fucking you know.
Sam: The Dawnfather said we must hurry or else the world will end.
Laura: It's very far. We could Misty Step to the forest and then walk in the forest?
Travis: Why are you fucking talking to me like I'm a child?
Laura: No reason, darling.
Travis: Okay. That would-- okay. (laughter)
Liam: Once this is all done, Grog, you and I will go on a long trek together.
Travis: Yeah? Yeah. I dig that.
Laura: Don't be dark and creepy and make it sound like you're being nice. I know you're being dark and creepy right now.
Travis: Oh, hey. Don't get after my camping partner like that, all right? Shit. Chill.
Liam: Can't predict this one.
Travis: No marshmallows for this witch.
Marisha: It is a little weird to be making promises, though.
Taliesin: Well, on that chipper little side note, I think we should turn in for the evening.
Sam: Yes, do we have lodging?
Matt: Lodging is provided for you. They have a number of various guest tents and small buildings that provide you with space. Not the highest of quality of places you've slept in, probably, and if you wanted to provide your mansion instead, you're welcome to, but ample food, quiet sleep. It's a comfortable evening's rest. You all find yourselves through the evening. As you sleep, and having this being the first time many of you have slept in Terrah, it takes you a while. There is just a general low hum or vibration to the ground that you sleep on. You get the sense it's probably proximity to the Rift, but there is this slow, perpetual (rumbling). It's like a weird, low rumble. Like a heavy bass sound that never seems to dissipate that you hadn't noticed until you were trying to quietly sleep. But it's not off-putting and within ten or 15 minutes, it actually almost helps to lull you to rest. You all come to in the morning, gather your supplies, and are preparing for the next leg of your journey. What do you wish to do?
Travis: Could I attune, either before I go to sleep or when I wake up, to the Dwarven Thrower instead of the Bloodaxe?
Matt: You may. All right. Any other attunements, anyone wishes to--
Liam: I'll set the Deathwalker's Ward to acid.
Matt: All right, to acid. Boom.
Laura: Before everyone else gets up, can I go find where Vax is sleeping?
Matt: You may.
Laura: This is a tent. What do I do? Do I knock? Do I shake it? I'm not sure. Scratch?
Matt: They're lodging made from large pieces of shale and rock, jammed into a somewhat triangular pattern to form an earth yurt, if you will.
Laura: Oi. Vax. Are you naked?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: Put some clothes on, then. Jesus. Keyleth, sorry.
Marisha: Keyleth opens the shamble door first with a little earth movement. I'm dressed. Yeah. I'm not like that.
Laura: You don't sleep naked?
Marisha: I'm going to go get coffee.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: (laughs) Keyleth darts off in the distance and the two of you are left within the tent.
Laura: Are you decent?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: I'm coming in.
Liam: I'm still naked.
Laura: Ugh, come on! So fucking weird. (groans) I turn my back to him.
Liam: I start putting on the rest of my armor.
Matt: Okay. (laughs)
Laura: Can I ask you a question? Well, I'm going to.
Liam: Of course you can.
Laura: I look down at my feet. Why didn't you ever try to take these back?
Liam: Well, they're going to be yours, anyway.
Laura: Oh, Jesus. You know, the only reason I do things is that I take great joy in irritating you. If you don't show irritation, it makes it not worth it. (sighs) Can I turn around now? I'm turning around.
Liam: I am covered.
Laura: Good. Why are you so calm? You're so calm and confident now. It's weird.
Liam: I mean, I'm on bonus time.
Laura: Is he still cold?
Matt: His skin is colder than a warm body, yes.
Liam: But I'm not Bobby Drake, right?
Laura: What's his heartbeat like?
Matt: (very slow heartbeat)
Laura: (groans) Jeez!
Taliesin: Wow, way to hang onto that one, Matt.
Liam: But look. (slashing noise) I mean, look.
Laura: Is there blood?
Matt: Yeah, he bleeds, and it's a pretty open wound. You watch as the wound slowly seals itself up.
Laura: (gasping) No fucking way!
Liam: Oh, I didn't know it did that. (laughter)
Laura: That's really cool.
Liam: Thank you!
Laura: Wow.
Liam: I don't know, this is the dumbest conversation. This is bonus time. I shouldn't be here. It was the long sleep or come back and help.
Laura: So she gave you the option and then you came back and now you're what? Super? Super half-elf?
Liam: Well, I'm just following through on a promise made.
Laura: And we defeat Vecna and you're done, you're gone. That's it? Instant? Is it like we kill him and you're gone that second or is it like we kill him and you're here for another week or until the Raven Queen realizes that you're still here?
Liam: There isn't really a handbook.
Laura: She didn't tell you?
Liam: When Vecna is destroyed, she will call me back to where I would be right now. I expect everyone-- Keyleth and I have barely spoken-- I expect everyone to be sad, but I wish you wouldn't be so sad, not exorbitantly so, because I--
Laura: Exorbitant? That's a good word.
Liam: I read. Not as much as some, but I read. This is the path that I have chosen for myself and I did it based out of desperation, at first. But everyone dies.
Laura: I know.
Liam: And I think our group has become a little spoiled. We're not your ordinary group of idiots. We have blessings.
Laura: We're blessed idiots.
Liam: Blessed idiots, yes, and I know that we've gotten used to feeling like we can overcome losing anyone, but your average farmer or seamstress doesn't come back. And everybody dies, and all that matters is what you do with what you have, and I have done a lot, and I've taken great pride watching all that you have done. And I have good friends and I have fallen in love. More than most, I've had.
Laura: Yeah. After you die, do you stand by her side?
Liam: That I don't really know. I imagine she'll keep me close.
Laura: Do you like her now?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: That's good.
Liam: She's necessary and she's of use, and I like that.
Laura: She brought you back to us for a while. I like her, too. Anyway, do you want the fucking boots back? Fuck! Yeah, sure, yes, fine, that's fine. I wanted to give them back, so there you go. I'm glad you asked for them back.
Liam: I don't have a lot of time. They really are my favorite thing.
Laura: I know.
Liam: Physical thing.
Laura: Just make sure you write it down somewhere that after you go back to the Raven Queen that your sister is your favorite in the universe.
Liam: Dear, every stitch on my body is yours when I am gone.
Laura: I don't want every stitch. None of it's worth you leaving.
Liam: I slide my feet into the shoes and I wiggle my toes around. Oh, I'm sorry. I also have a confession to make.
Laura: What?
Liam: I don't exactly have your shoes anymore.
Laura: What?!
Liam: I think that I left them in the Feywild.
Laura: The Feywild?
Liam: Yeah, I think I dropped them into a bog. They didn't fit me.
Laura: You are a motherfucker. You couldn't have just put them in the Bag of Holding?
Liam: I'm still me.
Laura: Great, wonderful. I like being barefoot.
Liam: You have very cute, small feet that fit in the boots that you gave me that did not fit my feet.
Laura: That's great.
Liam: There's probably shoes here.
Laura: Probably. All right.
Liam: I pull out her shoes and I put them down.
Laura: Well, at least there's that!
Matt: Got your shoes back. Keyleth returns with some coffee. The rest of you come to consciousness, and the morning sun is now blaring down over the Cliffkeep. It's a strangely clear sky for the north. While a lot of it is relatively cold usually, you're used to seeing the snow- capped mountaintops-- oh, you found it! There you go.
Taliesin: It was with you the whole time.
Liam: Must have been inside your shoes.
Laura: Oh my gosh! I put it in the safe place and I didn't realize it!
Travis: Thank you, chat.
Laura: Did they really know where I put it?
Travis: Yeah, they know where your shit is.
Sam: The chat knew where you put your stuff?
Travis: "It's in the page in front of your blue divider."
Sam: No way!
Laura: Wow, thank you. Thank you, guys!
Liam: How many fingers am I holding up?
Matt: So bringing it back in, guys.
Sam: Yes, we have a guest.
Matt: Yes. At some point. So what do you guys want to do?
Sam: Set off! For the Pools of Hatabah! (laughter)
Taliesin: For the forest near the Pools of--
Sam: The adjacent to the Pools of Hatafah.
Travis: We didn't want to bring any extra muscle with us, do we, from these peeps? Oh wait, we're misting a long ways away. Never mind. Sorry. Forget it.
Liam: Grog, you are our extra muscle.
Travis: See! High five! Up top.
Liam: I'm not dead.
Travis: His hand's cold.
Matt: So you're traversing via your Wind Walk?
Marisha: I guess. Are we wind walking there?
Laura: (mispronouncing) Wind.
Marisha: (mispronouncing) Wind walk? Wind walking.
Liam: (mispronouncing) Wil Wheaton!
Sam: Hey, before we leave, real quick  Kiki.
Marisha: Yes.
Sam: Can you send messages or anything?
Marisha: No, man. We have been through this with our entire group so many times.
Sam: It's just you're so powerful.
Marisha: Thank you.
Sam: Let's go.
Marisha: What do you need?
Sam: I would send a letter, but it'll take weeks. So forget it. We'll be somewhere close to somewhere with magic soon.
Marisha: We can leave it in the hands of the Ashari, see if they can find somebody.
Sam: You trust these folks?
Marisha: Yeah. They're all right.
Taliesin: They're not the worst.
Marisha: They're not the worst.
Sam: All right, I'll scribble a little note and say-- well, no, there's no way they can get it to-- it's too far! It's too far!
Taliesin: I was really excited to see your face when you handed it to them and they're like, what are we supposed to do with this?
Sam: Here, I'll show you, Grog.
Travis: Write it out, bitch!
Sam: I write, a sphincter says what.
Travis: A. As. Good message. That's a big word at the front.
Laura: You could have gotten the last one, though.
Travis: What!
Sam: Yes!
Matt: Pike taps you on the shoulder and is like, "I'll teach you that later."
Taliesin: Thank you for the Ashley Johnson simulator. That was weirdly comforting.
Matt: Curse you, Blindspot!
Travis: Yeah! Are we misting?
Sam: Yeah, let's do it.
Laura: Should we eat a feast first, or should we save that?
Taliesin: Let's save that.
Laura: Okay. I don't know what we're going to find!
Matt: That's up to you guys. So preparations being done, you gather your materials, Keyleth completes the Wind Walk spell and you all feel yourselves grow slightly lighter on your toes. You concentrate. Over the minute transformation, you turn into your mist forms and take off in what direction?
Marisha: Towards the Falafel Pools!
Sam: We wrote it down.
Taliesin: Falafel pool is actually really tasty.
Travis: Pools of Wittebak.
Laura: Yeah! Towards the mountains!
Sam: He said "which direction?" He did not say "Where are you going?" He said "which direction?"
Laura: We got to look at our map.
Marisha: We have it on the map!
Laura: We have a map!
Matt: Okay! Well, you have Terrah locked down. The Pools of Wittebak would not be on your specific map that you acquired earlier. You can ask around within Terrah within a brief time and figure it out. Somewhere between 100 and 120 miles, and he points in a specific direction. You mark the sun's traveling and where certain landmarks are.
Marisha: I quickly do the math of how fast I can travel and be like okay, it shouldn't take long.
Matt: It's an eastward direction from where you are.
Taliesin: You did actually, legitimately point east, too, which makes that even better.
Matt: That's weird.
Taliesin: Yeah, that is weird.
Matt: I'm putting points in my nature skill. Or survival, I guess. Anyway, too many editions in my head. (laughs) As you all take off into the morning sky, you begin to rocket over, and you're hitting jets of wind that are beginning to find their way over the mountain ranges, and you get blown a little off-course, but you maintain concentration as best you can in that direction. Who is leading this venture?
Sam: I've been there. No, I knew of it, right?
Matt: You knew of it, yeah.
Sam: But I don't know exactly where.
Laura: After listening to everybody, I'll lead the way. That way, I can keep an eye out for the forest next, too, and the house and all the things we're looking for. I got a good look at the map that Pelor held up in front of us, as well.
Matt: Right. Okay, cool. I need you to go ahead and make a survival check. Actually, for this, I'm gonna say-- yeah, because it would be tracking in the wilderness. So survival.
Laura: Survival? Great. Any advantage on that?
Sam: Wilderness is your favored terrain.
Matt: It's mountains, technically.
Laura: That's also my favored.
Matt: Then yeah, roll again.
Travis: Because that was a one.
Laura: Oh! So much better. 28.
Matt: Okay, that'll do it. Your speed is tremendous when in this form, so what would have been an extended trek on foot over a series of days, it takes you mere hours to eventually get to a point where you crest one heavy peak. On the opposite side, you can see down the cliffside, the edge reaches a slight precipice, and there you can see what looks to be for a mile or so a cluster of dozens and dozens of pools of water of different sizes, all jammed together in a geothermic cluster, where you can see bright greens that move to a deep orange-maroon at the edges from the various mineral deposits that have collected over hundreds and hundreds of years. You can see large columns of smoke and steam of different chemical colors rising out of various large pools, and at a glance down, you can see a number of shapes: a number of hulking, humanoid shapes; somewhere in the neighborhood of 40 to 50 or so scattered at different pools, moving in small clusters or gangs. Some of them are jumping in, cannonballing and swimming through the actual pools. Some of them are lounging around and lying. Some of them appear to be returning, dragging things from the nearby forest on the eastern side of the bank.
Marisha: This is a vacation spot. What's that water park nearby?
Laura: Wet 'N' Wild?
Matt: Essentially, for a few hundred years, you get the sense that the Pools of Wittebak have been a hill giant water park. You can see these large mounds of mud and scrap wood and things that have been built into these large hill giant domiciles onto the side of the mountain not far from the pools. It's become a definite hill giant wandering zone. So do you guys continue over the pools, down towards the nearby forest ridge?
Laura: Yeah, past the pools.
Matt: All righty. You come to the forest ridge, and you can see it's not thick forest. The ravine comes down off the precipice where the pools are. You get a few hundred-- I'd say, actually more than that. A thousand or more feet away from that precipice before plants even begin to grow. It looks like whatever toxic chemicals have burbled up in some of these pools have made a lot of the ground there unable to give any forest life or sustain any large trees. As soon as the forest begins, it's a dense little pocket, maybe a mile and a half, two miles across. That's what you've got. What do you guys want to do?
Laura: Oh man. I should try to track any footprints in there and see if there's something around the edges, maybe, that lead back to-- shit, I don't fucking know. It's only a couple of miles.
Matt: If you guys begin to do a loop-over, who's doing a quick pass over the patch of forest? All right, make a perception check.
Laura: It's the forest. Do I get advantage on that one? Perception? What is that, 21? 21.
Taliesin: 12.
Matt: Okay. Glancing over, you don't see any major glades or clearings. There doesn't appear to be any sign of bastions of civilization or any sort of logging going on. There's no areas where trees have been cut or cleared. It's a featureless forest top, from what you can see.
Laura: Can we fly down lower to where we're in between the trees?
Matt: You can go down into the forest, if you'd like. All right, who's going into the forest, then?
Marisha: I'll go.
Laura: I'll go. All of us?
Matt: So with Pike following suit, you guys all swoop down through the boughs of the trees and into the center of the forest itself. Within there, it's not a super thick canopy; it's not as heavy as the Feywild or some of the recent forests that cluster around Vasselheim. There are breaks in the canopy where you can see the sunbeams come through from the morning sun that's rising up higher and higher in the sky as you've traveled. The mist has burned away in this area, so it's a nice, warm forest. Glancing about, there is a lot of life in here. You can see signs of squirrels. You rush by what was a family of wolverine-like creatures that are rustling by. As soon as the wind scoots in and your mist forms come rocketing past, they all scatter and run off into the shadows. There's a lot of forest ground here to cover. For you to really super track with advantage, you'd have to go into human form. I'd give you a regular roll if you want to try and track in your mist form.
Laura: Not so much tracking right now, just a loose passover as we're going, looking for any kind of hunting traps or trails, signs of life of things that have been traversed a lot.
Matt: I'd say make an investigation check.
Laura: 27.
Matt: 27. Begin coasting through tree after tree through small, tiny bits of clearing that immediately come into large clusters of trunks and knotted branches that all merge and cluster at different intersections. After about 20 or so minutes of this, trying to do a large spiral around the forest inward, out of the corner of your eye, Vex'ahlia, you glance over and see a quick glimpse of something that appears to be more structured. You look back and rush over and there you see amongst the trees what appears to be a humble-looking two-story home. You see a small balcony built on the second floor that goes over one of the larger rooms in the bottom floor. It's not huge, by any means, and is hidden by a lot of the local brush and trees there. Can't get a lot more detail at this distance, though.
Laura: Okay. We land. I land.
Marisha: I follow.
Laura: And behind a tree, I'm going to take form.
Matt: You take your form? Okay. So all of you land and follow Vex?
Sam: Yeah!
Matt: You all take a minute to go back to your physical forms. You glance over, and there it is, standing before you. It's very shaded in this part of the forest. You can see a little bit of what looks to be interior light, very faint.
Travis: Like a normal person-sized dwelling?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: Natural 20!
Laura: Yay!
Matt: It would be a little small for you, Grog. But you could walk in it. Proportionally, it looks maybe like it was built for a little bit of a smaller person.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: I want to start eyeballing the ground of the house for any kinds of traps set out. Is that investigation, yeah?
Matt: That is investigation.
Liam: 18.
Matt: 18. Okay. So you guys begin to slowly--
Travis: Wait. Before we do, there are no random nudist giants that have run over in this area, right? There's nobody sees us over here taking off?
Taliesin: You're worried about giants streaking?
Travis: Not particularly.
Taliesin: That was very specific.
Travis: Well, yeah, have you ever seen a giant naked? You'll never forget it.
Taliesin: I might. I don't know.
Sam: Are you suggesting we set up a perimeter?
Travis: Yeah! I mean, it's a tiny house, I don't really want to go in there. I like having exits I fit through.
Laura: I don't want whoever it is to think that we threaten them in any way. But then, if they threaten us, I wouldn't want them to attack us, either.
Travis: Yeah, I'll just knock the house down from the outside.
Taliesin: Let's keep this structure standing for now.
Travis: I'll stay outside.
Sam: Are we knocking properly or are we just going to Invisibility in and see who's in there?
Laura: I feel like maybe knock properly.
Taliesin: If you think long and hard about it, it's not like manners have failed us very often.
Laura: Yeah. But do keep an eye out for traps or anything weird on the way up.
Marisha: I think we've failed at manners often.
Taliesin: We fail at manners more often. We'll see how this goes. We'll try being nice.
Travis: I'll stay out here.
Sam: I'll go knock on the door. It seems like a smallish door, right?
Laura: Yeah, I'll go with you.
Matt: Okay, so what's the marching order?
Sam: I'll go first.
Liam: Nothing perked up my spidey-sense?
Matt: From this current glance, no. You guys are behind a tree at a distance.
Travis: No nude giants, right?
Matt: Currently, no, but you're keeping an eye out.
Laura: I'm walking with a smile, looking very friendly.
Matt: Who's leading the charge?
Sam: I'll go knock.
Laura: I'll walk behind Scanlan.
Matt: We have Scanlan and Vex'ahlia.
Liam: I'm going to go, as well, and continue to eyeball for traps.
Taliesin: I'll be hanging back a bit, as well.
Marisha: I'll be comfortably back, as well.
Sam: Before we knock, what were we told was in this thing?
Travis: The key.
Sam: The key. Inside a person, inside a house.
Laura: It's possible the person is the key; we're not sure.
Matt: Is Trinket within your necklace for this?
Laura: No, he's out.
Matt: Okay, Trinket is out alongside you. Grog?
Laura: He's a very friendly bear, look at him!
Travis: I'm outside the house.
Laura: Trinket, smile! Be friendly!
Matt: As you get across this small walkway towards the front, as you're walking with a big smile, Vex'ahlia, something catches your eye on the ground right before her and you watch as she steps forward. You reach out and grab her wrist and hold her back before she steps down.
Laura: What is it?
Matt: There is a large, rusted, iron bear trap that is open that you almost stepped right into.
Travis: That would be have been donesies.
Laura: I was being friendly, and it almost crushed me. Trinket, be careful, this thing was made for you.
Matt: Trinket walks up to it.
Laura: No, no, be careful! Spit on it!
Matt: (growling)
Laura: Can he spit? Can Trinket spit?
Matt: (bear spitting) It's not very-- it's more of a power drool, if you will.
Liam: Is it easy enough to walk around?
Matt: You can walk around that one, and you begin to see what looks to be seven other ones that are clustered around.
Taliesin: This is probably a giant-infested forest.
Marisha: Yes, that's exactly why. Bear traps are the biggest thing you can get for a giant.
Sam: Can we evade them and get into--
Matt: You begin to walk around. Yeah, you would, actually. As you step around one, you can see, at the front door, there is a welcome mat that says "welcome." As you're approaching it, you can see the welcome mat, there's just something a little off about it. Like, it's raised higher than the ground should be.
Travis: Willkommen.
Marisha: Trapped?
Liam: Well, I could attempt to dicker with it, but we could just knock the door over it if we really are going on manners.
Taliesin: Double-check to make sure the door isn't a problem, either. I'd imagine if the welcome mat is.
Liam: The door's going to blow up if we knock on it? I mean, we don't have much luck with doors.
Laura: Can I grab a stick and lift the edge of the mat up?
Liam: Do you want to do that?
Matt: Are you stopping her from doing that?
Liam: Yes, I am! Let me take a look at it, please! I've already detected it. I will attempt to disarm it with thieves' tools, correct?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: That's fine. That is a 29.
Matt: You walk over. You look and you watch. There's a small cord that is hidden amongst the brush that runs from underneath the mat through a small ring that goes up from the house, then up a branch or vine, so it's hidden amongst them. You look straight up about 40 feet, you see a nice, solid, thick trunk that is just (creaking).
Travis: That's some Predator shit!
Matt: Right above the door.
Taliesin: I feel like there's a complicated story that goes along with all of this. I'm really excited by it.
Marisha: Is this going to be an Uncharted kind of adventure?
Taliesin: We have found the cabin of Macaulay Culkin!
Matt: So knowing this, you walk over and grab the cord. Looking to see where the leverage is, you motion to Grog to come over and hold it. You find another piece of heavy stone that is by the wall to the side. With Grog's help, you snip it, bring it over, and tie it onto the edge of this piece of the stonework, like a small pole that was placed at the base of the house. It holds the weight of this suspended trunk and it no longer triggers based on the step.
Liam: Percy, I'm sorry, I know you like a good Rube Goldberg.
Taliesin: I was really excited by this thing. It's a shame to dismantle it.
Laura: It's still there. Maybe when we leave, we can crash it down.
Liam: Does the door look hinky at all?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Marisha: You did say kinky, right?
Liam: I said hinky. 18.
Matt: 18. It does not appear to be trapped, per se. It does appear to be locked.
Liam: Yeah, well, I don't want to pick it.
Laura: I want to use a stick, and oh! Here, Scanlan, you were going to knock.
Sam: (chuckles) What is this stick?
Laura: So that you don't have to touch the door in case it's magic.
Matt: Which as a note, the door, at full height, is about at the shoulders of most of you. You recognize this. This is definitely a homestead built on the scale for probably halfling or gnome. It's still pretty big for a gnomish home, meaning it's a little more spacious headroom, you'd probably be able to stand in comfortably, except for you, Grog, you're probably a little hunched.
Liam: So it's like an ostentatious gnome door. Little more than is needed.
Sam: Like me. I'll just rap on the door with my knuckles.
Matt: Okay. There is an awkward pause.
Sam: Hello? Bidet?
Matt: Darin, if you want to go ahead onto the stage, please. (cheering)
Laura: I'm glad he didn't murder us with his bear traps.
Sam: You need this? Oh, you need this. Oh! I've been goosed.
Liam: Hey, chaotic evil necromancer gnome.
Matt: You weren't supposed to tell them.
Darin: I didn't.
Matt: So you hear amongst your business for the day, out of nowhere (knocking) on the door.
Sam: Kaitiaki!
Darin: I open it.
Matt: Okay, you hear (clicking) what sounds like six or seven different locks unlock on the door, as it slowly swings open, and before them what do they see?
Darin: A very small, elderly gnome, bald on top, with a long white beard, and a bit of a distant look in his eyes, and he looks at you and says, are you real?
Laura: I think so.
Darin: You're real? Prove it! Say that you're real to my invisible frog companion.
Sam: I will step forward and say, hello, there. (whispers) I'm real.
Darin: Yes, you're real. There is no invisible frog companion. The voices in my head would not have spoken to that. (stuttering) They know a little bit better than that, but that doesn't matter, I haven't had people here in over 35 years. (laughs) But you're here! And you're real! Go away. (laughter)
Darin: Demistrik, show them out.
Matt: You watch as two tiny red claws come around the corner as these tiny, impish wings unfurl. You watch as a tiny imp releases from the edge of the doorframe. (wings beating) "Get out!" (door slamming) and slams the door.
Darin: And show yourself out, Demistrik. I don't need you here, 19 years of you is more than enough.
Matt: You hear muffling argument through the door as the voice goes, "I'll stay where I damn please. You gave me permission to stay. If anyone is going to leave, you're going to leave!"
Darin: I think you should go to Kraghammer and become a circus performer with a little tin cup and a little hat and say, "Oh dear, I am Demistrik, the magical imp." That's where you belong, I tell you right now.
Matt: "Sounds like a lot more fun than having to deal with you on a daily basis, you son of a--"
Darin: (offended cry) Language, imp!
Matt: The door creaks open once more. "Sorry." (door closing)
Darin: The door creaks open again. I'm sorry, as well. (whispering) For him, he's awful.
Liam: I stick my foot in!
Darin: No! (laughter)
Liam: I'm really very sorry to bother you, although I'm delighted to make your acquaintance. I'm having a very hard time not just smiling like an idiot. Could we trouble you just for a few moments? We mean no harm at all. We do need to talk to you. We've come a very long way... as farts. That's got to count for something.
Laura: (sing-songy) We could give you some interesting conversation. 35 years is a very long time.
Liam: We've done a lot, we've seen a lot, we could tell you all about it.
Sam: I play an old, traditional gnome song to soften him a bit.
Matt: Make a performance check.
Laura: What is an old gnome song?
Sam: I don't know. (laughter)
Sam: 24.
Matt: It's been a long time since you've heard music, let alone one that scratches an old memory of childhood. It's nice.
Taliesin: It's more or less whatever strikes your fancy, to be fair.
All: (humming Going to the Chapel)
Matt: You see the imp in the back going, "Ugh! Stop that racket!"
Darin: You don't even appreciate music. What would an imp song sound like? You can't say one, can you? Because you don't have music where you're from.
Matt: "I can, but it'll cause your ears to bleed! It sounds like this." (screeching)
Darin: I find that very entertaining.
Matt: "You're such a liar!" The imp (poof) vanishes before you.
Darin: He's gone. Don't worry about him. He gets a little bit... testy, if you will.
Sam: May we speak? May we have a moment of your time?
Darin: Oh, well... Very well. You can come in if you like. Oh! Be careful, there's illusions and thingamabobbers.
Liam: (stammers) Sorry, that's infectious. We have a really big guy. Are you all right with him coming in? Grog, are you all right with coming in?
Travis: How the fuck do I get in that damn door?
Liam: Have you not crawled on all fours before?
Taliesin: You should try it if you haven't; it's quite delightful.
Travis: Are you lying?
Taliesin: No. For once, no, I'm not.
Travis: Can I do an insight check on Percy?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: 19.
Taliesin: I have never actually been quite so honest in my entire life. I think you'll find it very therapeutic.
Travis: I roll in on all fours.
Taliesin: How does it feel?
Travis: I'm waiting for it to kick in.
Taliesin: Crawl forward, back a bit, stretch, downward dog, stretch.
Matt: You watch as this large, gray-skinned mountain of a man crawls his way in. You could duck-walk through if you really wanted to. This is worse than Gandalf in Bag End. All fours is probably the most comfortable means of transport through the house. But you walk in and immediately, you watch as your new gnomish friend is going around and quickly disabling small things, putting small keys and tying off strings and wires you saw that were set up around portions of the room.
Taliesin: I am going to try and map this in my head, the crazy stuff I'm seeing right now.
Matt: This place is a hoarder's den. You see shelves and shelves of books and papers and scrolls and stacks of them. You see on bits of furniture and chairs more stacks of books and sacks and satchels and quills and inkwells. Some spilled and left and dried long ago. This place is very lived-in, very chaotic, and very unique.
Liam: The first thing that I do as we come in is I scan the room, or rooms, for more Macaulay Culkin shenanigans.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: Maculkins. I think we can just call them Maculkins now.
Liam: That is a 21.
Matt: Okay. You do see there's one portion of the floor that he keeps avoiding, instinctually, that catches your attention. You're like, "why does he keep walking around that?"
Marisha: What's your name, friend?
Darin: Oh, well, that was taken from me a very long time ago. I only have what they call me. You know, names are an odd thing, aren't they? Sometimes a name can stick to you like blood on a knife or your fingers on a wallet that might not be your property, and then who you were is not who you are and yet... here we are.
Marisha: That oddly made way too much sense.
Sam: What do they call you?
Darin: They call me Sprigg. There's more. They call me Sprigg the Obnoxious.
Sam: Sprigg the Obnoxious?
Darin: Yes. It's not my given name; it was a name that was given to me when it was given to me.
Liam: Did you used to be obnoxious? Because I'm not picking that up.
Darin: Oh. We're rarely who we used to be.
Taliesin: Is there mercury in those pools? (laughter)
Darin: Who? Is that a friend of yours?
Taliesin: I sometimes will talk to the fourth wall. It's a thing; ignore it.
Darin: It's a domicile. There has to be four walls. If there weren't, it would be a yurt. I don't live in a yurt, dear boy.
Marisha: I sometimes live in a yurt. They're quite nice.
Darin: I have nothing against yurts. (laughs) Like a stick that you would put in a yurt so it wouldn't fall over. I would want it to fall over, therefore, I have nothing against yurts. (wheezing laughter) Demistrik!
Matt: The imp just appears across the room and just goes, "Good one. That was-- I am so sorry."
Laura: Pike? Do you think maybe a Greater Restoration is in order?
Matt: Pike goes, "Why?"
Laura: No reason.
Matt: "Could I just touch your hand for a second? Is that okay?"
Darin: (stuttering) Why?
Matt: "Just to see if we can help your day."
Darin: Do you not think that I'm real?
Matt: "Probably not."
Darin: I assure you, I'm real. I'm here. My companions are long gone. They were like you, like you, like you, and you, and you, and I'm all that is left. You are looking into a mirror of your future.
Sam: I'm going to look like you, or you're going to look like me?
Marisha: No, I know what he means. Who were your companions?
Darin: Memories. They're all memories now. I don't even remember their names. I remember some of them, but we were heroes and now I am here.
Marisha: Oh no.
Liam: Were there no other gnome folk in your party?
Darin: No, there was one like you, there was a big one, a mighty one. There was one like you, brave and kind.
Laura: That's like me! That's exactly like me.
Darin: There was one like you. Smart, yet sad. And you, as well. Yeah, and I was you.
Matt: Pike goes, "Please?" She grabs your hand and concentrates for a second, you watch as the holy symbol flares for a moment and the warmth passes through her arms into your hand. And it feels nice. It's like holding a freshly heated cup of tea. And as the spell completes and she pulls back. "That's all. Thank you."
Darin: Thank you, very kind of you. Don't ever do that again.
Matt: "Right, okay. Okay."
Sam: Your companions. Not to bring up sad times. How long ago did they go away? Perish?
Darin: 37 years.
Sam: And how, was it in a fight?
Darin: Oh, yes.
Sam: Against a powerful entity?
Darin: Oh no. Against ignorance, against bravery that should never have been. And that's why I'm here and they're not, because I ran, you see. I'm your future. You'll all be gone. You and you and you and you and you, and you'll be left.
Liam: While listening to all that, Vax slid his hand into Keyleth's and quietly listened to the whole thing.
Darin: Oh, well. Perhaps we should talk of other things. Should we?
Sam: Yes. Yes, we want this to be a positive visit for you, so is there anything we can tell you from the world outside that you might be curious about?
Darin: The world outside? Who needs the world outside? I have everything here, and what I need, dear boy, I have taken from Kraghammer. All these books over there, you see, those are mine. They should have been mine to begin with, and I took them, and now they are mine. (wheezing laughter)
Taliesin: I'm going to peruse some of these titles, quietly.
Sam: The books, you mean?
Darin: Yes. You'd like to look at the books, would you?
Taliesin: I find it's the easiest way to learn quite a bit about a person.
Darin: Oh, you're very welcome to look at anything you like. What will you give me, dear boy? I require something. And yet, what do I need, living here? Not much. Intelligence, no. Secrets, no. Love, no. Sadness, bravery, power. What do you have that you would give me?
Travis: I reach in the Bag of Holding. I take out Percy's glasses. Would you care for a pair of these testicl-- spectacles?
Darin: I seek power, dear boy, not silliness. If I wanted silliness, I would talk to a Sun Tree. No one ever should talk to a Sun Tree, they should only listen to a Sun Tree. And so I shall say again, if you would like to peruse my book and perhaps find what you are looking for, what will you give me that would bring power and redemption into my life?
Sam: What do you have, Grog?
Laura: (whispering) Give him some ale.
Travis: But that's not fucking power.
Laura: You don't know. Bet it's been a while since he's had some of that.
Darin: It seems you have powerful items.
Travis: I do. I have these Bracers of Defense.
Darin: Ah, but that is strength. I require power.
Travis: (softly) Shit. Fuck.
Taliesin: Well, I reach into my bag and start cleaning a small green shard of residuum, polishing it.
Darin: Demistrik! If you excuse me for a just-- while you look, I'll just talk to my imp. You'll pardon us. (whispering) A word, Demistrik?
Matt: "Ugh. Just one moment. What?"
Darin: The big one worries me. I think we should have a code in case we have to jump him.
Matt: "What code would you wish?"
Darin: Goliath grab! But we need to remember that. We need to remember that.
Matt: "Goliath grab. Good luck!"
Darin: We need some sort of mnemonic device to remember goliath grab. G, goodness gracious, grab that goliath. O?
Matt: "O? Huh. I'll tell you what, I've got your back."
Darin: I don't feel that at all. You're right in front of me. How could you have my back? (wheezing chuckle) I got you. (laughing) Go away. So what do you have for me? You've had ample time to look in your Bag of Holding to produce something very--
Travis: Powerful. Well, I do have one thing that seems to be pretty powerful.
Marisha: Oh no, Grog.
Travis: I pull out of the Bag of Holding a small leather case. I open the flap. I don't know if you have any interest in this, but my experience with these items has been very extreme. Would you care to take a card?
Darin: Would you care to give them to me?
Sam: All or just one?
Travis: No, you can pick a card.
Matt: Make an arcana check. Roll a d20 and add your arcana skill modifier to it.
Taliesin: You are a madman.
Darin: 15.
Matt: 15. You don't recognize what he's holding in his hands, but you immediately see the leather casing around it, and your essence being able to read certain elements of magic-- It does appear to be a powerful enchantment, whatever he has procured from the bag.
Darin: Indeed. Perhaps one card for one book?
Travis: Yeah, sure. I mean, Percy, do you have a book out of all of these that you want to read?
Darin: What are you looking for? What do you seek? What knowledge? I've got it all here.
Sam: We seek a key.
Laura: To find a very ancient goddess--
Darin: Oh, don't say Ioun.
Taliesin: We're not going to say Ioun.
Darin: You just did!
Liam: Is there another name that you would like us to use? Like a nickname instead of Ioun?
Darin: The Broken Goddess. I know more than Ioun, please! Ioun. Gods, what do they know? We know more than they, for we exist! We live! We adventure! They merely observe. Am I right?
Sam: You have a point. They don't do much for us in the day-to-day.
Taliesin: Are you saying you know more than Ioun?
Darin: Of course I know more than Ioun.
Taliesin: Can you prove that you know more than Ioun?
Darin: Yes.
Taliesin: So if I ask you a question that is almost impossible to answer, you could answer it before Ioun could answer it?
Darin: Could Ioun create a rock so heavy that even she couldn't lift it?
Taliesin: Oh, please. I'm far too clever to ask such a simple question. That's easy. I would have to ask something that was very difficult to answer.
Darin: I will give you your answer if you give me a card.
Liam: You know, I was just saying what a good idea I thought it was, but I thought you were talking about the entire deck, Grog. I think the entire deck is a fairer thing than to have him pull a card, because that seems unpredictable to me.
Travis: Yeah, that sounds perfect to me.
Liam: We're all in a small, enclosed space together, Grog, and I like this fellow.
Laura: Sprigg, it is quite powerful, yes, but also maybe slightly dangerous.
Taliesin: A bit dangerous, to be fair.
Darin: I'm here alone. Well, there's... oh, yes. Go peddle your papers somewhere where they'd like papers peddled!
Laura: You're not alone at the moment.
Darin: That's true!
Laura: This is very true. And I'd rather not put my life in the hands of you, not knowing you very well.
Darin: Some did. I'm here.
Laura: Yes.
Darin: They are not.
Laura: So something bad could happen, and you'd run away, and we'd be stuck here?
Darin: No. 37 years. I ran away. I've been here deciding how to live again, how not to run away. That's what all this is about, isn't it? You can't just hide from the world. I've done it! Done it for a long, long time. Maybe you being here means that I should hide no longer. Or maybe I just have an invisible frog friend. Maybe I have nothing here, and nothing here.
Taliesin: Whoever has devised these contraptions and created this safety for you is a genius. I'm not saying you're necessarily--
Darin: It was both of us.
Taliesin: I somehow don't think so.
Darin: What?
Matt: "It was all me."
Taliesin: I've had my own demons to contend with in my life, to make me doubt my own intelligence. I get the sense that your compatriot-- I hate to call it friend, here--
Darin: I hate to call it friend, and yet I do. Isn't that right, friend?
Matt: "Unfortunately."
Taliesin: What are you doing here?
Darin: You can tell them.
Matt: "No!"
Darin: Just tell him.
Matt: "No! Why, because he asked me?"
Darin: Yes! Be polite. They're guests in our home.
Matt: "Oh, it's not our home."
Darin: 19 years you've been here, ever since your master died trying to enter and got tricked into one of my traps, and now you're here-- does that answer your question?-- now, why don't you tell him what I just said?
Matt: "My master died trying to get in here on one of the traps, and now I call this my home."
Darin: Beautifully said. Bravo. You should be a little performer in Kraghammer. You know what the reviews would be? Not very good! Shameful behavior. Abysmal behavior from the Abyss itself!
Taliesin: We don't have much. Many of the things that we carry are very dangerous. Obviously, you have a great deal of genius here. I'm going to show him the elemental shard. I don't know if this would interest you, but I consider it to be of great value.
Matt: So you're showing him the residuum piece?
Taliesin: The last piece of residuum I have.
Matt: All right. So this is a sliver of what looks like green glass. It's finely polished, about that thick, that long. You've read about this. You've read that condensed residuum is very susceptible to enchantment and/or the focusing of short-term magic spells. It's expensive, it's lauded, it's hard to find.
Darin: I will use that Ring of Telekinesis to lift it up and take a better look at it.
Matt: You watch as it darts out of your hand and wisps up, maybe two feet ahead of him, and slowly rotates above him as he inspects it.
Taliesin: Impressive, but not as impressive as the giant log.
Darin: Oh, yes. But is there power in this, dear boy? Or are there only secrets? For you are secrets. He is power.
Taliesin: I may be secrets, and that is of me, but I believe there is power in its secret. People died for that. Many people.
Darin: People die every day. Except me. That's my punishment, child. I live on. I live on with my shame and my intelligence and you.
Laura: Because of Ioun?
Marisha: What's your relationship to her?
Darin: What is anyone's relationship to a god?
Marisha: Good question.
Laura: Some of us are champions. Some of them don't like them. Some of them worship them but don't really get respect. What's yours?
Darin: All of that and more.
Laura: So you're a champion? Are you a champion of Ioun?
Marisha: You're a champion of Ioun. Of course he's a champion of Ioun.
Darin: I wouldn't say that.
Taliesin: But we might, wouldn't we?
Darin: Champion of Ioun?
Matt: (demonic cackling)
Darin: Are you going to start calling me Ioun's Champion?
Matt: "Only if it bothers you, Ioun's Champion!"
Darin: I like it. Drat, eh? Drat. You tell them what you know of Ioun.
Matt: "She's a heinous bitch who got what's coming to her 800 years ago."
Marisha: What?
Darin: It's a bit common, but that is his belief. What is yours? What is your thought about Ioun?
Sam: We know that she possesses knowledge that could help us in our quest to save the world, and therefore, no matter what her personality is, she is valuable to us.
Darin: And yet, is there value in saving the world? Or should you just let it all go away?
Laura: No, no, I think we should save it.
Sam: Yeah, we're pro-world here.
Darin: Are you? That is interesting.
Liam: Sprigg, you're seeking power.
Darin: I seek redemption. There is great power in redemption.
Liam: We offer you redemption. Collaborating with us grants you the power to fell a would-be god.
Darin: Excuse me. For one second. Can I speak to you for just a second?
Matt: (flapping wings) "What?"
Darin: He's tricky. I think we should get a mnemonic device on what we need to do if he becomes too tricky. We should say, elf boy grab! E! For egads! There's an elf, we should grab him. L! Let's grab that elf boy.
Matt: "Right, all right." You guys can hear all of this.
Darin: F. Forsooth, I shall grab this elf boy!
Liam: I'm not an elf. Not an elf.
Marisha: Why do people like calling you elf boy and elf girl?
Liam: We have vaguely pointed ears. Not even fully pointed ears. My mother was not an elf.
Darin: Just a second. He's not an elf!
Matt: "We'll stick with the device. I've got your back."
Darin: I still don't feel it.
Matt: "You will."
Darin: All right. Hello!
Sam: Hi. Hi, mirror man. Listen.
Darin: All right.
Sam: Let's cut to the chase here. We need information from you.
Darin: Indeed.
Sam: You need something from us. Grog, give him a card.
Marisha: Wait.
Sam: We're dancing around this! We need this man!
Laura: He took the stone! Are you taking the stone?
Sam: Are you going to take the stone as a source of power? He said it's too mysterious.
Liam: I thought we were talking about redemption.
Darin: If you'll allow me. You've been very quiet.
Marisha: Yes, I'm a little freaked out right now. You're my worst fear incarnate. Sorry, that seemed very rude. My worst nightmare incarnate.
Darin: That didn't make it any better, dear child!
Matt: (cackling)
Darin: (shushing) Go ahead. Why am I your worst fear in a carnation?
Marisha: I've seen you in my dreams.
Darin: Hear that?
Matt: "Go get her, tiger."
Laura: Trinket starts chasing the imp around the room.
Matt: "No!" Up into the corner, (hissing). Turns invisible.
Darin: Oh, I guess you found that unbearable!
Sam: That was a good pun.
Matt: You hear the tiniest little demonic fart by your ear.
Liam: I'm also gently steering Trinket away from the floorboard in the middle of the room as he walked by.
Marisha: Somehow everything you have said since the minute we've walked into this building has made 100% sense, and I think that's what scares me the most, is I understand everything you've said.
Darin: It should scare you the most. I was one of you. I did what you did. 37 years ago, I did it. And we fought, and we fought, and they were right here. They were right here!
Sam: Who is they?
Darin: My companions.
Sam: And who were you fighting against? You, we?
Travis: Vecna.
Darin: No.
Sam: Gods?
Darin: It was silly. It was hobgoblins. It should never have happened. It was a simple fight, and they died, and I ran, and I can't even remember their names.
Liam: Sprigg.
Darin: Yes?
Liam: Would you like to be needed again? Maybe it's time to stop running.
Darin: What would I do?
Marisha: We can grant you power in items, but I don't want to speak for all of us, but I think all of us can speak a little bit to the fact that items don't grant you as much inner power as you expect them to.
Laura: Unless they're boots. And then they're amazing.
Marisha: Unless they're very highly argued and debated-upon boots, in which case I still think the argument--
Darin: Are we about to have a debate about boots? I'm against them! Your turn.
Laura: I am for them, usually.
Darin: Continue, Councilor, but watch yourself.
Laura: Have you any idea where the key to Ioun is?
Darin: In the boots? We're talking about boots, are we?
Laura: Yes. Boots that hold a key to Ioun's location. Specifically.
Darin: I think the key might be here, but I don't really know.
Liam: Sprigg, the world is on the brink right now. It's worse than hobgoblins. We've come here in great need, and the world is in great need, and the power that I offer you is making a difference.
Darin: Then make me believe in Ioun. We'll make a difference together.
Liam: Make you believe?
Marisha: Of course he believes. Believing is not the question.
Darin: Books everywhere, you see. That's something you can hold. That's something you can learn.
Marisha: That's something that's tangible. Ioun is distant.
Laura: But she could be tangible if you'd help us find her.
Marisha: What if we have found her? What if Sprigg is right? What if all of the information that Ioun knows is here in Sprigg?
Taliesin: I really want to look at these. I want to look at these books really quickly. I'm having a moment. I just want to start looking at these titles. What are these books?
Matt: You go over and start walking towards the edge of the nearest bookcase, and all of you at once-- everyone but Sprigg, actually-- suddenly hear a voice come through, filling your mind, filling your consciousness, filling your ears. Sourceless, delivered to your consciousness directly. "Thank you for showing me where he is." And that's where we're going to take a break.
Liam: Fuck!
Marisha: How? We don't have the eye! What a cock!
Taliesin: Oh my god, he's been in the troll dick all along.
Marisha: It's always been the troll dick.
Matt: All right, we'll be in just a minute. We'll be back here in a few minutes, guys. For the Twitch giveaway, we have this awesome Peruvian walnut dice tray, leather interior. It's very nice. It's the same type that I have, actually, back here, which is nice. Giving it away for somebody in the Twitch chat, so run on over, and the code for the evening is Sprigg. S-P-R-I...
Darin: G-G.
Matt: G-G. Double G.
Darin: S-P-R-I-G-G spells Sprigg, ladies and gentlemen, if you want to win that valuable prize.
Matt: So pay attention in the chat. When it's time to, go ahead and enter Sprigg into the chat, and one lucky winner will be announced when we get back here. See you guys in a few minutes! [break]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome back. All right, so first and foremost, we have our winner for the dice tray from Wyrmwood. That is our friend k0sn1ght, spelled in the way that you spell your XBox Live name: k0sn1ght. Congratulations, you are the winner. Go ahead and contact Danoba and get your information and we'll get that shipped out to you. Bringing us back in.
Taliesin: That was fast.
Matt: Last we left off, you all, almost all of you, heard a singular familiar voice. The low, gravelly undead voice of The Whispered One fills your minds, saying, "Thank you for showing me where he is." In that moment where you all pause in place, you hear a series of simultaneous sounds (arrows firing) as a number of heavy crossbow bolts from nearby windows all fire simultaneously at Sprigg.
Marisha: Do I have time for a reaction?
Matt: No, you do not. This is a surprise round.
Liam: This is the sound of bolts, no.
Travis: It's all right, he can't die. It's cool. We're all right.
Matt: So that first one is a 24. What's your armor class?
Darin: My armor class is 19.
Matt: Okay! So you take 23 points of piercing damage.
Darin: Okay. Oh, there we go.
Matt: That's 17. That misses you. It strikes your shoulder and glances off. One bolt sinks into your chest and you look down and you see it's this big, long heavy metal bolt and it's jutting out from the side of where your shoulder and pec is. Another one rushes by and glances off your other shoulder. The third one--
Darin: Well, this is different.
Matt: That hits. That's a 25. That's 23 points of piercing damage.
Taliesin: Oh no.
Matt: That one actually misses; a six and a one. It slams into one of the nearby books right behind you, barely moving past your cheek. Fifth one, that is a 19 exactly, so you take 24 points of damage.
Laura: How many fucking bolts are there?
Marisha: 24?
Matt: They're all sneak attack. And that is 20.
Darin: Another one?
Matt: Another one.
Darin: Okay.
Matt: That one's going to be 26 points of piercing damage.
Darin: I'm gone.
Matt: You guys watch as all these bolts (arrows firing and impacting) into Sprigg's body and Sprigg falls back, unconscious on the side of the room. I'm going to bring out a map now.
Darin: Fly, you fools!
Marisha: (yelling) No, Sprigg!
Sam: Darin, it was really great having you on. Thanks so much.
Laura: Whoa, cool!
Sam: Whoa, this is a cute house!
Laura: Oh, I can't see inside of it.
Matt: Moving the top floor off.
Liam: There's crates of apples!
Sam: There's a sack of something in the corner! Oh my god, how are we all going to fit in there?
Matt: Sprigg is currently unconscious on the ground there. Percival was there talking. Trinket is off to the side.
Laura: Trinket! Where's the imp?
Matt: The imp is not currently visible. Pike would be over on the side here. Keyleth, Vax, where would you guys see yourselves right now? Actually, tell me where you would be. I think that's what I'm trying to ask.
Liam: I would be right next to Keyleth because I was holding her hand.
Matt: As I chuck you onto the ground.
Liam: It's all right. It's fine.
Matt: Yeah, comes back in a day later. All right, cool. So you're there holding that. Scanlan, where would you be?
Sam: Near Sprigg-ish.
Matt: All right, so I'll put you right there next to the scroll in the ground.
Liam: And Matt? Could you touch on the map where the bad man touched you? No, where the bad floorboard is?
Matt: Yes, actually, I can do that.
Liam: None of you know this.
Matt: None of you know this, except for you, which is actually why I'm not going to show you. You know how to avoid it, but nobody else knows where it is.
Laura: Where is the front door?
Matt: The front door is right there.
Liam: There, over by Grog on your right.
Sam: These trees need to move.
Laura: I know, these trees are a pain in our butts. Oh no.
Sam: There's cloaked men everywhere
Matt: You watch as one that was up in the stairs vanishes up top.
Travis: Oh, he actually made it upstairs?
Matt: He fired, and then ducked up there. I need everyone to roll initiative.
Sam: Initiative?
Matt: Yes. Including you, even though you're on the ground.
Marisha: Don't. Fuck. Me. Gil. It's fine. Gil did all right.
Sam: I don't trust Gil. I never roll on his dice.
Liam: Rarely. I have, but I got my Matt Colville meteorite.
Matt: 25 to 20?
Taliesin: 23.
Liam: 20.
Travis: 22.
Matt: Oh wow, so we have Percy, we have Grog, and Vax. Okay, 20 to 15?
Sam: 19.
Laura: Should somebody roll for Pike?
Matt: Yes, actually. Okay, yeah.
Darin: Also a 19.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: You've got a very low initiative bonus.
Matt: All righty, anybody else?
Laura: 13.
Marisha: 12. I don't know why I did deuces. 12.
Taliesin: Peace out.
Sam: NKOTB.
Marisha: 12 initiative, Wu Tang out.
Taliesin: That's our next shirt.
Sam: Quidd, everyone. Quidd.
Laura: Quidd.
Liam: Quid pro quo.
Matt: All right, so top of the combat round. The surprise round is done, you watch Sprigg fall to the ground, bolts sticking out of the side of the neck, the shoulder, and the body. Unconscious, now beginning to pool blood underneath where he's bleeding out, and you glance around and you see a series of shaded figures in the windows that all dart out of the way.
Marisha: Cowards.
Laura: Dicks.
Sam: Oh, they left. The fight's over, everyone.
Matt: Percy, you're up first.
Taliesin: Wow, this is a lot that happened. I'm going to click my boots, and I'm going to run up the wall and run upstairs.
Matt: Which, for the purposes of this, I will place the upstairs over here. So as you dart up, Percival, you run up the stairway there where the one guy you saw was standing.
Taliesin: Is he right there?
Matt: Yeah, he ducked out of the way, and there's also one figure that you recognize from the Shadowfell earlier. You see one of the ghastly creatures that was darting through the ruins leaping from from rooftop to rooftop. Its skin is grayish and long, its limbs lanky, its fingers curled into claws, and this long tongue dangling from his jaws, it's getting ready to run down the stairs as you charge him, and it goes (growls).
Taliesin: Manners! Action Surge!
Marisha: Yay, Manners!
Matt: Okay then.
Marisha: We're bad at manners, until now!
Matt: All righty, so what's the saving throw on that one?
Taliesin: It's a DC 20 strength. Oh, I'm sorry, no. Never mind. It's an attack roll.
Matt: Okay, so you have to roll first to see if you hit it.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: 18? Yeah, that definitely hits. It hits, and you watch as you pull the sphere out and chuck it in the direction of the creature. Pulls its claws back, slams into its chest, and then unravels. It falls to the ground, prone, unable to move, right there in the middle of the floor.
Taliesin: Just making sure that I can do this.
Matt: Was that your action, there, doing that?
Taliesin: That was my action surge. I can only do one round. Just seeing if I have anything at a bonus that I can do.
Matt: You spent your action--?
Taliesin: My action, I activated my boots. My action surge activating that. Do I have anything I can do with a bonus action?
Matt: Not really.
Taliesin: I'm going to turn to the other guy and pull the ripcord on the glove angrily. (revving)
Matt: You load up Diplomacy. Good. That's your turn, Percy. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Me? Oh? Can I go into a rage?
Matt: Yes, you may.
Travis: And he fell where?
Matt: He fell right there, on the ground, currently bleeding out.
Travis: Can I run over to Sprigg and shove a-- should I shove a health potion in his throat?
Laura: Well, we've got healers.
Travis: Right. I'll run upstairs to see where Percy went.
Matt: You rage-run just past Percival and you see there's one creature bound on the ground and there's another guy who's there with his crossbow, he's trying to reload, who sees Percival and is getting ready to pull it up as you leap in front.
Taliesin: Smash him!
Travis: Do you mind?
Taliesin: Please!
Travis: Yeah. (rage noises)
Matt: Go for it. Roll for a double attack.
Travis: Reckless! Not Great Weapon Master. Two-handed with the Dwarven Thrower. That's a lot. 30, minus-- oh, there is no minus. 32.
Matt: 32 hits. Second attack?
Travis: 31.
Matt: Hits. Go ahead and roll damage for both.
Travis: So they're not giants. So I just roll a d10. That's a ten. Rage damage. 25.
Matt: 25 damage on the first hit?
Travis: On the first one. Second one.
Laura: 24.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Nice. With your hammer, two hands, whack right across the side of its head. You see the jaw unhinge from the side. As he pulls back, it's hanging loosely there, and the second hit you clock right in the side of the temple, and it nearly goes unconscious, and picks itself up again, gets its crossbow ready. It's still holding. It's not down yet, but it's hurt badly. You can see now, up close, you can see these figures, they're dressed in very, very tight black leathers, cloaks enshrouding their body, the hood is still up, but you've knocked it back. There you see a human male in his late 40s, early 50s, the head shaved completely bald, a tattoo of black tendrils around the left eye, and the left eye is missing from the socket.
Travis: Black tendrils? Okay, cool. That's my turn.
Matt: That's your turn. All right. Grog's done. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay, let's talk this out. Click the Boots of Haste. I think, with 120 feet of movement, I can blur up the stairs to where Percy is in probably 50 or 60 feet. And then finish that movement and go past the guy, out the window, with all of my movement in 120 feet or less. Okay, so I'm doing that.
Matt: There's also a window here, a window here, and a window here. Just so you guys know, and a window here, if you wanted.
Liam: Definitely understand. Blur up the stairs, shoot past Percy, shoot past that guy, out the window.
Matt: You're on the balcony now, looking right about here.
Liam: Do I already see those guys?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: 19 plus 14 is a hell of a lot.
Matt: 19 plus 14? Yeah, you do see them. And you glance down, you can see they're hiding amongst bushes, and they're specifically stealthed. But you're keen of eye enough to see where they're placed.
Liam: I stealth, hide. Bonus action to hide. I'm going to use Luck. That's better. 27.
Matt: 27. Okay. You're not sure if they see you or not.
Liam: All right, then from this spot, if they're in range, I'm going to throw Whisper at one of them.
Matt: Right now, you are currently up here. So you glance off and you can barely see one that's over the edge of the roof right there. That's the only one you can see.
Liam: But I can see them and I can ignore three-quarters cover because of Sharpshooter.
Matt: So you barely see the edge of one there. Sharpshooter. I'd say yeah, you can. You can hit both, if you want.
Liam: So the one that I can see, hidden, I will try to throw Whisper. I'm going to hopefully sneak attack him and bamf there. That is a 28.
Matt: 28. He does not see you. So you have advantage on that if you want to roll again.
Liam: Right. Natural 20.
Taliesin: Turn him into paste.
Liam: Okay. (counting)
Sam: Did Pike roll?
Matt: Pike did.
Laura: What did she get?
Matt: 11. Typical Pike.
Marisha: She's after me.
Laura: Well, no, but Sprigg is right after Scanlan. He's before we are. So I'd rather get him up before.
Liam: So that one is 60 on that guy.
Matt: 60 points of damage?
Liam: Yes, and I bamf there.
Matt: As you chuck the dagger, like right towards where the center of the shoulderblades connect in the back he (groans) and you watch as the crossbow that he had drops to the ground and he crumples over on top of it, but he slowly starts getting to his feet out of the bushes. He looks really hurt, but he's still standing. And you appear right next to him there.
Liam: So I did movement, I hid for my bonus, I have action-action as a paladin. And action.
Matt: You have attack-attack as a paladin.
Liam: Attack-attack as a paladin. And then my bonus action. That was the first of attack-attack, so now I'll just do a regular attack, which is a 20--
Laura: (sarcastically) I'm so glad he got those boots back, I'm just so glad.
Liam: 30.
Matt: 30 hits.
Liam: That is a ten and I'm going to pump him full of poison. He has to make a DC check on 15.
Matt: That is a seven. No. Four plus three.
Liam: So he also gets, that was ten plus 14 total. 20 total, between the dagger and the poison.
Matt: So the second dagger, you shiv him in the side and he (groans) goes to spin with the heavy crossbow and try and pull away, and as soon as the poison through him he goes, (gurgles) and you can see blood vomit down the front of his chest, his eyes roll back and he twinges and falls to the ground.
Liam: And there's another guy there who can see me, right?
Matt: Yeah, and he's hidden, but he's like (scared, heavy breathing).
Liam: Whisper.
Matt: Okay, he's trying to see that you're not being seen.
Liam: That is 31. Yeah, okay. So that is two plus eight is ten, plus psychic damage. 18. I'm going to bamf there with Whisper.
Matt: Okay. All righty. You hit him and you stand there. You're right in front of him now. All righty. That ends your go. As you appear over on the other side, you realize that over in the clearing there, there is another one of the robed figures, this one clutching a long, black, smooth staff that crooks over in the front that looks like a hand holding an eye.
Marisha: What? Where? Who? There were more of them!
Liam: But you guys don't know that yet.
Matt: You guys don't know that yet, just him. Ending your turn, Vax. That guy on the ground is going to try and break free. That is a 17. DC 20?
Taliesin: DC 20.
Matt: It struggles on the ground and can't seem to break free of the current magic manacles that hold it in place.
Taliesin: Yeah, he's stuck. I love that we have floors!
Matt: Another one of these darts through the window, leaps across the way, right in front of Sprigg, and you being right there, Scanlan, goes, (angry hissing) and lashes out at you.
Marisha: He's going for Sprigg!
Taliesin: He's going for Scanlan.
Marisha: But because Scanlan's over Sprigg!
Taliesin: Oh, that's fair.
Matt: Makes two claw strikes at you. First one is 16 to hit.
Sam: Yes.
Matt: All right. You suffer eight points of slashing damage, and I need you make a constitution saving throw.
Sam: Oh boy. Not great. 16.
Matt: 16, okay.
Sam: Is it magical?
Matt: No, it is not magical, but you feel this pulse of some sort of necrotic disease hit your system, and you just manage to shrug it off. (relieved cheering)
Matt: The other claw comes towards you. That's a natural 20.
Sam: Natural 20 to hit, sure.
Matt: That is 30 points of slashing damage on the second hit. Make another saving throw, please.
Sam: That's 17.
Matt: 17. The second strike hits you and you feel as the side of your torso gets torn out of the side, the blood splatters onto Sprigg, who's already bloodied and now there's gnome blood on gnome blood. As you reach for your side, however, it does not take effect; you manage to shrug off.
Travis: Those are constitution saving throws?
Matt: Yeah. That ends the shadow ghast's turn. Sprigg, I need you to make a death saving throw, please. Roll a d20.
Liam: Come on, Sprigg!
Marisha: Come on, Sprigg!
Darin: 14.
Matt: Okay, so you're okay for now. You're stabilizing. You're not bleeding out, yet. Mark a success on your death saving throws there. Scanlan, what are you doing?
Sam: I am going to, bonus action-- down here, success, one.
Matt: Actually, before he even does that, what are you doing on your turn?
Sam: I'm going to heal him first.
Matt: That roll wouldn't matter because he may heal you before you come up. Don't worry about it.
Sam: I'll bonus action Healing Word him, 2nd-level. I will sing to him. I'll do a little line dance right in front of him and I'll say: (singing) I'll heal your heart, your achy breaky heart. I just don't think you'll understand. That if I heal your heart, your achy breaky heart, you got to wake up and kill a man!
All: Ooh!
Darin: (singing) If only you had used Mage Hand!
Sam: Nice!
Matt: So how much does he heal?
Sam: Seven plus six. 13.
Matt: You heal 13 hit points. That roll doesn't matter. You hear this echoing song in the back of your head. The second song today you've heard from your childhood. You come to consciousness. You wake up and look around you and you can see him singing to you as this giant horrible necrotic creature is looming right in front of you. You have metal bolts sticking out of your chest and an old sensation you haven't felt in a long time courses through your body, which is the need to survive.
Sam: It's my turn still.
Matt: It's both of your turns at the same time.
Sam: I will hold my turn.
Matt: What are you going to do?
Sam: Dimension Door, but I'm holding until either Pike or Keyleth heals him more. And I will also say to him, old man, do you have some fight left in you?
Darin: I hope so.
Sam: Hold that thought for one second.
Darin: Holding.
Matt: So what are you doing?
Darin: There's a bookcase, is there not?
Matt: There's bookcases here, bookcase there. There's books strewn and clustered in these corners.
Darin: I'd like to, if I could, use the Ring of Telekinesis to pull a bookcase down upon an attacker.
Matt: Okay. Currently there's a bunch of books up here on a shelf, you can pull them down on him if you'd like.
Darin: I would like to do that.
Matt: So from the ground, you yank a bunch of heavy tomes off of this large shelf that goes flying towards this creature. I'm going to make this a dexterity saving throw for it.
Marisha: The pen is mightier than the bookcase security!
Matt: What's the DC on the telekinesis ring?
Darin: Where was it? Ring of Telekinesis.
Matt: I'll pull it up here real fast. Looking up magical items really fast. I have it here. Oh, it's for the spell Telekinesis? That's right. What's your spell DC?
Darin: 17.
Matt: 17. No, that's a failure. So for this, go ahead and roll 3d6.
Sam: He failed, or the guy failed?
Matt: The guy failed. He didn't dodge out of the way. He's like, (confused snarling, book impacts) and gets pummeled from behind by a bunch of tomes, books, and random glass baubles that were on the shelf that shatter against the back of its head.
Darin: We have a six, we have a five, and we have a two. 13.
Matt: Then add your intelligence modifier.
Darin: My intelligence modifier is a four.
Matt: 17, nice! 17 points of damage to that one. As you slam it in the back of the head (impacts) and it doubles over and (snarling), its long tongue slashing around. You're still on the ground, and it's over you. Is there anything else you want to do on your turn?
Darin: Demistrik?!
Matt: You hear nothing.
Taliesin: Not cool.
Darin: Can I cast something?
Matt: That is an action to do that, so if you have a bonus action spell, you could do that.
Darin: I believe I do. Tasha's Hideous Laughter?
Matt: I believe that's an action to cast, unfortunately.
Darin: I don't think we have any bonus actions. Oh, are there any healing potions that I can use my Telekinesis to get a healing potion to me?
Matt: You can do that next round. The attack was your one action. You can stand on your feet, if you'd like to.
Darin: No, I'm gonna stay right here.
Matt: Got it. That ends your turn. Now, these guys go again.
Laura: That's good, they're at disadvantage, now, to hit you. They are! Because you're prone.
Matt: This guy's going to move in. This guy is still standing and is going to drop the crossbow and pull out his shortsword. Is going to go ahead and attack you, Grog, first. That is 13?
Travis: Misses.
Matt: And a 27.
Travis: That does hit.
Matt: You take five plus four, that's nine points of slashing damage, reduced to five, yeah. Round down, so it's four. Struck twice, missed both. Both of these guys are going to fire at-- one of them's going to fire at Sprigg on this end because it's their goal, here. With disadvantage, that is a 16? What's your AC again?
Darin: My AC is 19.
Matt: 19, yeah. It darts over you. It misses, it hits the side of the wall. The other guy's going to strike again with disadvantage. That's a 14. And you see the other guy pulling back with a crossbow and fire. You roll out of the way and it (arrow vibrating) into the wooden flooring right next to you.
Darin: Are there any traps that they hit?
Matt: No. That one is going to attack you, Vax, because you're right there in front of it. That's going to be a 13. Does not hit. Second strike, another 13. Both of its shortsword attacks, you duck out of the way and dodge, moving around very quickly. All righty. Those two right there, one of them is going to, because it saw that you got up, Scanlan, they're going to fire two bolts directly at you. That is a 16 to hit?
Sam: That hits.
Matt: Okay, and the second one is a 24.
Sam: Everything hits.
Matt: You are currently in base-to-base with one of their companions, so they both get sneak attack on you. 19 points of piercing damage from the first hit. 24 points of piercing damage from the second hit. And then they both duck around the side here.
Sam: What was the second one? 24.
Matt: They both, we'll say, they vanish from sight. You're not quite sure where they are right now. Those two also duck out of sight, not quite sure where they are, either. That ends their go. Now, the guy in the back right there, who noticed Vax show up, is going to, after you slaughter one of the guys, and stab the other one, is going to angrily go ahead and use Blight on you. Can you go ahead an make a constitution saving throw, please?
Liam: Natural 20. You fucking dick, necro guy!
Matt: All righty. That does half the damage.
Liam: It's still a lot.
Taliesin: I feel like a natural 20 should auto-fail this.
Laura: I know, right?
Matt: 21 points of necrotic damage to you.
Liam: All righty.
Matt: And is going to-- four, five, six. All righty. That ends his turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: I'm going to run over to the window that those guys disappeared from.
Matt: Over this way or this way?
Laura: Right there, yeah. Can I see that motherfucker? Did I see him run past the window?
Matt: You know what? Yes, because he was not stealthing. You watch as he darts by, and you would have a shot, yeah.
Laura: All right, then I'm going to shoot at him. I'm going to Hunter's Mark him!
Matt: All righty, look at that!
Laura: Trinket doesn't have enough movement to get over by him, does he?
Matt: No, but Trinket can attack whatever's in your area, too.
Laura: I'm going to attack him with my Bramble Shot. With the Blazing Bowstring. Ooh, yeah. That's a 31.
Matt: 31? That hits!
Laura: Yes! Okay! Do I get sneak attack on him? I don't, do I?
Matt: No.
Laura: Damn! At least I got Hunter's Mark. Okay.
Liam: Hey Matt, I realized. I never shot out the wings, so I shouldn't have had as much movement as I did, so I think we should take the damage back from my last attack.
Matt: (counting). 50 to get up to the top there, so at your double speed, you'd be at 60, threw the dagger and threw the dagger. You're fine. It still works out.
Laura: Okay, 28 plus my 4d8 piercing damage. That's balls.
Matt: You're on deck, Keyleth, just so you know.
Laura: Seven, nine, plus nine is 37. 37 points of damage.
Matt: The first arrow hits him in the stomach, doubles forward and pulls back. Now, glancing over, saw you rush up and couldn't get out in time and now is going to try and back up as you're taking the second shot.
Laura: Does he roll a DC of over 17? A strength save?
Matt: Rolls a natural 17. Literally. Strength save? Minus one strength modifier. (cheering)
Matt: Oh, silly necromancer. You and your strength of nine. All right, so he is currently entangled in the brambles as the vines wrap around and pull him in, almost near the tree. You see the staff is pulled close to his chest.
Laura: Nice. Then I am going to shoot him. Oh, wait! I didn't add my Blazing Bowstring damage. Eight more for the Blazing Bowstring. And then I'm going to shoot him again. I'm just asking: do you get sneak attack damage if they're restrained?
Matt: You do, yeah. You can do that. You have advantage on the attack, remember, because he's restrained.
Laura: That's okay. Eight plus 14 is what? 32?
Matt: Yeah, that hits.
Laura: Oh gosh! Okay! Ten, 11, 12, 13, plus sneak attack. 13. What's that? Ten. So 23. And then Hunter's Mark. Plus one. 24.
Matt: 24. Nice. The second arrow hits right in the throat, and you can see it doesn't hit anything vital, but you can see blood's starting to pour out. It's one of those things that if he were to pull it out, it would probably be very bad. But he's leaving it in right now. He's looking pretty rough.
Travis: The necromancer is?
Matt: Yeah. All righty. That ends your turn? Keyleth, your turn.
Laura: I'm going to step away from the window.
Matt: Okay. Step away from the window.
Laura: No, against the wall.
Matt: Against the wall there? You push the table back a bit; book almost falls off the top. What's Trinket doing?
Laura: Trinket is going to run over to Sprigg and Scanlan.
Matt: Up to Scanlan, or the guy who's there?
Laura: Just to the guy.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Just try to growl at him and scare him because he can't attack him.
Taliesin: He's technically now engaged with the bear, so if he walks away, the bear gets an attack of opportunity.
Matt: That's true. That ends your turn. Trinket goes (roars) right in front of the creature. Keyleth, what are you doing?
Marisha: Okay. In my weird, emotional panic, Keyleth is going to turn and look around and she sees Vex firing a bow and Sprigg down on the floor, and she's upset, and she's just going to scream at the top of her lungs and do a Fire Storm around the building. Just (screams) and then I'm going to go (boof) where I think people might be in my rage.
Matt: Okay! So around the building where?
Marisha: Around the building. Sorry, Vax. I don't really know you're there, but around here and around here, and I'm sure I see Vex shooting at things, right? I'm going to try and go around.
Matt: So you have right here.
Marisha: Here, around, and that way.
Matt: All right. Okay, because you didn't see Vax outside.
Marisha: No. He's getting hit.
Matt: You saw Vax run upstairs.
Marisha: I just know there were people shooting through this window and through this window, so I'm doing a perimeter around.
Matt: How many squares is it? Ten, right?
Marisha: Ten ten-by-tens.
Matt: These two here get caught in it, as well as Vax and that guy there.
Laura: What about the magician guy?
Matt: If she's doing a perimeter? No.
Laura: Did you know that I was shooting at somebody?
Matt: She doesn't see the magician. Doesn't know where it is. "The Magician." The Prestige!
Liam: I have evasion.
Matt: Which means it's either half or nothing.
Liam: Right. At advantage because of the boots. What do I have to match?
Matt: Her DC, which is 21, right?
Marisha: 21.
Matt: Dexterity saving throw.
Liam: Oh yeah, way higher than that. We're good.
Matt: Yeah, you take no damage. You duck out of the Fire Storm just in time for it to (raging fire).
Marisha: I need two more d10s.
Liam: Yeah, dexterity save, man. Area effect.
Taliesin: Smoky d10 and spiky d10. And you get rerolls!
Marisha: I reroll ones. None of these are ones, unfortunately. (counting)
Darin: I just noticed the little lanterns glowing. Bravo!
Matt: Oh! Bravo to Dwarven Forge, man.
Sam: Well, it's your house.
Matt: True. Good torches you have in there.
Travis: Way to be energy-conscious with those LEDs!
Marisha: 39 fire damage.
Matt: 39 damage. This guy incinerates. He screams and burns. He manages to dodge partway out, but even the partial damage burns him and he (screams). You see him run off into the forest ten or so steps, on fire, like a stun man shot in a movie before he (impact) on the ground and smolders there in the distance. Those guys take it. What was the amount again?
Marisha: 39, and they're on fire.
Taliesin: It's hard to stealth when you're on fire.
Matt: They're both on fire.
Marisha: So that was my action. I'm going to do that out of my staff as I slam it down. I'm going to look at Sprigg and say: gods damn it, Sprigg! And I'm going to use that as my Healing Word, and I'm going to cast Healing Word at second level. Which is 2d4. 11 points to you. And then I'm going to use my free action that I have to turn into a fire elemental.
Matt: Your free action?
Marisha: Changing into something's not a bonus, it's a free action to change into my beast shape. Circle of the Moon, bitch!
Sam: Did you just call your fiancé--
Travis: -- a bitch?
Marisha: No! Combat wild shape.
Matt: Combat Wild Shape makes it a bonus action, as opposed to an action. That's the difference.
Liam: I would like to retract my "bitch," please.
Marisha: All right, so I'm just Keyleth.
Matt: Does that end your turn? All right, so as Keyleth's turn ends, it comes to Pike's. The entire exterior perimeter of this part of the house is on fire. Flames are now starting to catch. It is dry wood; the entire building is made from wood of the forest, so your home is now in flames.
Marisha: Wait, hang on. No, I'm doing the perimeter. I did think about this, which is why I didn't attack the guy in the house.
Travis: If you napalm the forest, the trees will probably catch fire.
Liam: It's a quick jump, though.
Matt: In order to do the perimeter, it's not a blazing inferno, but it's starting to catch. Flames are starting to lick up the sides.
Liam: End it quick, we can save it.
Matt: Fire Storm's a dangerous spell.
Laura: Let's try to save those books before they all burn.
Sam: He's an old guy. We were either going to kill him or burn his house down.
Matt: It's Vox Machina's MO, man!
Sam: It was always going to end this way.
Taliesin: Things you own end up owning you.
Darin: So glad I wore a jacket.
Matt: Pike is going to rush forward and is also going to attempt to Healing Word you at level two. It's a heal fountain on you. That is six plus five. That's 11 hit points you heal.
Sam: As soon as she does that, I grab him and we Dimension Door out the house.
Matt: Where do you Dimension Door?
Sam: To the only place I know  front of the house. Outside the front door. Not right outside, but towards the edge of the map there.
Matt: Over here?
Sam: Yeah, anywhere around there, on approach to the house.
Travis: Or do you want to be more over yonder?
Sam: Where's the front door to the house?
Marisha: Right there.
Sam: So I'd be 20 feet, the way we approached to the house. So where you got it, if that's the way we approached.
Matt: You guys approached this direction. So you're there. Make a perception check, Scanlan.
Sam: Okay. Ten.
Matt: Okay. You don't see the two hidden fellows over here. You see something large and hulking moving through the forest this direction, at a quick glance.
Sam: Is it naked?
Matt: No.
Taliesin: Then we're going to be okay.
Matt: You guys have pulled out of that house. You're still on the ground and all of a sudden your body physically shifts, and you're looking up at the trees. You glance around and you can see the back of your house, you can hear the frantic fray going on. You see the necromancer who's currently covered in brambles and held in place. You see a couple of guys on fire, on the side screaming on the side of the house, and your house starting to catch fire. That's okay. Pike, on her turn, is going to--
Marisha: Keyleth has anger issues. It's fine.
Matt: Because it's a single target...
Sam: It's the "This is fine" meme, except it's just Keyleth.
Matt: She's going to cast a level five Guiding Bolt because that's what Pike does. So ranged spell attack against that guy. 11 plus-- yeah, that hits. That's a 21. So that is 8d6 radiant damage. Nice. 19.
Laura: Is she doing it to the magician?
Matt: No, this guy right there, in the room.
Sam: He's an illusionist, Laura.
Travis: Is she doing it against Copperfield? Is David Blaine with them?
Matt: So after she heals Sprigg, and Sprigg vanishes, she grabs her holy symbol and goes, "Chill out!" and shoots this giant flashing beam of divine energy that slams into it. You watch as a lot of its flesh burns away from the impact. It's still standing, but it's a shining beacon. The next attack against it has advantage. And then Pike's going to back up with you, Vex, towards the back where the bookcase is and goes, "You smell something?" You now hear, simultaneously, (slow thudding) and watch as the side wall and the back wall explode inward, as splinters of wood and stone (crashing) comes from this wall here--
Laura: Oh no, all of his stuff!
Marisha: So I didn't destroy your house first.
Liam: Flames! Flames, less of a thing.
Taliesin: On the side of the house.
Liam: Flames on the side of the house!
Matt: Two familiar hulking entities come barrelling into the chamber. Remember those giant things you saw walking through the Shadowfell that you barely avoided with the mask?
Marisha: The censer?
Matt: Who has the censer? Not on you right now. You don't carry a fucking giant smoking censer with you!
Laura: Oh, really? I didn't realize it was that big.
Taliesin: I think at that point, I think we put it in the Bag of Holding.
Sam: But you did make a bunch of those herbs.
Marisha: I do have the herbs.
Sam: And there's a shit-ton of shit on fire right now.
Matt: They burst through. (roaring) This big yell echoes through their metal masks. It sounds like this horrible-- imagine a giant vocal scream that's peaking on the audio level against a tinny metallic speaker.
Liam: (Bane voice) Your punishment will be more severe!
Matt: Essentially. This one's going to go after Keyleth. This one's going to make two swipes at Trinket because Trinket's right there. As they barrel through, part of the roof breaks. Guys up top, Percy and Grog, you feel the ground buckle a little bit below you and you drop about two or three inches as the building is starting to lose its physical frame.
Taliesin: Oh god, Grog, what did Keyleth do?
Travis: Thanks, Keyleth. You beat me by one second!
Taliesin: I'm well aware. It was totally worth it.
Marisha: #thanksKeyleth.
Matt: That's one's going to go ahead and do two slam attacks against Keyleth.
Marisha: Yeah, I've earned it. Come on!
Matt: That's 23 to hit.
Marisha: Yeah, that hits.
Matt: And that's a 29 to hit.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: That's 20 points of bludgeoning damage from the first hit. And the second one is 30 points of bludgeoning damage. (two slams) And it slams you. The second fist actually pins you up against the wall there, and you feel ribs crack inside your chest and now-- they're both down low in this hulking mass. They're almost wider than they are any other dimension with how they're crouched down and the thickness of their body. They're taking up almost the entirety of the room right now.
Marisha: You said 30 points, right?
Matt: Yes, for the second one.
Marisha: So I'm at 83 points.
Matt: Correct. The other one's going to slam twice into Trinket. Giant fists. That's going to be a 28.
Laura: 28 hits.
Matt: And a 22.
Laura: 22 hits.
Matt: That is five plus six. 11 points of bludgeoning damage to Trinket.
Laura: Halved.
Matt: Halved, correct. And 22 points of bludgeoning damage, halved.
Laura: Okay, so 11 plus six is 27 points.
Matt: That ends their go. We're at the top of the round. Percy, you're upstairs.
Taliesin: Okay, this all happened. That's awkward. That's okay, I know where I am. I'm going to run out onto the balcony really quick.
Marisha: There's room over here.
Travis: That guy's still up there with us, right?
Taliesin: Yeah. I figure you're going to handle him. Grog, take care of these two. What do I see outside on the balcony?
Matt: You see, currently down below-- make a perception check. Actually, you wouldn't even see them from your perspective.
Taliesin: I just rolled a natural 20.
Matt: Right, it's blocking your vision from this side. You do see Scanlan, you see Sprigg who is currently conscious, you see this necromancer who is currently held with brambles, and you see two streaking flames and hear screams on this side of the building.
Taliesin: Weird question, really quickly. Where is that giant log trap?
Matt: Right there.
Taliesin: How much swing does it have? Is it locked all the way over here, or is it hung back there?
Matt: It looks more like a drop.
Taliesin: Oh, so it's a drop on the door. Good to know. In the meantime, I'm going to run on the exterior of the wall, like right over here, if that makes sense. That's going to be my movement. I'm going to take some fun, happy pot shots at these bastards.
Laura: At the necromancer?
Taliesin: At the necromancer! Let's start with that bound necromancer. He's fun.
Liam: With the Vecna eye.
Taliesin: With the Vecna eye. He's bound, so I have advantage to hit him?
Matt: Yes, you do.
Taliesin: All right, I'm going to use my Animus gun so I still have a hand open, and I'm also going to burn a point of grit so that I can get him to drop his staff. Here we go with advantage. Oh darn, it was so close. 28.
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: That's-- ooh! Fancy. 18 points of damage, four points of psychic damage, and he has to make a strength saving throw or drops his items.
Matt: Oh, don't worry, he drops the staff, because there's not much left of his head. When you hit the arm, the staff's clutching, but you slam it and it hits the side of the head and causes the right side of the face to explode against the tree, the brambles still clutching as it falls limp to the ground, and they crush the body into a small rock of flesh.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Marisha: You get a grit point back, right?
Laura: You get a grit point back, you get a grit point back!
Matt: You just barely see them; they have three-quarters cover. But you have sharpshooter.
Taliesin: Three-quarters cover, what does that mean in this crazy world? I'm going to burn a grit for advantage and shoot one of them.
Matt: The one right furthest on the side there?
Taliesin: Yeah. I'll start there. Let's give it a shot. I love advantage; it's so wonderful. 32. I really should have done extra damage. So that's 1d10 plus six. That hits, obviously. 32 to hit?
Matt: Yeah, that hits. Goodbye, necromancer.
Taliesin: 17 points of damage plus two points of psychic damage.
Matt: How much was that, sorry?
Taliesin: 17 points of damage plus two points of psychic damage.
Matt: Okay. All right, he's still standing. (bullet impact, yelps) He starts looking up to see where the shot came from as the giant bullet wound through the torso and out the back of the shoulder was clean through. You hear him breathing, gasping for breath. (gasping)
Taliesin: I'm going to take another shot at him. I'm going to make this a sharpshooter shot, and again with advantage because that's fun. Here we go. Damn! Almost a crit. That's 29. That hits.
Matt: That hits, yeah. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: 14 points of damage-- I'm sorry, 24 points of damage plus two points of psychic damage.
Matt: He falls to the ground, face first. The second shot hits him in the chest. He just goes down, crumples. His body begins to smolder.
Taliesin: I use my bonus action to reload and stare at the nice person below me.
Matt: That ends Percival's turn. Grog, you're up. You hear, downstairs, the (heavy thudding). There's the guy in front of you who's like, (angry breathing). What are you going to do?
Travis: Can I smash my Titanstone Knuckles together and cast Enlarge on myself?
Matt: You can! And your head goes into the roof! (thudding)
Marisha: We're real sorry about your house.
Darin: It wasn't a house. It was a prison.
Laura: Well, then you're welcome.
Travis: I'm hoping the floor gives.
Matt: The floor gives out. As your head (crashing) into the ceiling (creaking, crashing) it falls out from under you. You come falling down on top of this guy. Rubble falls around. Keyleth, I need you to make a dexterity saving throw. I need Trinket to make a dexterity saving throw. The other shadow ghast fails.
Marisha: Nine.
Laura: 14.
Matt: Trinket, you, and the shadow ghast all take 22 points of bludgeoning damage as the roof caves in over on top. Large part of the upper floor now falls and this guy stumbles and is now prone there. He also takes damage. You take 22 points of bludgeoning damage from falling through the wreckage. Trinket's is halved, yes.
Marisha: Ugh, debris, ugh!
Matt: That kills him. The shadow ghast right here.
Travis: Because he had barely any left.
Matt: Yeah. He's like, "Huh?" (crashing) Gets rained on with rubble, broken, splintered wood and stone.
Travis: The guy in Manners, he fell too, right?
Matt: His part of the ceiling didn't fully collapse. He's just out of the way. He's dangling off the edge right now, as he shakes, it's making its way towards the hole. The whole ceiling didn't collapse, just the area right below.
Travis: Beautiful. Can I take Tweedledee to my right and make two reckless attacks against him? They're not giants, right?
Matt: No, they're not giants. They're considered undead.
Travis: They're considered undead. 30 to hit. And the second one.
Matt: Big targets.
Travis: 29.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: So ten. 24 points. Plus the Enlarge-- 25.
Matt: 25 with the first hit. (whack)
Travis: 22 with the second one.
Matt: 22 damage on the second hit. (whacks) You're hitting him. Laying on its back, it has these metal spikes jamming out of its flesh. You can see portions of other creatures that it had slain that have been jammed on these spikes and rotted away on its armor. So as you're hitting it, you're knocking away parts of partially decomposed creatures that previously fell in battle to one of these creatures. As you're slamming into it, you can see it's just rippling, partially decayed muscle that seems to be unnaturally strengthened by whatever necrotic energy keeps it stitched together and alive. It's a thick sack of hit points.
Travis: Wow. Cool. Good to know.
Matt: Is that your turn; are you doing anything else?
Travis: That's interesting. I'm going to go into a frenzied rage as my bonus action.
Matt: Okay, and that's the end of your turn? Okay. End of Grog's turn. Vax, you're up. You heard all this go on and now the whole building is starting to catch fire.
Liam: I'm going to bolt to that window.
Matt: Right there?
Liam: No, other way. So I have a view of Keyleth, the creature, and Grog. I'm going to throw Whisper-- I've got sharpshooter-- at that thing, and bamf there.
Matt: I will say, at proximity to the flames that are starting to catch, you do take three points of fire damage.
Liam: Fine.
Matt: You threw the dagger at the big guy?
Liam: Whisper goes to the window at that guy there.
Matt: Go ahead and roll an attack.
Liam: And it's flanking, right? Because of where Grog is, or Keyleth?
Matt: It's not flanking, but you get to add sneak attack modifier.
Liam: Okay. Yeah, that's fine. That's 32.
Matt: Yeah, that hits. So you appear next to it.
Liam: Three plus psychic damage is four plus this junk. (counting) 33, doubled to 66 plus psychic damage is 74. Bamf there.
Matt: And you appear next to it. As the dagger sinks into its torso, you watch as its chest muscles and the iron cage-like armor around it seems to swallow the dagger. As it goes inside, you watch as some of the muscles all of a sudden (squelch) fall off of its body, like whatever energy's holding it together is untethered and this weird, fleshy, stitched-together creature is starting to fall apart. It's looking pretty hurt.
Liam: Okay, so here's what I wanted to do. So movement-- and I have action-action, action, action-- action-action, action, bonus action.
Travis: (repeating) Action, action--
Laura: (repeating) Action, action--
Marisha: (repeating) Action, action--
Liam: Guys, it's the rules in the book! You can bust my balls all you want--
Matt: Well, that's your first attack, so you have your second attack.
Liam: So action-action for my regular attack, right?
Matt: Attack-attack!
Liam: It's just semantics. Attack-attack, hasted action, bonus action. So that was the first of my attack-attacks. And here's the second one.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: 30.
Matt: Well, we have dagger, dagger, dagger. Now we have attack, attack, attack, attack, attack, attack as our next t-shirt. (laughter)
Liam: I'm dumping a level two Smite into this, against an undead. That's seven, 10, 11. Ooh, it's cocked. 17 for that hit.
Matt: 17 with the additional--?
Liam: With attack-attack.
Matt: Right. Well, but you said you dumped Divine Smite into that?
Liam: Into that one.
Matt: You did the additional damage for it being undead? Okay, so that was how much total?
Liam: Whatever I just said. It was like 16.
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17. 17 will do it, actually. So as you rush in with the second dagger, you jam up into the same space where it's falling apart, and you hear this dull (shockwave sound) on the inside as the divine energy radiates from the strike and its body (slurping) sloughs off of the bones and around your arm. It slowly falls around your arm like old gelatin and (slurping) slips into the ground, covering the floor around you.
Liam: Okay, I'm going to do the old crouch. Not that she needs it, but crouch in front of Keyleth. And then I have my hasted action for an attack and bonus action for an attack into the other one. 29, and the second one is higher than 29. I'm going to dump Smite into it. Three-- you're making me mess up the math, Laura!
Laura: Psychic damage.
Liam: (laughing) I can't keep track of the math!
Matt: (singing) Epic-level DND!
Liam: 25 on that towards that guy, with Smite added. And then the last dagger, with Smite, at level one, is two plus is 10, 14, 19.
Matt: 19, okay.
Liam: I dumped a ton of Smite into that.
Matt: You didn't add your modifier to the third strike, right?
Liam: I don't know, so why don't you just minus six? 19, so we'll call it 13. Some people might have been catcalling me while I was trying to do math.
Matt: That's okay. No worries. You hit with the two final strikes. They blast into it. You watch as some of the armor gets thrown off its body. It takes a little hit, but the other creature looks like it's largely all right. That finishes Vax's turn.
Liam: Let me enjoy my last two months of life!
Matt: Shadow ghast. What's the DC on the sphere again?
Sam: 20.
Matt: Is it 20? 19. He can't escape from this freaking sphere. The shadow ghast is up on the second floor going (growling). Manners, man. All right. Scanlan and Sprigg, what do you guys want to do?
Darin: I have a question. The gentleman who had an arrow in his throat: he's gone, right? He's been blown apart.
Matt: Yeah. Actually, make a perception check.
Darin: Okay. That's a d20, isn't it?
Matt: Yep, d20 and then add your perception modifier.
Darin: Got it. That's a 17.
Matt: A 17, okay. You glance over and you see two guys who are hiding amongst the bushes on the side there.
Darin: Now, it's too far away to cast a spell.
Matt: No, depending on the spell's range, depending on what you want to do.
Darin: Tasha's Hideous Laughter.
Matt: That we can do.
Marisha: That's such a good spell.
Matt: It's a fun one. So bringing up Tasha's here, looking at the range. There we go. It's a 30-feet range, so you want to get up and get a little closer, probably.
Darin: I will do that, if I could.
Matt: All right, so that's half your movement, and you can move two more spaces. You can hit one guy. So one guy of these two you can select.
Darin: The first one.
Matt: That one there? All righty.
Darin: Yes. I think his name is Dave? Roll a perception?
Matt: Make a saving throw, a wisdom save. That is a ten! Your spell DC is a 17. You watch as the guy there who has his crossbow out and sees you get up, spins around, has this giant, heavy crossbow, the bolt very recognizable because you still have three of them in your body. Aims it towards you and then suddenly (maniacal laughter) and drops the crossbow to the ground and doubles over laughing, falling to the ground and is now kicking and laughing like a hyena right now, unable to do anything.
Darin: Knock knock!
Matt: (maniacal laughter)
Darin: Right! (laughter)
Matt: All right, is that your turn?
Darin: Yes, it is.
Matt: All right.
Sam: There's another guy over there? Have I seen him yet?
Matt: You haven't, actually. You do see this guy's on fire right now, who is still around.
Sam: Oh, I see somebody.
Matt: Yeah, and you can see that hulking figure come running through, and you hear the (explosion) through the back of the building.
Sam: For the beginning of the round, I'll say, guys, I think large giants are coming. Be aware.
Laura: (screaming)
Travis: (screaming)
Sam: What? I can't hear you! Speak clearly!
Liam: Threepio! Where could he be?!
Sam: Okay. Shit. I'll approach the guy I can see burning, on fire. That's where the front door is, right? Is he in front of the front door?
Matt: The log is right up in this area.
Sam: Oh yeah. That. So I'll take out my Wand of Magic Missiles, and I will just take down the rope.
Matt: Okay. You watch as three missiles fire out of the wand and slam into the bits of rope up top. As they explode, it's enough of an impact to cause it, as opposed to fall straight down, just spin and fall. I'm going to go ahead and roll a dice to see which direction it's going to land from its front point. So we'll say inward would be one, two, three, four, five, six. That's a six. So it plummets down, hits the ceiling, scrapes off and slams down onto him. He's going to try and make a dexterity saving throw. That is a seven plus four, nope. That's an 11. Go ahead and roll 4d8 please.
Laura: 4d8?
Darin: Is this Dr. Comedy, who's writhing in laughter?
Matt: I think so. Oh. No, sorry, he's over here. This guy's on fire from her earlier.
Sam: Oh, that's a five. 16.
Matt: 16 points of damage to him.
Sam: That's not a lot.
Laura: You only got 16 on 4d8?
Matt: It's not enough to kill him, but it slams on him and then falls over. You see as both of his flaming hands on the ground going, (groans). He's currently restrained underneath it right there, and on fire.
Darin: Knock knock. (laughter)
Matt: All right, you going to stay where you are?
Sam: No. I'm going to move towards any entrance or window I see. I can't really see over there.
Matt: There's a window here, window here. This one has flames in front of it. This one's available.
Sam: I'll go towards that [no audio] other one.
Matt: Okay. Four, five. That's as far as you can move there. You see the guy on the ground who's laughing in front of you.
Sam: Yeah, no thanks to him. And for a bonus, I guess I will inspire Darin De Paul, or rather, Sprigg.
Liam: Why not both?
Sam: I will sing to him, (singing) You had a bad day, you gettin' knocked down. I sing you a song just to turn it around! You say you don't know, but please don't die. I'll sing you this song and maybe you'll go for a ride. You had a bad day. (speaking) I don't know how that song goes.
Matt: All righty, so you get an inspiration die. You get a d12 that you can use on any sort of skill. You don't have to use it right now, but whenever you use a skill check or an ability check you can add that to it if you want to. There you go.
Darin: Thank you. You know, I had a bad day.
Sam: (singing) You had a bad day. (groaning and laughing)
Matt: All right, so now it's the assassin's turn. Keyleth, how much fire damage does it do when they're on fire? Is it d10?
Marisha: (stuttering) Oh jeez. Fire Storm. Yeah, no. d10.
Matt: Thought so. All right, he takes eight fire damage.
Taliesin: Yay! Under a log.
Matt: Under a log. He's going to try and break free from restraint. Nope, that is a 14. He cannot move that giant tree that's currently crushing him on the ground. He tries to reach out for his crossbow and aim it out towards Sprigg with one hand because it's still loaded. But he has super disadvantage on this strike.
Sam: Super disadvantage. Is that in the book?
Matt: It is now.
Laura: That's in the new campaign guide. Super disadvantage. Only when you're stuck under a tree on fire.
Matt: Sure, I'll do all three. All right. Eight, 12, 12. I made him roll super disadvantage. What does this remind me of? Like a terrible old sci-fi movie where the bad guy's on the ground with the gun trying to aim it at the hero with his final shot and the hero just walks up and steps on the gun. You (whoosh) sidestep the bolt as it fires. Nothing on you.
Darin: Of course.
Matt: The crossbow drops, (grunting).
Darin: Knock knock.
Matt: (crying) On fire. All righty, that ends his turn.
Darin: (whispering) Comedy comes in threes.
Matt: This guy back here is going to go ahead and since you're the one who has his friend writhing on the ground, is going to go ahead and try to shoot you with his crossbow. You do see him, although he's unaware of that, so he thinks it's a sneak attack shot. That is a 14.
Taliesin: You got to get better cultists, man.
Matt: I know, seriously. They come in large numbers, so yeah. This one just (impact sound) hits the tree to your left. His aim's off.
Travis: He's missing an eye. His depth perception sucks.
Matt: Exactly. And he goes ahead and darts behind this building there, vanishing.
Sam: Did I see the bolt or any indication that he exists?
Matt: You do. He reveals himself when he fires. So you watched him come out of the bushes and (whoosh) fire and then duck around the side of the building. The guy on the ground is going to try and save against your spell. That is a 13 plus zero. Nope. He's still laughing. He's just on the ground, (laughing). Tears in his eyes now.
Taliesin: I love that spell.
Matt: That's the end of the assassins' turn. Necro's dead. Vex, you're up.
Laura: I'm going to Hunter's Mark the big undead monster in the room. And then I'm going to shoot him! With the Blazing Bowstring!
Taliesin: Be careful. You might catch the building on fire.
Laura: Oh, but I'm going to use the sharpshooter thing.
Matt: Take minus five and do additional damage? Okay.
Laura: Which I don't know if I should have done that on this particular one. It was 17 to hit.
Matt: 17 is exactly his armor class.
Liam: Yas, Pelor queen! (laughter)
Laura: Five plus eight is 13. Plus sneak attack, because he's got Trinket next to him. 13, 18, 23, sorry! 23 and then lightning damage. 24. 25, 26. And then Blazing Bowstring. God dang! 27.
Matt: Okay, 27. So that's your first strike. (arrow shot) First one just (impact sound) hits in the side and you see the bolt of energy arc out and the flames burn up the arrow. By the way, the wall behind you is starting to get really warm.
Laura: I'm going to move forward. I'm going to actually move toward the corner where Keyleth is.
Matt: There's a guy on the ground there.
Laura: Oh, there is?
Matt: Yeah. So you've got to step over him.
Laura: I'm going to step on him.
Matt: As you move past, he does get a swing with his shortsword at you. Oh, wow. That's a 25.
Laura: Oh, wow. He hits me. Probably because I stepped on him.
Matt: I think so. So you take nine points of slashing damage. Just like, (pain sound) as you're walking past.
Laura: (pain sound) Fuck. Ah, shit. Okay, I'm going to hit the big hulking thing again.
Matt: I realized he had disadvantage, but I rolled another 18, so it's fine.
Laura: Oh, okay, well, yeah. I'm going to do the same thing with the big hulking guy.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 25 to hit.
Matt: 25 hits.
Laura: Oh, I didn't add plus ten to the previous one!
Matt: Because of the sharpshooter, all right. 39 last time. So go ahead and take a swing at it.
Laura: Thanks! 14.
Matt: You're up next, Keyleth.
Laura: 14 plus six is 20.
Sam: Figure out how you're going to ruin Darin's life more.
Marisha: I know. That's my one goal in life. I'm a big old homewrecker.
Laura: I think that's just 32 because I don't get sneak attack again.
Matt: All right. So the second arrow slams into him. It's still holding firm. It's taking the hits and you see parts of its body are starting to spill black liquid out of the wounds and (growls) its red eyes still beaming out from behind the metal mask in front of its face. Its arm swings back and tears some of the ceiling beams out with it. It's looking pretty rickety right now. So that ends your turn?
Laura: I guess so.
Marisha: Is it in a fireproof safe? No? Okay!
Matt: Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: All right. So I have this big asshole in front of me, yeah? The house is catching on fire, right? Yeah. Nope, she'd still be really upset and really angry. So continuing what I was saying before, she's gonna rage a little bit more and go into her fire elemental self.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Unable to contain her frustration--
Taliesin: This is a good plan.
Matt: You technically entered the space of the guy who's on the ground, becoming a fire elemental, which lights him on fire. (screams)
Marisha: Even more upset. I'm gonna move right in the space of this guy.
Matt: (whoosh) So occupying his space from this side, we'll say. She can catch you guys on fire.
Laura: But she doesn't have to.
Matt: I'll double-check that real fast.
Marisha: I mean, I'm magical.
Taliesin: Sparkle fire.
Marisha: I sparkle fire.
Liam: Also, we can take it.
Taliesin: Yeah, it's fire.
Matt: You know what? It can move through a space as narrow as one inch wide, so I'll say yes, you can maneuver through. Only if you want to, can you set things on fire.
Marisha: I'm going to go into this guy's space, engulf in flames, and do my multi-attack, two slam touch attacks.
Matt: Go for it. He is now in flames.
Marisha: That's cocked. Ooh, that's good, that's good. 21.
Matt: 21, yeah.
Marisha: And 16.
Matt: 16 just misses.
Marisha: Fucking balls. Okay. No, plus six to 11. That's 17.
Matt: That hits. That's what you needed.
Marisha: So both of those hit. 2d6 plus three. First one is eight. Plus ten. 18 fire damage.
Matt: He's looking pretty hurt. As you slam him with both of your flaming hands and claw across his body, where the flame hits, you see it (hissing) singes through the flesh and drags charred remains of where the muscle once was where you dragged your claws through. The body's starting to shake as it's holding its form together.
Marisha: That's all I've got, I think. That's it.
Sam: No. You have action, action, action, action, action. (laughter)
Marisha: Bonus action.
Taliesin: Bonus action.
Laura: Hasted action.
Liam: Send all your complaints to Mike Mearls and Chris Perkins at Wizards of the Coast.
Sam: Matt, not to be a dick, but has anyone stepped on the trap on the floor?
Matt: Actually, you know what, Vax would have avoided it. Because Vax is in the spot where it was, but Vax knew where it was, so Vax would have probably gone over it.
Sam: So cool. You're doing the little splits over it.
Liam: Splitsing. Van Damme-ing it.
Matt: Wait, you wouldn't have, because when you threw the dagger--
Liam: Let's do it.
Matt: It's not a big deal. Thank you for pointing that out.
Sam: But your boots are gone.
Liam: She stole them again? How did you do it?
Matt: You guys glance upward as you hear a (deep swoosh) and up above you in the hole in the ceiling where there once was nothing but air, you see hovering above you a giant beholder just appear. (guttural moan) All of its eyestalks curling around it.
Marisha: What do you mean, it's not a big deal? That's the part that I'm confused about!
Matt: Thank you for that. So that finishes your turn, Keyleth. Pike's turn. Pike sees this--
Liam: If we're retconning that in, I'm retconning (blows raspberry) when I see it.
Darin: Don't get Gargamel angry.
Marisha: Does that mean that Keyleth would have seen the beholder beforehand? You know what, don't worry about it.
Matt: No. You were so angry-- it's in the hole above. You don't quite see where that hole was at the moment, you backed away.
Marisha: Man, so much blind rage.
Matt: So much blind rage. Look guys, that's what we're doing. So anyway, Pike does actually make an insight check, and says, "It's not real. Don't worry about it!"
Laura: Thanks, Pike.
Matt: Fixed. (laughter)
Laura: It's not a big deal, you guys.
Matt: Pike, however, is going to go ahead and make another Guiding Bolt at the large guy there. That's going to be a 20. That hits. That's going to be 4d6. 14 points of radiant damage, which will do it. So you watch as Pike blasts it in the face with the Guiding Bolt. As it hits, the mask gets thrown off, and where the head was beneath it, you see this empty black void with two red burning coals for eyes that blink out as soon as the mask is removed, and the whole body crumples to the ground and turns into a horrible, thick, black-purple ichor.
Laura: I'm going to have nightmares about that.
Sam: For sure.
Matt: The beholder is still upstairs, staying in place going (hoarse screaming). (laughter)
Matt: Yeah, it's that kind of thing.
Taliesin: Brilliant.
Matt: That ends Pike's turn. They're both dead. That brings us back. Percival, it's your turn. There's the one guy on the ground there. One's laughing. We'll say for the purposes of this, for the time, most everything there is not much of a threat at this point. So systematically, the guy on the ground who's hidden by the tree, you can just--
Taliesin: I'm ignoring him. I'm not even gonna deal. I'm just hopping in the window. I'm going to grab my little guy there. I'm going to bring him out to the balcony, and I'm going to unceremoniously toss him out of the house.
Sam: Defenestrated!
Matt: You throw him (thud). He lands.
Taliesin: And then I'm going to jump and I'm going to crawl down the rest of my way and join him outside the house. And try and jump around the fire, dragging him away from the fire.
Matt: Make an athletics check. Sorry, acrobatics check.
Taliesin: Acrobatics? Bless you for an acrobatics check. I'm rerolling that.
Matt: No, it's not a saving throw. You can't do that.
Taliesin: It's not a saving throw. Oh well, that's fine. That's a 16.
Matt: I'll say for the purposes of this--
Taliesin: I had the Spider Climb boots.
Matt: Right, I know. But Spider Climb boots only helps you if you keep on the surface. So as you leap, you manage to land on your feet, but the flames do catch you a bit, so you take six points of fire damage as you start to burn. For the purposes of time on this one, the guy who's currently under the log just burns to death there under the log. Pinned, he's trying to reach for his crossbow, but he's only fired the one bolt that was loaded in it. The guy on the ground is still laughing as you approach him.
Darin: Are there any rocks about?
Matt: Yeah, there's quite a few heavier rocks on the ground.
Darin: Well, I look at him, and I say, "It was a prison, but it was my prison." And I use the Telekinesis ring to lift a rock and drop it on his head.
Matt: (splat) A horrible sickening crack sound. It slams into the head. You lift it up. The laughing has stopped, but he's still moving and you can see the face is broken. The nose is smashed to the side and it's just blood. He's starting to try and get back up.
Darin: Well, tell them that Ethred Brokenbranch sends his regards.
Matt: Do you let him get up?
Darin: Yes.
Matt: He gets up. (grunting)
Sam: I'll Lightning Bolt him as he runs away.
Matt: Okay, we'll say for the purposes of this, he runs off in the distance (footsteps, yelp) and falls to the ground, no longer moving.
Travis: Can I kill the guy on the floor? Can he be mine, please? Can I please smash him? The guy that's lying on the floor in the house, please?
Taliesin: Just sit on him.
Travis: I haven't Gallaghered anybody in a while.
Matt: He's on the ground on fire now, going (frantic gasps) patting out the fire.
Laura: Oh, Grog, put him out!
Matt: He spends his action putting the fire out now, and is like, (frantic gasps).
Marisha: Keyleth takes a few steps back and motions as a fire elemental...
Travis: I skip on in and (gibberish yell).
Matt: He's like, (scream, impact). Just smashed on the ground. Red watermelon.
Laura: Fire's out, I'm assuming.
Marisha: I drop my fire form, turn, see my anger, destruction, get immediately guilty, and then do a Tidal Wave to quell the flames.
Matt: The building is standing, mostly. The whole front of it is blackened. The flames are gone. Most of the interior is destroyed. You have two giant holes in the back. Most of the upper ceiling is ruined. The house is in shambles.
Laura: What about the books?
Matt: A lot of them have been destroyed. Some of the ones on the back wall have been burned. Some of them have been burned by people in flames or made of flame or general black ichor that spilled out. The house is pretty wrecked.
Laura: Can I go over to them and see if I can find some books I think Percy would like?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Sam: I'm running over to see that staff with an eye in it.
Laura: 27.
Matt: 27? Okay. You start glancing through. You find some history books. You find some that relate to local history. You see some books that relate to various types of creatures; some animals and beasts. Many that are encyclopedias of various rivers and it's scattered everywhere. It's just universal knowledge of pretty much anything he can get his hands on. So some of it seems less useful than others but you hand-pick a few out that you think Percy would like.
Travis: I don't mean to ask the obvious question, but how did he know we were here?
Taliesin: No, that's not an obvious question. I have no idea.
Marisha: They have multiple eyes.
Laura: But how? Was he watching us? Is he scrying on us?
Taliesin: Must have.
Laura: Oh, he's fucking scrying on us.
Taliesin: Maybe he can feel you the way you can feel him.
Matt: You get the sense that's not how this works.
Taliesin: Yeah. I don't know.
Marisha: He had another eye, right?
Sam: Does that thing have an eye in it?
Matt: The staff you see? It's a carved eye. It's made of wood and paint. It's ornamental. It's mainly used as a focus, technically acts as a plus-one staff.
Travis: Sprigg. You said this place was a prison. Did you mean that?
Darin: Of course I meant it, boy. I've been there for years.
Travis: Could you leave? If you wanted.
Darin: Of course I can. The prison was more up here than in there.
Travis: Oh. Sorry about the prison, then.
Darin: Why would you be sorry? I asked you for power and redemption. Don't you feel you gave me that? We lived, child. We all lived.
Travis: Yep. Yes. That is indeed what I was hoping for.
Laura: I lean out the window. Hey, Sprigg!
Darin: Hello!
Laura: Hi.
Darin: Hi! How are you? I have some arrows in me at the moment. You like arrows, don't you?
Laura: I do. Come in here, I'll take them off your hands.
Darin: Okay. Question  if you do that, I'd probably die again.
Laura: I'll cure you, darling. Don't worry.
Darin: She called me darling.
Sam: She's the cutest.
Darin: (growls) I go in. (laughter)
Matt: You walk into your destroyed abode, managing to sidestep all the bear traps along the way. You've walked the path many times and you know it and I'm actually surprised none of you walked into any of them. You knew where most of them were, but none of you wandered out far enough into the open to do that. They're all inside. You can see your giant friend, of course, that you were talking to as you walked in is twice the size he was earlier. Previously where you had to hunch, you're now having to almost belly crawl inside the house.
Travis: But why? There's no separation between the first and the second floor.
Matt: So if you stand in that space, you're fine.
Travis: I'm in my space.
Taliesin: I'm going to prop our idiot up in the window so I can go in and keep an eye on him even while I'm inside.
Sam: We have a prisoner?
Taliesin: Yeah. I kept one.
Laura: But he's one of those creepy ghouls that probably doesn't speak.
Matt: And in the last minute or so has not been able to break free but is still trying.
Taliesin: He automatically fails until 24 hours has elapsed.
Matt: After the first failed save?
Taliesin: Any further attempts by the creature automatically fail until 24 hours have elapsed. He ain't going nowhere. It's mean, man.
Laura: Me and Pike can heal him as I take the arrows out.
Matt: Okay.
Darin: At last you've seen the point of me, eh?
Laura: (sarcastic laugh) Sprigg, anything valuable in here that you want to save before we get you out of here?
Darin: Would like my organs! Oh, I would like to save those.
Laura: Yes.
Darin: All right. No. There's nothing.
Laura: No keys to Ioun? You know where she is?
Darin: I might. I hope I do. I hope that I can give you the answers you seek.
Laura: I hope so, too. I cast Cure Wounds.
Matt: Pike casts Cure Wounds on you, as well, and you heal 18.
Darin: Do I know her name yet?
Matt: No, you do not.
Darin: Cleric.
Matt: "Pike."
Darin: Yes. Ethred. Or Sprigg. Whichever you like. You can call me Sprigg. Can you help me pray to Ioun? We need answers, and I think together we might find them.
Matt: "I can certainly try. Do you have any items of her iconography?"
Darin: Do I?
Matt: Yeah, actually. You just reach over and find one of the undamaged books.
Laura: You healed 19, by the way.
Darin: Thank you. Use this and you talk to her where I can't. At least, not yet.
Matt: "I don't know if I can talk to her. I'm not... But I can help you pray. I don't know if it'll be enough."
Darin: Let's give it a go. There's a first time for everything.
Matt: "Grog!"
Travis: Yeah?
Matt: "Can you help me clear some of the floor, please?"
Travis: Not a problem! (grunting) Keyleth, catch!
Marisha: Ah! Ow! (laughter)
Sam: Floorboards! In her face!
Travis: I thought you were on fire. I'm really sorry.
Matt: Pike takes you over to the center of the room and tells you. "Kneel with me. Now take this book and close your eyes and... apologize."
Darin: For what?
Matt: "For everything you said about Ioun."
Darin: (grumbles) All right. Well, look the other way. Find some things that are of value.
Travis: (whistles)
Laura: Trinket sits down next to him and stares, but I'll turn around.
Darin: All right. I don't know if you're listening, Ioun. It's been many years since I've actually spoken to a god. I'd like to express my deepest sorrow. You see, this home... didn't mean as much to me as life. And I think these people gave that to me. If you could give us... If you could give me anything, any little hint, it would be greatly appreciated and I would be a warrior in your name forevermore. Please. Was that okay, bear?
Matt: (huffs, licking) Licks the side of your face.
Darin: No, I'm not crying. You're crying, bear.
Matt: You sit there in silence with your eyes closed, concentrating, holding the book before you. Doesn't seem to be an answer. Just silence in the darkness. Nothing. Everyone wants to look at him-- still turned away?
Marisha: Keyleth is definitely staring, but pretending not to stare.
Taliesin: I'm watching through the book.
Laura: I'm leaning against the wall and staring at him now.
Matt: Nothing. Nothing responds. As you have your eyes closed, you hear this soft chuckle in the far corner of the room. (cackles) "Really? Praying, are you?"
Darin: Yes. Can you help?
Matt: "Do I look the kind of guy that would help?"
Darin: Yes. I've known you for 19 years and I think anybody's capable of anything, so why don't you do something unexpected?
Matt: "I think you're right. It's no longer your prison. It's not mine, either."
Darin: That's true.
Matt: (flapping) Flies out the window.
Taliesin: Oh shit.
Darin: Kraghammer has another performer, and not a very good one.
Matt: While you've been talking, by the way, and the silence has been sad. Taking in the slight emotional cut that not getting a response and putting yourself on that limb means nothing. The rest of you notice his torso is glowing bright blue.
Marisha: What? Is it really?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Your stomach is glowing.
Darin: Growing? What? I didn't eat anything. How could my stomach be growing?
Sam: You're blue balling.
Darin: What?
Sam: (whispering) Look down.
Matt: Pike looks at you and takes your hands and opens your arms and motions to your chest. And the book in your hand, you pull aside. You glance down and you can see, there's this soft, bluish glow that's emanating from your torso. Strange.
Darin: You see? I didn't have to believe in Ioun. I've found my religion. (chuckling) I'm Bluish! (laughter)
Travis: Aw, man!
Darin: It didn't happen!
Matt: No, it did. That's canon.
Darin: Wait a second, gentlemen. We'll restart for just a second. It'll be fine. That little imp is gone. So apparently, the key... is me.
Laura: Is you? It is you.
Sam: Is in you or is you?
Marisha: It is him. I've known it from the minute that I laid eyes upon him. It's him.
Travis: You did? You knew that the moment you saw him?
Marisha: No, I mean I had a hunch, I had a feeling, deep down inside. I can't say it. If I say it out loud and then if it's not true then I'm an asshole.
Liam: To be fair, we've only been here 12 minutes.
Darin: Yes. House gone. The imp gone. Burny, burny. Sad, sad. Pray, nothing happened. Now I'm blue. That's a day for you, isn't it?
Laura: So do you glow brighter the closer we get? What's the deal here?
Darin: I've never glowed before, child.
Laura: I think it's glown.
Darin: I've never glowned.
Sam: If you're the key, where's the lock? Where do we take you?
Darin: Well, I have been gone for many, many years, so English may have changed. To be fair. To be fair. I don't know. This is all new to me. I would have thought it would be in one of those tomes.
Taliesin: I'm going to pick up the book that he was holding when he was praying. I'm going to just try and read it.
Matt: Okay. You glance through it. The book is a simple book, talking about the construction of barricades and it looks like it was less the contents of the book and more just the image of the book itself.
Taliesin: I'm going to hand him the book again and see if maybe there's focus to be found. Maybe this is--
Matt: Okay. Make a perception check.
Taliesin: Oh, lord. Ooh. Let's call that a 28.
Matt: When you took the book from him and handed him another book, there was a very faint vibration to his body as you pulled it from him and gave it back to him. Which you haven't noticed, but there's a physical vibration to him.
Taliesin: If it's all-- with your permission, I'm going to take his hands.
Matt: Okay. You feel them, and you feel this very faint vibration to his body.
Marisha: Percy.
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: Continue holding his hands. I pull out the Tome of Quick Movement. Hold. Hold while I find the paper. Hold.
Laura: What if he's a tuning fork?
Marisha: (shushes)
Darin: That's very rude.
Marisha: Where is it? I have a lot of things.
Sam: Divining.
Darin: Oh yes. A divining rod. A rod to the divine. Perhaps I am a divining rod.
Laura: That's what I mean.
Darin: Well said, child!
Marisha: I pull out the fork we that we got to get to Elysium. Is it similar?
Matt: When you pull out the fork and you hold it, you recall that whenever you cast the spell Plane Shift, there was a faint vibration to the specific fork when you cast the spell.
Sam: He's the tuning fork.
Taliesin: He's the tuning fork.
Marisha: Oh no.
Laura: What, no? This is good!
Marisha: No, it is good. It's good, it's just... Oh, Sprigg. No, it's fine. It's good. I don't know. Everything in my life seems to have this impermanence factor about it. So I hope he's not something that can be used and discarded.
Darin: I haven't been used in 37 years.
Marisha: Sprigg.
Darin: It's all right. At least I wasn't discarded all that time.
Marisha: I'm sure it's fine, I just--
Darin: Look. Look at me. Just remember. Whatever happens, remember me. That's all that's important.
Liam: That's good advice.
Darin: That's all that we have. My friends are gone and I don't even remember their names. I don't remember Thetapax or Zephyr or... the guy with the nose. He was my favorite. (coughs and sniffles) Dusty in here, isn't it?
Marisha: Oh, Sprigg.
Darin: (sniffles and coughs) I remember. (softer) I remember. See? It's all up here. So whatever happens, keep me there. All right?
Marisha: I guess I have to start getting used to losing things.
Darin: Yes. Or you can be hidden away in a prison for 37 years. And that's not life, child. That's hiding. Don't hide.
Marisha: I've already built my own prison. They don't know. I'm already there.
Darin: You can break out. You can. It's hard. But you can do it. Just take the first step. And then you take another one. And then you take another one.
Marisha: And I grab his hand, and with that, I cast Plane Shift to wherever he is leading to go.
Matt: All right. The rest of you gathered hands for this?
Laura: I guess so.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Is there enough of us? Trinket, in the necklace. Quick!
Matt: Trinket. (roars) Into the necklace.
Darin: Wait. My invisible frog companion.
Sam: Is he real?
Darin: Yes. (laughter)
Matt: There is a sudden (sucking noise). A shuddering of power energy around you as you feel the vibration out of Sprigg's hand emanate throughout the entire loop you guys have created throughout your grasp. The familiar bright light flashes before you, and you feel your body being pulled through, at incredible speeds, through darkness. There. The familiar racing of the divine gate. (fast travel noise) As you pass through one of its many portholes. Then, adrift. By now you've-- the times you've passed through the gate, you've passed through it a handful of times since now. Adrift. Still holding hands, but the circle's beginning to turn into an oval. You can all glance around and see each other. Did you miss your destination? Did you overshoot? What's next? (whoosh) Another white flash. And suddenly you're at a destination. You glance around and you're standing within a small chamber. It resembles a decadent bathhouse but with no water nor occupants. It's empty. There are marble pillars stretching to a domed ceiling about 60 feet above you all. Silk-draped cloths drift and hang at odd angles throughout the ceiling. Glowing points of magical light latched within iron cages dangle at the edges of these pillars about 15 feet up that give the faint glow to an otherwise darkened room. There are walls on each side of this chamber, about 30 or 40 feet from you, and one arched hallway across from you that leads to the only other chamber you've seen.
Marisha: I immediately turn and look to see if Sprigg is still holding my hand.
Matt: Sprigg is still holding your hand.
Laura: See? All that fucking shit was for nothing! He's still alive!
Sam: Are you the same Sprigg as before?
Darin: I hope so. Let's ask my invisible frog companion. Well, I guess we'd better go find what we are looking for.
Marisha: Okay. Glad you're with us, Sprigg.
Darin: It's good to be alive.
Marisha: Yes, it is.
Darin: Remember that.
Marisha: Okay. I will.
Matt: As you guys walk forward towards the singular hallway, you go through the domed arch, and the hallway extends on. Featureless, smooth grey marble. Like a solid punch that seemed to have carved out whatever this material was. It extends for 100 feet. 150 feet. And even though there's very very faint light, and many of you can see through darkvision, there is a darkness about 60 feet from you that seems to consume what you can see. You can only see so far beyond that radius, and you're not quite sure where that oppressive shadow is coming from. The air is chilled, but not uncomfortably so. You can hear the distant sound of pinched winds whining through small spaces. A familiar sound from the many times you've spent underground, through caverns that had some openings that allowed air to streak through to the surface. A few steps more and suddenly the hallway opens into a second chamber. Into a library, if you could even call it that. Bookshelves that stretch upward for seemingly hundreds of feet, before flickering lights fell from your vision. You do not see where they stop. These columns of just tomes and cases and scrolls and parchments stacking as in tablets and any form of recorded information seem to just be infinite in front of you, to two sides of this road and upward. They seem to stretch in almost every direction, the walls to the side of you. You see columns ahead of you, and they tend to wind and curl like a labyrinth made of bookcases, to no end. It's very Escher-esque in how the further up you look, they tend to curve and shift and bend around each other. Your eyes, now attuned to the realms beyond mortality, you catch glimpses of shifting wind gathering books and turning pages. Spirits of the library, though sparse as they may be from this entry point, organizing. Reading and learning from whatever words are within. You begin to almost get vertigo, trying to contemplate the strange and overwhelming construction of such a wondrous place. An endless sea of stories. Spectral custodians keeping the tales of each other and the history of Exandria past, present, and binding the pages to tell what will eventually be the present, currently the future.
Taliesin: I've dreamed of this place.
Liam: Inside Matt's brain?
Taliesin: This is immortality. This is everything. (sighs, chuckles) I may never leave. I glide over to Vex and hold her close. This is stunning. My god, I think they may have actually forgotten all the idiot things I said yesterday.
Laura: Feels pretty good, doesn't it?
Taliesin: I think they've completely forgotten. I'm sorry. May have panicked.
Laura: I give him a kiss.
Taliesin: I'll be right back. I'm going to run towards one of those stacks, like a child.
Matt: Okay. You begin to take the first--
Taliesin: I'm doing a title run. I want to figure out the organizational system before I touch a book.
Matt: There are no words on any of the spines.
Taliesin: I pick one.
Matt: Okay. You pick.
Taliesin: All right. I pick it up. I look around to see if anybody has a problem. And I turn to the title page.
Matt: It's ironic you do this, because the book is in Celestial.
Taliesin: I read Celestial.
Matt: You do. It's ironic that you did that. (chuckles) Glancing through, it appears to be describing a birth. Describing a tunnel, then a light, then a cry.
Taliesin: I skip to the end. Last page.
Matt: It seems to be an older man, surrounded by his family--
Taliesin: I've got it. I put it down. I pick up another one.
Matt: You glance through this book.
Taliesin: First page.
Matt: Begins very similarly to the last one.
Taliesin: Last page.
Matt: This one actually ends with what appears to be a horseback riding accident.
Marisha: Oh god, they're souls.
Taliesin: 115 pages in.
Matt: 115 pages in you get to a page that seems to talk about the sorrow of a lost romance, and trying to deal, coping at a young adult age.
Taliesin: I put it back and I turn. They're made of people.
Laura: Wait, what? It's skin books?
Taliesin: It's people! And I'm going to find the most interesting spine and I'm going to turn to the first. Birth. Death.
Laura: I can't read that, dear.
Taliesin: Birth! Death! Sex. Birth, death, some disappointment. I am just gone. I'm running back and forth, finding whatever interesting spine I can. Are they all in Celestial?
Matt: They are currently. All the ones you've picked up are in Celestial.
Taliesin: Oh my god. Okay. This is great. All right. I'm eventually probably going to pass out from mild hyperventilation and have to sit down.
Laura: We should maybe find Ioun, don't you think?
Taliesin: If we must, yes. Just as an experiment, I'm going to think about Vesper and try and touch a book. I don't expect this to work, but I'm going to close my eyes and think about, and pick it up and flip through it.
Matt: Make a religion check.
Taliesin: Nope.
Matt: You grab a tome and pull it forth, and as you read through the story, it's an unfamiliar one.
Taliesin: There's a system. I will discover the system. I'm going to keep running around like a kid.
Matt: What are the rest of you guys doing while Percival is running around like a kid?
Travis: I'm not interested in the fucking books.
Marisha: Distracted by Percy, Keyleth just scans. Does anything in Primordial stick out?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: That's good. 29.
Matt: Glancing about, none of the spines have anything written on them, so you have to start pulling a few books out and opening them.
Marisha: I hold my hand over and pull.
Matt: You open it up. It's not in a language you understand.
Marisha: I put it back and get frustrated.
Taliesin: I've stopped. I'm good.
Liam: Watched her the whole time and quietly walk up behind and give her a hug from behind and don't say anything.
Sam: Are there any doors leading forward or back?
Matt: It's a labyrinth of bookshelves. There's a path forward between, two or three ahead of you, but then it comes to an end where it splits off in two directions. Like I said, they travel up infinitely, so you're not quite sure which way leads where.
Laura: Is Sprigg still glowing?
Matt: Sprigg is, actually-- There's a very faint blue glow in him that never really faded since your arrival.
Laura: I wonder if we could follow the glow. Warmer?
Marisha: Hey, Sprigg. Stand over there!
Darin: All right. I run to where she's pointing. Is there any change in the glow?
Matt: No noticeable change.
Marisha: Damn. Sprigg, stand over there!
Darin: I just was shot with a bunch of arrows, so give me a second. I run over there, stop halfway and go, ow, and then I continue. When I get there, any change in the glow?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Darin: Oh, it's a one.
Matt: No discernible difference.
Sam: You're inspired, if you want to use inspiration.
Matt: It's a natural one. It's an auto-fail.
Taliesin: Is there a card catalog?
Sam: Is there a central area info desk?
Matt: You can make an investigation check to begin to wander around and try to find your way.
Sam: Oh, that's a natural 20.
Matt: Scanlan seems to walk with purpose into one of the random rows.
Sam: I'm clutching my Ioun stone.
Matt: Okay. All right. Anyone else do anything?
Taliesin: He seems to have purpose. I'm giddily following behind.
Matt: Okay, Percy's following Scanlan.
Laura: I'm going to walk with Percy. Oh, and Trinket's out.
Matt: Okay. Trinket (bear grunt) looks confused and starts looking up.
Laura: I know. I know, dear.
Matt: Falls onto his back.
Sam: Are Vex and Percy walking with me?
Matt: Yes, they are.
Sam: I'm going to whip out my flute and I start going, (wedding march).
Taliesin: Oh. He may have heard.
Laura: He heard?
Taliesin: I thought you were going to die! I may have panicked.
Laura: Wait.
Taliesin: We were asked to plead for your life, and I may have panicked.
Laura: Who did you tell? Percival, who did you tell?
Sam: Look at your shirt.
Laura: What? (screams) No!
Taliesin: I panicked!
Laura: Percy!
Taliesin: I panicked! There was a giant glowing sun, and I may have panicked. Well, I was a bit vague, but I was--
Laura: A bit vague? Scanlan, what did he say?
Sam: Well.
Taliesin: Oh no.
Sam: First comes love. Then comes marriage.
Taliesin: I may have hinted that we might have eloped. May have hinted.
Sam: Wait, you're married?
Taliesin: I may have hinted.
Sam: Wait, no, you said you were betrothed to be married? Wait, you're married? Oh, wow, you just spilled it!
Taliesin: Silence! Cone of Silence!
Sam: They're married!
Matt: You try and yell, and it's making no sound. It is just absolute quiet. What are the rest of you guys doing?
Darin: I run in the corner and see if I glow again.
Liam: Keyleth and Vax heard the (wedding march), so we had a very different silent scene over in our spot.
Marisha: Yeah, Keyleth was quietly sobbing in Vax's arms and then heard (wedding march) and went (angry roar).
Laura: Why is that bad? Why was that angry?
Liam: Because we don't get that.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: Grog?
Sam: So you're going to ruin everyone else's joy. You're one of those couples.
Liam: Thank you, vacation Scanlan.
Marisha: Worst double date sangria partners ever.
Taliesin: He's back, ladies and gentlemen. He's back and taking no prisoners.
Sam: Are you guys going on vacation? We got a divorce.
Liam: It's the Debbie Downer SNL sketch.
Matt: Grog, what are you doing?
Travis: I'm as uncomfortable as I can possibly be. This is the worst-case scenario of my entire life. I'm not moving and hoping this is all over soon.
Taliesin: I love that.
Travis: It's just endless books, beyond what you can see! Are there chairs?
Laura: I feel like Pike would've comforted him.
Matt: Yeah, Pike comes over.
Travis: There are chairs?
Matt: No, there aren't. She goes, "Do you want to go with everyone else, Grog?"
Travis: I don't know. Do you?
Matt: "It's okay, yeah! They're walking."
Travis: I want to leave. Fast.
Matt: "The faster we follow them, then the faster we can go."
Travis: Okay. Let's go.
Matt: "I bet you could read some of these books."
Travis: I bet not. These are really tall books.
Matt: "Come on." She grabs your hand and begins tugging you behind her. What are you guys doing?
Marisha: Me and him?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: Leaning into each other.
Matt: Okay. So you guys stay there.
Darin: I'm trying to see if I'm glowing anywhere.
Matt: You run around for a good minute and a half and you're not seeing any sort of change.
Darin: Nothing?
Matt: No.
Darin: Can I go forward into the bookcases and look right and left to see where they lead?
Matt: Okay, yeah. You turn around the corner and see them disappear around the edge.
Darin: I'll continue.
Matt: Okay. So you follow them. As you guys are having this silent argument, Sprigg catches up to you, but you hear nothing, Sprigg, as they're all going...
Taliesin: I just turned it off. I got everyone to agree.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Hi. How's it going?
Darin: Glowing. You are, too! What's going on with that? Yeah, you seem to be blushing.
Laura: It's so hot in here. It's very hot in here.
Matt: Pike and Grog catch up around the corner.
Travis: What did you find? The way out? Exit?
Sam: Seems like it could be this way. We'll have to band together and go forward.
Travis: Really?
Sam: Yes.
Taliesin: Where did you get the sunglasses from?
Sam: It's glowing in here.
Matt: The Ioun stone actually is giving a faint glow similar to the glow that you see emanating from Sprigg's torso.
Sam: Is it glowing any more than--
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: Oh, okay. That's an eight. Maybe 11, I don't know. Do I add Jack of All Trades?
Matt: You do, yeah. If you're not--
Sam: I really want to know. I will inspire myself, and I'll add a d12. That makes it 16.
Matt: Okay. You start getting the sense, the further you walk, both your stone and Sprigg are beginning to emanate a slightly stronger glow, and so you guys begin to realize that this could be used as a path to something. You're not quite sure.
Sam: Let's keep going.
Matt: Okay. So everyone's going behind.
Liam: Imagination clarification, because a Silence effect went off there. Did Vax and Keyleth hear, "You're married?" Or was that all covered by Silence?
Matt: No, he crushed that in Silence.
Liam: So we heard the song, but that's it. Good to know.
Matt: Everyone else has gone ahead and vanished into the library. You guys are staying?
Liam: Noticing that we're totally alone, silently tug Keyleth down after them.
Taliesin: I felt that honesty was important at that moment.
Laura: No, it very much is. I'm very glad. I'm just surprised he didn't say anything. I spoke with him.
Sam: He was acting nobly. I won't tell anyone if you don't want me to.
Taliesin: We had to tell them eventually.
Matt: As you're following the stone, you hear some footfalls as Vax and Keyleth catch up to you guys.
Marisha: We already know. It's fine.
Liam: You're engaged. You don't have to--
Taliesin: Well.
Laura: I'm sorry I didn't tell you about that. Engagement. But you know.
Marisha: You fucking liars. You fucking liars! Just tell us! We know!
Laura: We got married.
Taliesin: We may have gotten married.
Marisha: Yeah. (sarcastically) Oh, surprise!
Taliesin: It was going to be--
Laura: (weakly) Celebration!
Taliesin: We didn't want to make it a thing. We wanted it to just be--
Sam: I think it's great.
Laura: Thank you, Scanlan.
Sam: It's wonderful when two people can fall in love and have each other forever and ever. That's nice. No, I mean it! You guys are great. You're super cute together. You'll make Whitestone-- You'll be celebrities there.
Travis: Do we have to get you gifts?
Sam: No, they eloped, so we're clear.
Taliesin: Very specifically, no. This place.
Marisha: Yeah, it's amazing. And Keyleth lights up her flame hands as she walks off in a fury.
Taliesin: Do you not know what this place means? Am I the only one who understands what this place means?
Travis: I would love to know.
Taliesin: It all matters!
Laura: None of us have forgotten.
Taliesin: No, I mean, really! It all matters! So much, and it's not going to go away! Nothing goes away!
Marisha: No, it only gets filed away in some library where no one else can experience it except for, what, one, maybe two people ever.
Taliesin: One and two people are all that it takes to experience something!
Matt: An echoing voice billows out from the right side of your troupe. A creaky, warm, matronly voice that surrounds and almost welcomes you with the intonation of a grandmother. It says, "Nothing is forever, Percival." You glance off to the right, and you can see there's a break in the bookcase. To your right, you see the shelves have stopped ahead in this direction to reveal a circular common area within the library, where the ground domes downward into an 80-foot-wide concave pit of cushions and tables, all standing at odd angles alongside this pit, but never sliding. Gravity seems to shift depending on where the dome stands. These tables hold teacups and writing implements and various other décor, and things that involve binding and writing. None of them slipping, all of them affixed to the table as the dome slowly comes to a central rest. Long, spiraling streams of silver, blue, and gray silk descend from the supposed ceiling that is beyond your sight, and they come down like drifting silks that push past as you enter the area. Sitting 40 feet from you in the center of the dome, no larger than a normal person, is an older woman with long, wavy silver hair. Her olive skin is somewhat weathered and wrinkled around her almond eyes, but the warmth of her smile, and her vibrant purple irises put you at ease immediately. Her blue and white robes tumble out from her form in tendrils of parchment that snake through the pillows like roots. She smiles as you turn and see her. "I felt that you would find me." And that's where we'll end tonight's session.
Sam: Wow, Matt. Wow, Darin!
Liam: Can everybody watching still at home give a round of applause for Darin?
Matt: Seriously. If you're available, you may want to, if you can, come and join us for the first half maybe. Not next week, but the week after Comic Con, if you're interested. Because I want to roleplay out you meeting Ioun.
Darin: It would be an honor. You know how important this is to me.
Matt: Great. I'll look forward to having you back in a couple weeks, then.
Darin: And I will see you next weekend, as well!
Matt: Yes, indeed. Oh, Comic Con. Guys, thank you so much. Great game, well done. Breaking stuff, apparently. Once again, we have no episode next week because we'll be at Comic Con, but we have our panel on Saturday for Critical Role. Love you guys, hope you have a wonderful night, and is it Thursday yet? Good night! [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons and can't listen to a count off screen when we're going to go live. But I appreciate the effort guys.
Liam: Nobody could hear me say, "Scaramucci, I fucked up."
Matt: I did. Don't do that. His life's hard enough right now. All right. Anyway, bringing this back in, thank you for joining us. We'll pick up here in a minute for the actual story, but first we have some quick announcements. No, not Siri. Announcements. Come on. She's all right. First and foremost, tonight's episode is sponsored by our friends at Puzzle Quest. Magic: the Gathering. Samuel, you wanna talk about this?
Sam: Hi, everyone. It's me, Sam Riegel. Tonight, we're pleased to be sponsored by Magic: the Gathering - Puzzle Quest, which you can find at bit.ly/magicrole. Guys, the hour of devastation is at hand in Magic: the Gathering - Puzzle Quest. Check out new card abilities like Eternalize and the latest Planeswalker to arrive: Elspeth, the Sun's champion! Not second or third place; the Sun's champion! Jump into daily live events where you can compete alongside your coalition for top placement or head over-- I don't know any of these words. (laughter)
Sam: Or for top placement or head over to the all new training grounds to perfect your deck! With over 150 new cards, you can craft an all new strategy to dominate the leaderboards! Magic: the Gathering - Puzzle Quest: 50% Magic, 50% match three RPG, 100% Puzzle Quest! Download on the App Store or Google Play. Okay. So typically, when Puzzle Quest is our sponsor I do a little quiz with Taliesin. Today I'm going to throw it to Liam O'Brien, just to mix it up. The theme of tonight's quiz is: Is this a Magic: the Gathering card or a Kama Sutra position? (laughter)
Sam: Black Lotus.
Liam: That is Kama Sutra.
Sam: That is Magic  the Gathering.
Marisha: A classic! That is the world's most famous Magic: the Gathering card!
Sam: Reverse cowgirl.
Liam: Magic  the Gathering.
Matt: Strangely, yeah. White deck.
Sam: She Wolf.
Liam: She Wolf is Magic  the Gathering.
Sam: No, that's--
Liam: God damn it! (laughter)
Sam: Lone Wolf.
Liam: That's Magic  the Gathering. I'm just doing B on every question.
Sam: Illicit Auction.
Liam: That's Magic  the Gathering.
Sam: You're correct! The Angry Pirate.
Liam: That's a Sam Riegel original.
Sam: That's a Kama Sutra. Correct, Liam O'Brien. Maybe two more. Two more. The Curled Angel.
Liam: That's so close to another phrase. Let's call that the Kama Sutra.
Sam: Correct! The Mud Hole.
Liam: (high voice) Magic  the Gathering?
Sam: Correct! (cheering)
Sam: The last one, last one  Excavation.
Liam: Ew!
Sam: It's both. (laughter)
Sam: Marvel Puzzle Quest! No! Magic  the Gathering - Puzzle Quest
Matt: Yay, Puzzle Quest! This time Magic. Well done, Sam. Well done, Liam!
Travis: I was educated.
Matt: All right, moving on. Laura, we had some updates you said as far as merch goes?
Laura: Merchandise!
Travis: She's playing with her giant trash bag of dice.
Laura: I just finished organizing it, you guys. Okay. I wanted to give you guys some updates on some merch items. Those amazing posters? They will be sent out in a week. I think. Yes. They will be sent out in a week, because they're in the warehouse now, ready to get shipped. I've gotten a lot of messages asking where are the aprons? And the reason that they're not shipped yet is because we ended up selling so many that the manufacturer didn't have enough cloth to make the aprons, so then there was a backlog of that. So they're done, and they're about to get to the warehouse so you'll be getting your aprons in a couple weeks, and then we'll start getting them, so that's solid. Also, we have these awesome necklaces. Also, some other stuff.
Sam: Nice and vague.
Matt: Things are there. (laughs) Thank you, Laura. Let's see, next up. GenCon live. We are at the tail end of any available tickets for the show. So if you haven't got one yet and you're still planning to be around or near Indianapolis for GenCon and want to come see, get it quickly. We're about to close that out. Looking forward to seeing everyone there who's coming, it's going to be fun and depending on the next couple episodes, I'm real curious to where it ends up when we get to GenCon.
Laura: So it's going to be a canon episode?
Matt: Oh, it's a canon episode. It's going to be the next episode.
Laura: What if we all die at the live show?
Sam: If one of us dies tonight, do we not go to GenCon?
Travis: Yeah, pretty much.
Matt: Well, we'll put you in the front row. (groaning)
Travis: If you die, we will lower you from above like an angel on a fly reel.
Matt: On the Peter Pan wire setup?
Travis: With some asshole swinging you from side to side.
Matt: Just sending you across the audience.
Travis: (yelling) I want to get down, I can't feel my legs!
Matt: Make an acrobatics check!
Liam: It's going to be so fucking great.
Matt: So yes. Look forward to that.
Laura: I like how we all assumed it was going to be Sam that was dead and flying above the audience.
Matt: All right. So also, the Critical Role podcast. We have up to episode 30 now available. Next batch went up, so those of you who are coming on the podcast audio version of our crazy story, those episodes 21 to 30 are available for you now. Talks Machina, once again on Tuesdays. We'll have a discussion about this episode next week and on Tuesday at 7:00pm Pacific, with our wonderful host Brian Foster on Twitch and Alpha.
Liam: Is next week the one that they're off, though?
Matt: Are they off next week?
Liam: I think they're taking a week off, no? The week after?
Marisha: Both? Both. The week after Gencon we will be streaming the panel that we did at GenCon. I feel like Brian is going to be in New York for Ashley's birthday right now. He flew out today.
Matt: So not next Tuesday, but the Tuesday after.
Laura: Wait, no! I thought he'll be back by then. No?
Liam: He'll chime in on Twitter.
Matt: Follow Talks Machina on Twitter for updates about what's happening next episode.
Travis: We planned this out way in advance.
Matt: Last couple things  Sagas of Sundry. The final episode of Dread is now up on Alpha, and we'll see the finale of that crazy, crazy ride.
Travis: It's so good. It's scurry.
Marisha: We've got our first Sagas of Sundry tattoo! It's beautiful and gorgeous. I love it. It's amazing.
Travis: I watch the show with the lights on 'cause it creeps me out.
Matt: Good. We didn't have that option. And also the new episode of CelebriDND is up as well, where I got to dungeon master wonderful John Bradley who you may know as Sam Tarley on Game of Thrones. Also, had a wonderful guest Laura and Liam joined us for that. It was a lot of fun, so check it out. I believe our last announcement today is the birthday of one fabulous goliath barbarian.
Travis: Once a year, y'all. Once a year.
Matt: Travis Willingham, happy birthday, buddy.
Laura: Happy birthday, bb!
Travis: I can't die today, right?
Sam: Where's the cake?
Travis: It's in my stomach.
Laura: There's no cake, y'all.
Sam: But where's the cake?
Travis: I mean, that was awesome.
Marisha: I have a little cake eraser. Do you want the cake eraser for the game? Hang on. Where is it? Where did I put it? Happy birthday!
Travis: It's a little Pike cake!
Matt: And on that, enjoy your cake. And let's bring us into tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: And welcome back.
Travis: We didn't say anything.
Matt: No, you didn't. I was waiting and there was absolute silence. Wow. This is what it's like to have respect. (laughter)
Marisha: 107 episodes later.
Matt: That's all it took. And it's the last time it'll ever happen.
Liam: Lulling you into a false sense of security.
Matt: So, anyway, last we left off, Vox Machina, in facing the terrible threat of Vecna returned to physical form, sent you all through this conflict to seek audiences with a number of the deities of Exandria. After getting blessings and fragments of the essence of three of the gods, you discovered that Vecna had completed the Ritual of Seeding and ascended into godhood. However, discussing with Ioun, the Knowing Mistress, it will take a little bit of time for him to both understand the extent of his power, to claim his domains, and expand beyond his current condensed avatar form, so time is of the essence. Not to mention that in order to claim the full strength, there needs to be a showing of power and faith to gather attention and faith from the masses. So with that information, you also imbued upon Grog the ability to blacksmith and Percival the knowledge of the construct of these Divine Trammels, things that could possibly be used to seal and have been used previously to seal a god as killing them is a very difficult and dangerous thing. Retrieving this information, you discovered that the place where these can be crafted is called the Core Anvil. Once belonging to the All-Father, the deity of construction, design and craftsmanship, it resides beneath an underwater volcano known as Scaldseat, off the shore of a city called Shorecomb in Issylra. You also had a fantastic little run-in with Vecna, recently, taunting you all. Last we left off, you had found yourself in Vasselheim, went to the Trial Forge to speak with Earthbreaker Groon, discovered what would be required to attempt to make contact with Kord, and you made communion with the Raven Queen, and in declaring your complete faith in her she offered a piece of her essence to give you the third seed with which to make a third Divine Trammel, and with you all falling asleep within Scanlan's Magnificent Mansion, you cast True Polymorph on yourself to take the form of a planetar and did whatever you did in that form as you all went to sleep that evening.
Liam: Except that while he was checking out his junk in the mirror-- heavenly junk-- I shut the door behind Keyleth and I. I don't think we should go another couple of days in silence.
Marisha: Has it been days?
Liam: Just barely.
Marisha: Feels like an eternity.
Liam: I know that you are angry, and I am just-- I'm sorry.
Marisha: I was angry. I was very angry, and maybe if we had this conversation yesterday, even, I might be yelling that to your face right now. But it's hard to be angry at bravery and selflessness. I mean, we've always had the problem of you having one too many ladies in your life, right? (laughs) It's hard to compete with a god.
Liam: I've done a lot of stupid things in my life, and I've never had any regrets, really. I do know the chance you took on me, and I've confirmed your worst fears, and then some.
Marisha: It's not your fault.
Liam: Regardless, I am sorry, and I regret that I'm not outright dead already and that you have to stare at this walking pantomime of a life in front of you, but Kiki, I'm grateful for the time I have left to look on you, and I am grateful to fight for your future. And I'm grateful for that chance you took on me.
Marisha: I wouldn't take it back. You taught me how to take chances. (laughs) Can I ask you a question? What exactly was the deal that you made with the Raven Queen? Was it when we slew Vecna, or defeated him? I have a feeling semantics are becoming increasingly more important.
Liam: She offered me a way back, and it was the only way back. I wasn't coming back, not after that. Not without her blessing.
Marisha: Even if we found a way, you wouldn't take it. To reverse the deal. I'm not asking. I'm just confirming.
Liam: I don't want to leave, but there are some things that I will not test. Hey. I do have faith in her. And I have faith in you and what you'll do. (sighs) God, I feel so stupid.
Marisha: It's fitting, really. You can protect that plane. I'll be here to protect this one. I mean, if these past few days have taught us anything, it's death isn't the end. I just don't want to forget. If Sprigg could forget the names of his party members that he died alongside-- he ran-- never mind. What's going to happen in a hundred or hundreds or even a thousand years? I don't want to forget this. What if there comes a day when I don't even recognize the name Vox Machina anymore?
Liam: I don't believe that will happen. You're going to live a long life. Yes. And you will love again. And you will lead. And you will be loved, because who cannot love you?
Marisha: I can name a few.
Liam: No one of any worth.
Marisha: I'm grateful for you, and I always will be. And I'm grateful for any second that we have left. And I don't want to spend any more being angry at you. And I'm sorry that I was.
Liam: You don't want me to go?
Marisha: (laughs) Of course not.
Liam: Hey, I'm fucking cold. Will you give me a hug?
Marisha: Yeah. It's the weirdest thing, by the way, you being cold. I mean, it's just something to get used to.
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah.
Liam: I don't have any clever closer. I'm just going to crawl into bed and go to sleep.
Matt: Okay. Both of you curl up and fall asleep. The morning comes. You all come to consciousness within Scanlan's Magnificent Mansion. And find breakfast of various grains and oats and quinoa.
Taliesin: Lentils.
Travis: What do you mean lentils? What is that? What is a lentil? Is it a leaf? Is it a bean?
Taliesin: No one really knows, to be fair.
Travis: Why on god's green earth is it even here? I don't understand.
Taliesin: Lentils are here to punish us.
Travis: Really?
Taliesin: Yes. We have done something terribly wrong, and now we must eat of these.
Travis: That makes sense an hour from now when I get punished in the loo.
Taliesin: We are punished by that.
Marisha: I'm sorry. This head cold mixed with crying is bad.
Laura: It gets you, right?
Matt: Yeah, it's rough.
Laura: Yeah, that's what happened to me that day.
Marisha: It's the worst!
Sam: Well, your voice is super sexy tonight, so that's good.
Laura: (raspy singing) Smelly cat, smelly cat--
Marisha: (raspy singing) What are they feeding you?
Matt: All right, so as you finish your meals in the morning, prepare yourself for the actions of the coming day, what do you wish to do?
Laura: I don't fucking know.
Sam: Are we going to this volcano under the water?
Laura: Yeah, right? That's where we have to go.
Sam: We need to be able to swim.
Taliesin: And we need to be immune to poison.
Laura: Yes, so if we have a Heroes' Feast, that will take care of one thing. And I have two chalices because we never used the one.
Sam: We should save at least one for a certain fight.
Laura: Yes, obviously.
Travis: You can make us breathe underwater, right?
Marisha: Yes, I can.
Laura: All of us? Even Trinket?
Marisha: (unsure) Yes?
Laura: And Pike?
Matt: Well Pike, goes up-- yes, don't forget! "I can prepare the feast for you guys. That way, you don't have to spend a spell of yours for it. As you guys are on this mission to go make this-- I can be help-- I think I need to stay here for now to shepherd both the people in my temple of the Everlight with whatever words I can keep them calm under this chaos in the city."
Laura: Oh no! Pike, but what if Vasselheim is attacked?
Matt: "Then I can let you know. I also have a Sending spell prepared, so if anything happens, I can let you know immediately. As long as you're on this plane."
Sam: It's so convenient!
Matt: "That's what clerics are here for!" She punches you in the shoulder.
Travis: Can I have something of yours, at least until we see each other again? (sounds of distress)
Matt: "Of course, Grog!" And she comes up to you and, "Let me see your axe real fast."
Travis: Ooh, the Bloodaxe?
Matt: "Yeah!"
Travis: There you go! Mary Poppins handbag.
Matt: She hefts it and takes a little bit of her fading blue hair at the tip and carves off a little piece of it, hands the axe back to you, and very deftly braids it into a small braid, ties it off, and hands it to you.
Travis: (gasps) It's the sweetest thing ever.
Matt: "No, but seriously don't eat it, please."
Laura: That's really creepy.
Matt: "Grog! No! No."
Travis: I tie it onto my necklace.
Matt: Okay. "Please be safe. And if anything happens, I'm going to let you know as soon as possible."
Liam: Oh man, it's going to hurt not to have you with us, though. Oh, well.
Matt: "You guys will be fine. Better we save our strength for whatever's out there."
Travis: Yeah, and if Vasselheim is attacked, you don't go saving the city all by yourself.
Laura: Seriously.
Travis: I know what you're like.
Matt: "Why would I steal the fun from you?"
Travis: That's what I thought.
Matt: "Okay!"
Travis: All right. Bye, Pike.
Laura: Wait no, she has to prepare the Heroes' Feast for us before we say goodbye.
Travis: Hi, Pike!
Matt: You hand her the chalice, and she prepares the feast within the mansion, so what little bit of for some of you may have been an unsatisfying breakfast this morning is quickly taken over by the fantastically tasting feast of such a holy spread. Taking the hour to eat it, all of you guys get the benefits of Heroes' Feast.
Travis: No lentils, right?
Matt: There is a bowl of lentils for those who may want it.
Sam: I had some. (laughter)
Matt: All right, so as the Heroes' Feast says here--
Laura: Immune to fear and poison and advantage on wisdom checks.
Marisha: And you roll 2d10 extra.
Taliesin: Wisdom saving throws.
Matt: I'm going to roll 2d10 for you guys.
Laura: Do you guys want food now, or do you want to wait until the break?
Travis: Let's wait until the break.
Matt: Let's wait until the break.
Taliesin: We'll take a slightly early break in the long run.
Matt: Whoa! Two nines! (cheering)
Matt: That's lucky. Okay, so there you go. That's 18 additional hit points.
Laura: That can regenerate?
Matt: Yes. That's the maximum of your hit points for the next 24 hours, so keep that in mind, folks.
Marisha: Yeah, dope!
Laura: How long do your inspiring speeches last?
Marisha: Oh, that is an excellent question. How long do my speeches--
Sam: Said Kathleen Turner.
Liam: Said Harvey Fierstein. (laughter)
Marisha: Said Katharine Hepburn.
Matt: Inspiring Leader. A creature can't gain temporary hit points from this feat again until it has finished a short or long rest. So you have temporary hit points until your next long rest, essentially.
Marisha: Okay. So can I double up on that?
Liam: Give us more hit points?
Matt: You can. It'll be temporary hit points on top of that, yes.
Marisha: Oh. Yeah.
Sam: We're probably not going to fight anything, though.
Marisha: Since my voice is completely shot, and I don't want to do a speech.
Travis: Yeah, but we need it.
Marisha: I am going to do--
Marisha: An interpretive dance! (laughter)
Sam: An interpretive dance! (laughter)
Marisha: Of us swimming through the volcano, and then going underground and shielding ourselves, and then fighting! And then Grog's forging the trammels! (enthusiastic a cappella music)
Travis: Holy shit.
Liam: Still shouted narration through it all. (laughter)
Matt: Wow, that happened.
Taliesin: I'm amazed that took over a hundred episodes. I've been waiting for the interpretive dance for a long time.
Laura: Yay, how many did we get from that?
Matt: So everyone gets 18 temporary hit points, right?
Taliesin: Is that max goes up 18?
Matt: No, temporary hit points, so as soon as you take damage, they go away from the temporary first. Temporary never come back. Then you have the maximum hit point bonus.
Taliesin: So 18 max up and then an 18 on top of that that goes away once you get hit.
Liam: But do I get sneak attack damage, or is it also a critical hit?
Matt: Raven Queen taketh away. All right, so as you guys are all sitting there watching Keyleth dance while she eats, while you're eating, it's a unique display. You're prepared for the rest of your day, Pike says goodbye to everybody, gives you a hug. Says, "Be safe."
Sam: Pike, will you do me a favor, and will you get word to Kaylie somehow?
Matt: "I can do that, yeah."
Sam: Tell her Dad's okay and saving the world again.
Matt: She goes, "...Done!"
Marisha: Hey, Pike?
Sam: I should have asked that long ago!
Matt: "Probably, yeah!"
Marisha: Could you also do one of those to Tary?
Matt: "Right!"
Sam: Well, don't say, "Dad's okay, saving the world again." That won't make any sense to him.
Marisha: Tell him we're all alive.
Laura: Tell him we love him, and that we're okay for the time being.
Sam: Especially Scanlan. He's probably really concerned.
Matt: (laughs) You see this secondary dull flash and release of energy at her fingertips as she finishes the glyph.
Taliesin: Are we doing this now?
Matt: There we go, we have food now!
Laura: We're doing it live! Can I have one slice of breakfast pizza?
Sam: What is this, a restaurant?
Travis: Jesus, what the fuck?
Laura: He's like  hold on.
Liam: Pelor, can I have one slice of breakfast pizza, please? (laughter)
Marisha: This marker sucks balls!
Matt: So Pike makes her way toward her temple. You guys are still within Scanlan's mansion, what are you doing?
Laura: Okay, I guess we should exit the mansion. And then--
Sam: How are we traveling? And where are we going?
Travis: Do we Plane Shift?
Laura: Above the water, over to the volcano. How do we do this?
Marisha: It's a bit away from Vasselheim, if I remember. I did see a tree, right, that was near the town?
Matt: Yep.
Marisha: So yeah.
Laura: Okay, so once we're there, do we know exactly what we're doing?
Sam: We're diving down into the volcano, forging some trammels.
Laura: And the volcano's underwater. Is that what the schtick is with it?
Matt: Yes. It's on the floor, and you can notice it because across this open clear ocean, there is one column of black smoke that emits from the waves.
Laura: So it's an active volcano that we're diving into?
Taliesin: Underwater.
Laura: Solid.
Matt: Essentially.
Sam: One question. I have the infinite blessings of Ioun's knowledge. I am a holy man. However, I'm not exactly clear. Do we need those little peas to make these trammels? And we have three of them. We're not going to get more of these before we forge the trams?
Laura: I don't think there's time.
Travis: Remember, Delilah was already down there? She was in tunnels underground, right?
Laura: Somewhere. We don't know where, exactly.
Travis: We don't know if she's at this forge?
Laura: No, we don't know if she's there, we don't know if she's with Vecna.
Matt: The vision that you had, she was topside, and there was snow.
Marisha: Yeah, she was coming out of Thar Amphala.
Matt: Well, tunnels that burrowed beneath the city of Thar Amphala.
Marisha: And she was coming out. She had both of her eyeballs back, and was like, "Ooh, it's chilly." Bitch! Enjoying the winter snow.
Liam: Two regular eyes?
Marisha: Two regular eyes! Why do you think she keeps coming back? (gasps) Oh no.
Travis: What?
Laura: What?
Liam: What?
Taliesin: You're nervous about everything, is that what we've come to?
Marisha: I don't know, maybe she made a deal similar to the deals we've made, but with Vecna.
Taliesin: I would assume so.
Marisha: I mean, if gods can give us their blessing, why can't she have one?
Sam: We should really tip 10%.
Laura: I know, at least!
Sam: You know, be really generous.
Laura: Look at this! You guys!
Travis: So we go. Right? Do we go to the shore and then out into the ocean on a ship?
Laura: We go to the shore, then we climb up the volcano, then we dive into the volcano?
Travis: The volcano is underneath the ocean.
Laura: But there's smoke coming out of it!
Travis: Underneath the ocean.
Marisha: Yeah. A trail of black, sooty, bubbly goodness.
Travis: We've only talked about it for four hours; it's okay.
Laura: I thought maybe the top was coming out of the water.
Matt: No, it's at the bottom of the ocean. There are volcanoes underwater, and this one is less burning smoke. It's the sulfuric gases and poisonous fumes of the various reactions and chemicals and pressure beneath.
Travis: You never watched behind the scenes on Titanic?
Laura: I got it.
Sam: How do we get there?
Travis: We go to the shore.
Marisha: Well, I have a tree. I can get us there.
Sam: Okay. Let's do it.
Matt: So. With your things gathered, you all find your way, I imagine it's not too far of a walk from the Raven's Crest to a tree that is functional for this spell. It's on the southern border of the quarter that holds the Birthheart, the orchards and various trees there. You find yourselves a suitable tree, gather yourselves, steel yourselves. Now that the morning has come, the tension in the air of Vasselheim and the word that spreads of some sort of looming threat, though sourceless and directionless, definitely has built this air of fear and rush for preparation that surrounds you.
Travis: I have a question, sorry.
Matt: Yes?
Travis: Did Pike come with us to send us off?
Matt: I'll say sure! She walks you guys to the tree.
Travis: Pike? You know you have-- what's it called you put on me one time? That Death Ward? Should we put that on one of us before we go, just in case it's super dangerous? One of the squishier ones? Does someone want Death Ward, so if you go down--
Sam: Put it on Vax.
Travis: Yeah, no.
Laura: I think either Percy or I.
Liam: Pass.
Laura: You.
Taliesin: You.
Sam: Oh god, just kiss already!
Taliesin: We do.
Sam: Oh god! They do.
Travis: Boulder-Parchment-Shears. Perfect opportunity.
Taliesin: Flip for it. Heads or tails?
Marisha: Boulder-Parchment-Shears.
Travis: Yeah, come on.
Taliesin: Boulder-Parchment-Shears?
Travis: One time. One, two, three, go!
Marisha: Oh!
Laura: You.
Sam: Boulder always wins.
Matt: "I can give it to a few people." (laughter)
Laura: Thanks, Pike! That's convenient.
Matt: "That's going to tap out my spells there. I'm going to have to save some for Sending, just in case."
Laura: Yes, of course.
Travis: Those two.
Sam: Mr. and Mrs. de Rolo.
Matt: "Okay, this'll only last for eight hours, so travel quickly."
Taliesin: It's Mr. and Mrs. Vex, let's be fair.
Travis: Thanks, Pike. I thought it might help. Just in case.
Matt: "You, too?"
Travis: Nope! Nope. I like a little danger in my life.
Laura: Is this going to be like the kraken fight? Are we going to be underwater fighting again?
Marisha: I hope not.
Laura: You weren't there. We almost fucking died because you weren't there with us, Scanlan. I hated you at that moment.
Liam: Water under the bridge. Water under the kraken. We're on brighter horizons
Matt: As you guys are arguing, she leans forward and beneath her breath finishes the incantation with the Death Ward, and you, Vex'ahlia, it sounds like a soft clinging of gentle metals in the back of your head, and as it hits this warmth hits your chest and then it sets in. It doesn't quite fade, it's like having a localized blanket held to your sternum. Who else would like one?
Marisha: How many does she get?
Matt: I'll say for the purposes of this, she can muster four.
Laura: Scanlan.
Liam: (raspy voice) How many does she get?
Marisha: (mafia-style voice) How many you got?
Travis: Do you want one?
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: If you die, I'm going to be really upset.
Travis: On my birthday? Come on! What are the chances?
Marisha: He's got that whole barbarian "knock me down, I get back up again" thing.
Laura: I get the fuck back up again! You're Hercules Mulligan!
Marisha: That's why he would be a rogue/barbarian, I think!
Matt: So for those four that have marked it, you have Death Ward, which lasts for eight hours. The first time you drop to zero hit points, it brings you to one, and then the spell fades. All right. Pike sends you off with a wave and you all step through the tree. You feel the transitional burst of energy as the druidic magics pull you from one living source to another, and you all emerge on the outside of a tree that is barely wide enough to sustain the doorway between the two, and as you all gather on the outskirts, you turn around and you can see this somewhat-leafless, living through the winter, but not the prettiest tree you've seen. The doorway portal closes behind you. Glancing around you, there is a light snowfall and you can see slush and snow gathered, dirty, along the edges of the streets. You are on the outskirts of the city of Shorecomb. Population-wise, it can't be more than a few thousand people at most. It looks like there's a very healthy fish trade. To the immediate right of you, there's a cliffside, maybe 200 feet from the edge of the town where there are carts going to and from. You can the large crane carrying large containers and large nets filled with caught fish from the bottom of the cliffside. People around noticed you emerge from a tree, and you can see about four or five of the various peasants and working folk stop in their tracks and stare at you, frozen.
Liam: I know, weird, right? Really weird.
Marisha: Hi!
Matt: "This way, James." And he grabs his little kid's hand and the kid is slack-jawed watching you as he drags him off to the side. People start walking again and still glancing over their shoulder, they go about their business, keeping a very close eye.
Marisha: Maybe I should have found a tree less in the center of things.
Taliesin: I'd rather be here.
Matt: It's not the center of town, thankfully. Still off to the side, but you did catch the eye of a few folk.
Liam: I mean, you still transported us a long way. That's commendable.
Taliesin: How would one go about finding out if you're being watched via magical means? Is there a way to do that other than if one is not a magic user? Is that a perception check?
Matt: No, there are actual spells designed for that.
Laura: Are there spells designed to mask you?
Marisha: Yeah. I don't think any of us have them.
Sam: To mask you from scrying?
Laura: Yeah, so people can't see us. Do you know of anything like that, Scanlan?
Sam: I've heard of such things, but I don't currently have one.
Travis: Cool.
Taliesin: Just curious.
Travis: Good question.
Laura: Yeah, because Vecna's fucking watching us.
Travis: Right now?!
Laura: Yeah, all the fucking time.
Travis: You're sure?
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah, right over there.
Travis: Do we take a boat now? Or do we find some dolphins and ride out majestically?
Laura: Are we on the water?
Marisha: Can we make our way to the shoreline?
Matt: Okay, it's a couple hundred feet to get to the edge of the cliff. And these are sheer cliffs that drop off for 150, 200 feet or so before it hits very hard pebbled beaches. These aren't sandy beaches.
Marisha: I stop everybody, saying, be careful. It looks like it could be a thousand feet, which is deceiving.
Travis: You know, you're only talking to yourself. We all know.
Marisha: A thousand feet is so long.
Liam: So we're on cliffs facing the ocean, right now?
Matt: Yes, you guys are at the edge of the cliff. You look down, and there are the rocky beaches, there are a number of large docks that jut out from the rocky beach, and you can see there are about five or six varying degrees of rickety winding wooden staircases that are built into the cliffside that lead from the top edge of the cliff down to the beach below. You can see a lot of workers are currently hauling large sacks, small crates and boxes, things that are too small to bring on the large winding cranes that they have on the edge as well. There are ships coming, there are ships going. It looks like this is a decent trade stop for cities along the shoreside here in Issylra.
Laura: What do our elven eyes see? Can we see the smoke?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: That was a Legolas reference, in case you were wondering.
Liam: I'm not familiar with that reference.
Laura: A perception check?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: 20.
Matt: 20. Glancing out at this distance, the sky itself is very cloudy, very gray. It's a very gray day. It's cold, it's chilly, the wind that's blowing is very faint, but it's enough to the point where snow is falling. There is a very faint mist in the distance. Either a storm is coming or a storm has passed that's preventing you from seeing any sign of a glimmer of the smoke. So you're not entirely certain the direction.
Marisha: Can I tell if the storm is coming or the storm has passed?
Matt: Make a nature check.
Liam: And there are people about?
Matt: There are people about and some of them are just passing, not paying mind, and few of them stop and glance at these very well-dressed, very dangerous-looking figures that have now just walked up and look out past the ocean, but no one's broaching any conversation. They look like they're more making a wide berth or keeping a very untrusting eye on you as they walk past.
Liam: Druid's doing interpretive dance again.
Matt: So what did you get?
Marisha: I'm a motherfucking human barometer!
Matt: What did you roll?
Travis: Natural 20.
Marisha: Natural 20.
Matt: Oh shit! Okay.
Marisha: Yeah. I'm really good at the check.
Matt: You get the sense that a lot of the snow that was in the street when you got there and the slush was from a storm that recently passed. And the clouds and the fog that you see in the distance, it looks like it's blowing away.
Liam: You there, little girl.
Matt: Okay. (laughing) Strangely, no little girl is working at this dock. However, the person you did see that looked like a little girl is actually a generally short fellow who has a wrap over the top of his head, a swollen cheek where it looks like he might have some sort of a tooth infection who spins around. It's not a bonnet. It's a crusty looking fisherman, who is like, "Who are you calling a little girl?"
Liam: Oh, my bad, fellow! Sorry, as you can tell, we're not from around here. Visiting. Yeah, I had a couple of questions. One, there's a volcano just off this coast somewhere, right?
Matt: "Aye."
Liam: Do you know where it is? Could you point to it?
Taliesin: Was that affirmative or surprise?
Matt: Points out to the ocean.
Laura: Is he pointing in a general direction? I look where he's pointing. Can I see anything?
Matt: No.
Laura: Damn it.
Liam: Are there boats for rent, for hire?
Matt: "Maybe? Yes? I mean--"
Liam: All right, thank you, I think that's all I needed from you, okay.
Laura: I pull out a piece of gold. Do you know where the volcano is?
Matt: "Yes. What, do you think I'm a dog? What is this kind of treatment?"
Laura: Do you want to make some gold?
Matt: "Yes! I'd love to make some gold!"
Laura: Then can you tell me where the fucking volcano is?
Matt: "There we go, straight questions." He rubs his swollen cheek side. You can see his teeth are graying and yellow. There's a little bit of blackened decay at the edges, but he grins a little bit at the sight of the gold. "I need a little more than that paltry sum."
Laura: Paltry sum? How much gold do you see every day? I pull out another piece. Is this enough?
Matt: "Make it five, and I'll introduce you to my docksmen."
Laura: All I want to know is where the volcano is.
Matt: "But you're not looking for a ship to rent, right? Like he said?"
Laura: No.
Matt: "All right. (sniffles) Volcano is that way." And he points out. You see he glances over, he lines up where you can see a couple of larger rocks that are breaking out from the shore surface maybe 20 or 30 feet out from where the pebble beach ends and meets the water line. He's lining up his arm and, "That way, about five miles."
Marisha: Five miles.
Travis: Hey, use your elven eyes, see if you can see it.
Laura: Yeah, I'm going to look real hard. We're a thousand feet up.
Matt: Still, it's too hard to see right now.
Laura: Can't we spell ourselves out there?
Marisha: Well.
Taliesin: We might want that later.
Marisha: I mean, we could. We can.
Laura: We should rent a ship.
Taliesin: If we get a ship, then when it's all over, we have a way out.
Travis: Otherwise, we're walking five miles underwater.
Marisha: I would rather save my 8th-level Animal Shapes in case we need to bail.
Laura: All right, here's three more gold. How about that introduction?
Matt: "That I can muster." Puts the coins in a little pouch in the side and buttons it up and locks it. "All right. Follow me."
Sam: What's your name, young lady?
Matt: "Fenna."
Sam: Fenna. Pleasure to make your acquaintance.
Matt: "You as well, lass."
Marisha: I love Fenna in my salads.
Matt: Leads you guys back down one of the winding stairways, and you have to wait at certain moments. There are certain areas where it switchbacks, and it's open. You would think it's a platform for looking out, but it's more for letting people get past, and for the pathways up and down, it gets narrow on the actual stairs. But eventually, you make your way down to where these docks are, and there are three large buildings that are the hubs of most people checking in, checking out. They have a number of docksmen that are keeping tabs on what's going in and out of the dock, and what materials are being shipped in, taxing those that are using it temporarily, general business in the vicinity. He leads you over. "Now then, I'm going to introduce you to Senth. She can rent you something, at the very least. I recommend not letting that one in. She has a thing against the smaller folk."
Liam: Oh shit.
Sam: Oh. I'm being racisted against?
Matt: "Look, I'm not-- You seem like a very fine lady."
Sam: Touché, Fenna. Touché.
Matt: "But I know Senth well, and if you want to make a good impression, maybe keep her outside."
Laura: You're not the tallest yourself, you know.
Matt: Stretches his lower back with a couple of cracks and snaps. The hunched man gets about four, five inches of height and is almost cresting about Vax height.
Travis: Look, Scanlan. The necklace is really nice on the inside. I can vouch for it.
Sam: I'm not going into the necklace.
Travis: Why not? New experiences, right? Whatever it takes to achieve the mission.
Laura: Fuck it! Fuck it, I'm not disguising him because of what he looks like! Fuck that.
Sam: Are you standing up for me?
Laura: Of course I am!
Marisha: I would like to argue, he just disguised himself for a solid year.
Laura: I don't care. That was a different reason, and if your fucking dock mistress is such a bitch that she won't give us a good deal because of him then we'll find someone else.
Matt: Fair enough. I would also recommend you lower your voice. We're right outside of her door.
Marisha: Wait, what's her name?
Matt: Senth.
Marisha: Senth.
Sam: It's really easy. I don't mind putting on the hat.
Marisha: It is the principle, but do we have time for principles?
Taliesin: We have time for principles immediately afterwards, when we come back.
Liam: We never have before. Why start now?
Laura: I mean, it's up to you, but I don't think you should do it.
Sam: No, let's stand on principle.
Taliesin: Oh no.
Matt: "Are we done here?"
Taliesin: Oh, you're still here.
Matt: "Good day."
Travis: Thanks for your time.
Matt: Hobbles off and makes his way back up the stairs. So you come outside to this one dock hub. It's a modest two-story building looks like it has like a watch tower second story and the bottom floor is much larger. The door is currently closed. The wood looks a little sea-rotted. You can see the edges of the wood are curling and dark and perpetually damp. Little bits of green moss and various fungus are starting to gather at the very edges of the building, but it seems to be standing and has been there for a while.
Taliesin: (knocking sound)
Matt: You knock on the door. A voice inside goes "Come in."
Taliesin: (door creak) I don't know why I made the sound effect.
Matt: That's okay. As you push the door open, glancing inside, there's general gray dull daylight coming from the cloudy sky, but there are also a few oil lanterns hanging in different places. You can see stacks of maps or other heavy pieces of parchment that are curled up and tied off in sections. There are small crates, most of them empty, that are scattered about the entranceway here, and as you enter the building you watch as a very tall, thin, lanky female half-orc spins around across the room with a singular monocle that is very, very intense to make one eye look really big over the other. Spins around; sides of the head shaved and the rest of it slicked back against the head with a little bit of a light brown shock against the black to one side. Dressed fairly nice but you can see the clothing at an immediate glance is nice upfront and then tatters at the bottom. Spins around. "Yes?"
Taliesin: We were hoping to charter a ship at great expedience to about five miles off the coast to the plume of smoke and the underwater volcano.
Matt: You watch as the one eye, moving independently of the other, glances and looks each of you very quickly up and down and then slicks back into place. "That can be arranged, yes."
Taliesin: Excellent.
Matt: "How long would you wish to charter this ship?"
Travis: Three days?
Laura: Sure, yeah, probably be less than that but three days, sure.
Matt: Do you have a crew?
Taliesin: No, we would need to--
Sam: Can any of us sail?
Travis: Not if we want to live.
Taliesin: We would like to charter a crew also to maintain. We're going to be doing a bit of underwater search and rescue, so.
Matt: "Very well then."
Sam: Will that be possible?
Matt: "Yes."
Laura: Great. Wonderful.
Matt: "Three days' rental including a crew on board. That'll run you approximately 150 gold pieces. I require, to be in case you lose the ship or don't return with it, an additional 500 to hold in case you lose the ship. So a grand total of 650 up front with 500 to be returned upon your return."
Laura: Of course, and you have something to sign. I'm sure Percival can draw something up.
Matt: "Oh, but of course. I would not dream of allowing such a thing without a paper trail."
Taliesin: That will do.
Matt: "Follow me." A quick contract is drawn up. You take a glance over it, Percival. Seems very thorough but nothing beyond what was requested and basically if the ship is not returned all money is forfeit. When the ship is returned, a very intense investigation and perceived state of the ship is going to be requested from an appraiser to see if any damage was taken. Yeah, it's essentially like one of those seedy car rental places that the contract says they will ding you for every damage.
Laura: How much do ships normally cost?
Taliesin: I don't know.
Laura: 600 is very low.
Sam: I feel like we've rented a ship before.
Laura: But it was far less than this.
Taliesin: It was far less than this, but at this point I'm saying let's blow the money.
Laura: Yes, of course. I agree, but an entire ship I feel like would be more than 600.
Travis: We priced it out once before, and it was like 30,000.
Laura: Yeah, so she's giving us a really good deal.
Sam: Maybe it's a shitty ship.
Marisha: I mean, that's fine. I'd prefer a shitty ship if it's cheaper.
Matt: Slaps the contract down in front. "Have we a deal?"
Taliesin: I don't mind.
Matt: "Very well."
Sam: Would you take this as a deposit? I give her this platinum bracelet with a sapphire that I have. We'll get it back when we return the ship. Oh, wait.
Laura: Maybe you should amend that in the contract.
Matt: The one eye is still looking at you. The other is (buzzing) in front of the bracelet. "I find this acceptable in our agreement."
Sam: But wait, it just occurred to me as I was handing that over, we need platinum, don't we? That was platinum, wasn't it?
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Maybe we'll just do gold instead. Sorry, can I have that back? Sorry.
Liam: Smooth operator. (laughter)
Matt: Flings it back and there is an expression of, "Of course a gnome would do that." If this was a Telltale game it would say, "Her hatred for gnomes deepens."
Laura: That's fine. (bling)
Matt: "All right." Immediately puts it into a small shelf, writes down some remarks on it. "Very well, I will show you to the Shore Shanty. Follow me, please."
Laura: Oh, it sounds elegant.
Travis: Shanty's a fancy name for a mansion, right?
Matt: Leads you out to one of the far end docks, and there are a number of decent ships and larger fishing ships, some faster-travel ships, some long boats. You see one galleon-sized ship that's just left and taken away, and on the far end there is one of the shittiest tugboat-sized boats you've seen in a while. Scanlan, you've seen boats like this and they're largely used for either relatively cheap and relatively quick messenger services. A courier ship, if you will. That's about it.
Sam: Do we need a bigger vessel?
Laura: I have a feeling you don't believe this ship will make it back, do you?
Matt: "Well, that would not behoove me; I wish to keep my ships at dock where they're safe."
Laura: Of course. Yep.
Marisha: She's got a high-ass insurance policy on this bitch.
Taliesin: Clever.
Matt: "The crew is included. Go say hello. Hope to see you back in a few days." Whips around and walks her way back.
Travis: Did you see her eye? It didn't move. How does that happen?
Sam: She seemed very pleasant. Don't know what Fenna was talking about. Shall we away? Do we need to make any preparations before we go?
Taliesin: I think we're ready.
Sam: Do we have all of the materials we need?
Taliesin: Did we get the platinum from the bank, if I recall? I'm trying to remember.
Matt: Yeah, we'll say that that was your intent last time, that you made the conversion to platinum.
Taliesin: We would've platinumed.
Travis: Let's meet the crew.
Marisha: Oh boy.
Travis: How many crew are there?
Matt: There are three. Two of them appear to be the crustiest barnacles-- The gentleman that you met earlier, Fenna, looks like the brother of these two that mated. That really lived the life. Both of these men that are inside, that're playing cards hunched over the table, can't be younger than their early sixties. One of them has a big, thick, gnarled white beard that darkens at the tips which you can only imagine, as most hair tends to get lighter at the tips, means it's crusted with stuff. They're both wearing general seafaring garb and tattered clothing. They're muscular. Their skin is very tanned. One of them's wearing a heavy knitted cap that folds back onto itself and rests on his shoulder to the side. They are both playing cards and they look over. "I guess it's time to work." Takes the cards, pulls them up from the table. "All right, where we going?"
Laura: You strapping young lads are taking us out to the volcano.
Travis: Yeah, Scaldseat.
Matt: Both look at each other. "All right, let's wake up Santy."
Marisha: Santy? Shanty.
Matt: Santy.
Sam: Santy.
Travis: The name of the boat is the Sea Shanty, but the captain is Santy.
Matt: Santy of the Shanty. Technically, this is Captain Santy of the Shore Shanty.
Laura: The Shore Shanty?
Matt: Yeah. It's a mouthful.
Laura: Captain Santy of the Shore Shanty? I love it!
Matt: You watch as this large gentleman walks over and slams his fist on this small, wooden-- ugh, my brain isn't working. Thank you, a hatch in the ground. "We've got customers." And you hear this rustling beneath and all of a sudden the hatch slams up, and barreling out from underneath you see the drunkest, most unshaven, unwashed, gnarled goliath you've ever seen. No facial hair, but bits of frizzled dark hair in the back, which is interesting. Very few goliaths grow hair. Now what's interesting about this, too, is the size isn't as large as you height-wise, but width is about matching yours, so this is a bowling ball of a goliath. Steps up on the top. (grunts)
Laura: Only taller.
Liam: A large Danny DeVito.
Matt: Actually, yeah, that's a good point. But if Danny DeVito also was doing Iron Man competitions for a number of years and then let himself go, so he has the bulk of the muscle underneath but then-- Yeah. Doesn't say a word, just looks at you all and then walks out onto the deck of the ship.
Laura: Great.
Travis: Can I look down into the hatch where he came from? Can I see anything?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: We're just going from point A to point B. This is just what we need.
Travis: Two.
Matt: It is dark, but you can smell the rum.
Travis: There's rum down there. Down there? There is rum.
Marisha: Well, we have five miles ahead of us.
Travis: Let's get shit-housed. Who cares what our responsibilities are?
Laura: How long would it take to go five miles on this fabulous ship?
Matt: Well, one of the two older gentlemen that were there, the one that knocked on the hatch, goes, (hums). Sticks his hand out the side of the doorway, "Maybe two hours? Three hours?"
Marisha: Ugh. No. I'm going to go fix with that. Whatever. You know what I'm saying. (wind noises)
Travis: We haven't even left the dock yet.
Matt: They pull the sail up, they get everything ready, they go ahead and undock from the dock, pull up anchor, and the general wind, because it's cliffside here, the wind is pretty strong right here at the bay, so immediately the sail billows open and the ship takes off. And they begin to curve in the direction, loosely, of where you were pointed earlier.
Marisha: After those initial winds, I take them and keep us going for a little bit.
Laura: I'm going to keep an eye on where the little guy said the volcano was and try to make sure our drunk captain is taking us to the right place.
Travis: After all, we are going on a three-hour tour.
Marisha: Actually, it should be only about half an hour, now!
Sam: Ooh! There's sound effects, first of all. Appreciate the sound effects. If we're going on a three-hour tour, I demand to know who's Gilligan, who's the Skipper, millionaire and his wife. The movie star--
Taliesin: Ginger.
Sam: Ginger, yeah.
Marisha: Well, then there's the Professor and Mary Ann. Yeah. Well, you may be the Professor. So maybe you're Mary Ann. Does that make me Ginger?
Liam: Well, wait. Wouldn't you be Thurston Howell III?
Taliesin: I feel like I would really be Thurston. I feel like Thurston's better.
Marisha: Yeah. Actually, yeah.
Laura: You're Mary Ann, you're Professor.
Liam: This is going to be very helpful against Vecna.
Matt: You're the crazy monkey on the island that kept fucking shit up.
Sam: Little buddy!
Matt: All right. As you set sail, the wind picks up, speed is enhanced and you gather at this rate probably in under two hours you'll probably make it to the destination with the help of the Air Ashari--
Marisha: It's a 2nd-level spell. Gust of Wind.
Matt: So as it guides on, Captain Santy stands at the front of the ship glancing out, this giant square jaw just nestled right into where the pecs meet up beneath the thick sweater that's almost hanging off the arms at this point. No cap, balding head with the scraggly hair in the back, and just looks off in the distance. The rest of the two are just sitting back where there are various jugs of some unseen liquid, keeping tabs on the sail. It's a very leisurely, lackadaisical energy on this ship.
Liam: How many feet, I guess, is this ship from front to back?
Matt: Front to back, I'd say it's about 25 feet.
Sam: We're crammed on this thing.
Matt: This is a tiny ship. It's 25 to 30 feet.
Laura: There's no way to go any faster on this? Is there no way to go faster, Captain?
Matt: Captain? You say this to the captain? He goes--
Laura: Do you go out to this volcano often? Lovely.
Marisha: Santy is so wise.
Travis: Why do you say that?
Marisha: He sees the sea. Look at him.
Taliesin: We can all see the sea. It's right there.
Marisha: Santy of the Shanty seas sees the sea.
Matt: And he points out and you glance out at where Santy of the Shore Shanty is, and you can see in the distance there's a little line of dark that is rising out of the ocean.
Laura: Oh, you found it.
Taliesin: Santy of the Shore Shanty spotted--
Travis: I will throw something.
Marisha: Do you think Santy of the Shore Shanty sells sea shells?
Taliesin: Surely not.
Matt: Rocks fall. Everyone dies. Quickly enough, you begin to approach and you can now see what was a thin column is now a fairly large billowing stream of dark fume that you can see as the waves get larger and larger the further out you go. Certain swells, some of it breaks up and it chains and snakes upward, based on how it's finding its way to the surface. Eventually, you get within maybe 30, 40 feet of where it breaks the surface there, and the sails fall into loose and are tied around the bottom, anchor is thrown off the side, chain is let down, and then eventually the captain turns back and--
Laura: All right.
Sam: All right.
Travis: Jeez. Hold on. I saw you drop anchor. Do you have an idea of how deep it is here?
Matt: Glances over the side.
Laura: Very deep. Is your chain long enough for your anchor to hit bottom? Cool.
Liam: I'm sorry do you-- do you talk, ever?
Matt: As soon as you say that question, the two other older gnarled gentlemen on the ship go (noises of warning). Captain is just staring at you. (spits) Spits on the ground before you.
Marisha: I see you're also skilled in interpretive dance. You're very good.
Travis: Oh shit. The ship will be gone when we come back up.
Liam: I don't wanna waste time on the gnome business. Let's just go on.
Sam: Let's do this.
Marisha: Water Breathing!
Laura: Oh, and Trinket!
Marisha: And Trinket. (poof)
Laura: I had him in the necklace because it was such a tiny little boat, but now he's out.
Matt: Yeah. All right. With that, you all have water breathing.
Laura: Oh wait, can he swim? He's good. He did it before, right?
Matt: Yeah. He's as good at swimming as half of your party.
Laura: He's an expert now after the kraken fight.
Sam: What?
Taliesin: I'm so glad I don't have to do that. You just do it for me. It's very nice.
Marisha: Keyleth uses Alter Self to give herself the gill hands. The webbed fingers again. That was cool.
Travis: You got to do a proper paddy entry into the water. (splash)
Matt: Perfect. As each of you make your way into the water (splashing). You can smell, by the way, the fumes. Because you see the dark color of it, you immediately envision or at least instinctively prepare for the smell of fire smoke or a fireplace. As soon as it hits you, it's a very acrid, sharp metallic smell with hints of sulfur and other chemicals that burn the inside of your nose and sinuses immediately.
Liam: In the water, going up our noses?
Matt: It's the proximity. Being near, you can smell occasionally as the wind blows through, a whiff gets to you. You all make your way under the surface and begin to swim down, following with your vision where the source of this dark column of fume is.
Travis: Do we have good visibility?
Matt: It's all right.
Travis: 40 feet? 60 feet?
Matt: I'd say about 60 feet or so before it gets a little murky.
Taliesin: I think I've still got one more charge on the flashlight, if I recall.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: The red light?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: All right, so you guys make your way... down below. Who's leading this? I should get a marching order for underwater, by the way.
Liam: I will go ahead.
Laura: I'm useless and Percy's useless underwater.
Taliesin: Extremely useless.
Matt: Percy has the light, too.
Taliesin: I'll be in the middle.
Marisha: I'll be with Percy, more up front.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: I'll be just behind Percival.
Matt: All righty. Grog?
Travis: Where should I be?
Matt: You're sinking faster than most anybody.
Travis: Yeah. How about I'm the down-weighter system for whoever's in the front? I'll hold onto their ankles.
Matt: Is Trinket in your necklace or swimming, as well?
Laura: He's out. He's swimming.
Matt: Okay, so Trinket's trying to keep up next to you. Scanlan, where are you?
Sam: I'm probably next to Percy.
Matt: All right, so you guys begin making your way down. You can breathe the water just fine as you descend 40, 60 feet, 80 feet.
Laura: I'm equalizing.
Travis: You're breathing water. It's not necessary.
Laura: Really? Your ears wouldn't pop, still?
Travis: There's no air in your sinuses.
Laura: Oh, right. Okay, cool.
Matt: It's funny. You mention equalizing, and I can't help but try and do it myself now.
Travis: Quick question. Like in space, can we talk underwater if there's no air going through our vocal cords? Cool.
Laura: Oh, good. We can't communicate.
Matt: I'll say because you have the earring, it's a little garbled, but you can hear it a little bit.
Marisha: It's like that game we all played when we were growing up.
Matt: You can make out the gist of things, but depending on how fast you're talking, it could be hard to hear. It's getting darker and darker the further down you descend, and the water gets murkier and murkier. It also gets warmer.
Travis: Stop peeing, Vax.
Matt: (chuckles) I was waiting for it.
Laura: You called him Vex.
Liam: Vax, and I said sorry at the same time, so I'm peeing right now, is what I'm saying.
Matt: It's good. It leads you into it. Descending further and further, the only visible light that you have is the one that Percival is shining below, and as it goes through, you can see it reveals another 40 or so feet ahead of you, and then as you pass over, it suddenly becomes shorter and then longer again as it comes and hits the smoke, and you can see the smoke and the fume now. It's billowing up at a rapid pace, and the water is getting hotter and hotter, to the point where now it's starting to feel like a sauna.
Laura: (garbled) We didn't think about fire resistance, did we?
Matt: About another 20 or so feet, and it's hot enough to stand, but it's getting really uncomfortable, and with Percival's light, you can see the bottom. (soft impact) You guys all land there at the bottom of the ocean. It's so dark that outside of Percival's light and the glow around you, you only see the outline of each other from the splash-back of the light as he projects it around.
Laura: Does anybody have any light?
Marisha: I can light up my flame hands.
Travis: You're underwater.
Matt: You're underwater.
Marisha: But it's magic. I thought it doesn't matter?
Matt: I will say, you get a little bit there, and it's fighting against it. It's a very faint glow. You can see where Keyleth is, but it doesn't add any light to the rest of this.
Travis: (garbled noises)
Liam: (garbled noises)
Laura: We really need to say stuff, though, because no one's going to be able to understand us. (laughter)
Travis: Do you see anything around us?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Taliesin: I may join in on that, because I have a flashlight.
Liam: 28.
Matt: You guys both have disadvantage on this, by the way, because of the lack of visibility.
Liam: 28.
Laura: Scanlan, don't you have Dancing Lights or anything?
Taliesin: 21.
Sam: I can make a Fireball. (garbled) I can make a Fireball, but it will probably go out really quick.
Laura: (garbled) Don't you have a Dancing Lights cantrip or some shit like that?
Sam: (garbled) No.
Laura: (garbled) Lame.
Matt: All right, so glancing down, you can see you guys are standing on a rising upward cone; the top of the volcano at this point, where you can see all the ground below you, especially immediately around where the water or the fume is gushing out, is porous, dark rock. There's no soot; there's no soft surface that you hit. There's no usual bottom of the ocean you expect. Yeah, no sediment. It's just hard rock. The force of the vents seems to be pushing any of the sediment off, and it descends slowly around you and disappears into the darkness. You can see a number of small-- strangely enough, with the heat of the surrounding area, too, you can see little bursts of color within the porous rock, and with a quick glance, Vax, you can see there are bits of plant life, colorful pinks and purples that are slowly pulled into the porous rock on the outside of these vents. You can see a very faint glow in a couple of places of the rock where it looks there is still some sort of very hot, very slow pressurizing molten rock that is cooling slowly. It looks like there's this constant slow battle between the ocean water and whatever's forcing upward.
Marisha: Do I see any-- (garbled) Do I see--
Matt: (whispering) Don't, please. (laughter)
Matt: Please don't.
Liam: It sickens me. (laughter)
Marisha: Are there any pockets other than the main pressure point that might be a smooth entry point?
Matt: Right now, where it's emerging, these jets of extremely hot fume that are billowing past you, it looks like there's one concentrated opening at the moment. As you walk around, it looks like it's not one central column. It looks like there's a number of smaller fissures that are all clustered around this area, and it's hard to see the separation because so much of it's mashing into one giant column as it emerges.
Marisha: Okay. Yeah. All right, so it's hot water and gas coming up. If I theoretically wanted to do a Control Water spell and reverse the water inwards, could we go in through one of these tunnels? Through one of these fissures?
Matt: You can certainly try.
Taliesin: I hate that phrase.
Travis: You've got the Death Ward. Go for it!
Marisha: I'm more thinking for all of us. I don't know how else we're going to get in.
Laura: Can you make yourself a fire elemental, and it won't damage you if you go-- or will water fuck with you?
Matt: Oh, water will fuck with you as a fire elemental.
Marisha: I could be a water elemental, though.
Matt: You could.
Travis: Should we walk around? The volcano, is it massive?
Matt: You don't know. Your visibility vanishes about 40 feet away from you.
Liam: And we're just seeing little glows in the distance?
Matt: You're seeing little glows within the actual areas where the fumes are spewing up. You're seeing down where the smoke is emerging. You're seeing every now and then a faint glow that appears here and there.
Taliesin: Are the faint glows repetitive, like they're coming from the same place over and over again?
Matt: Yeah. It looks like the glow is stationary. It's just the smoke obscuring it as it passes by and occasionally gives you a glimpse.
Taliesin: Let's head towards the glow.
Laura: Yeah. It might be magma coming out, though.
Travis: There are tunnels that exist already.
Taliesin: It might be magma. Also, if we see anything resembling an air bubble, then we know there's something that breathes.
Marisha: If we want to wait a few minutes, I could do a Commune With Nature.
Laura: Yeah, do that. That's smart! Yeah.
Marisha: I'm going to be like, underwater tea party! (glugging) And do a Commune With Nature for a little bit. I get three questions? I want to find any easy tunnels.
Laura: Man-made tunnels.
Marisha: Man-made tunnels that aren't going to bake us alive.
Laura: Any dangerous creatures in the area.
Marisha: Any dangerous creatures in the area. That's good. And the Anvil. Okay.
Matt: Because of the nature of this, the radius is limited to 300 feet because it's considered a somewhat underground, not out-in-the-open setting.
Marisha: All right, yeah, 300 feet.
Matt: All right, so. You take the minute and concentrate beneath. And with that, all of a sudden you feel your conscious extend into the rock and stone and the various forms of plant life that have made home around the outskirts of the top of this volcano's caldera. Your questions are?
Marisha: Are there any man-made tunnels that will grant us access into the volcano without burning us alive?
Laura: And where are they?
Marisha: And where are they?
Sam: That's two questions.
Matt: No.
Travis: Man-made is not important.
Sam: How about, any tunnels?
Marisha: Are there any tunnels getting into the volcano?
Matt: You feel the sense of the rock and the surrounding material guide your attention, very focused, into the center of where that fume is erupting.
Taliesin: Oh. Okay.
Liam: The Anvil is probably too far away at this point. Yeah, it's probably not right here at the top. What about these colorful plant things floating past us? Are they going to sting us and paralyze us?
Sam: Should we find out, from nature, how far down in the magma it is?
Travis: Yeah, what the location of the Anvil is?
Marisha: I'm afraid that 300 feet--
Laura: But maybe it'll know how far away it is, even though it can only-- Does it work that way?
Marisha: Within 300 feet, I can see the area.
Laura: Oh, okay.
Liam: Said the fantasy heroes.
Marisha: Yeah. Hostile creatures! Hostile creatures in the area.
Matt: Hostile creatures in the area?
Marisha: Dangerous hostile creatures. How many more adjectives can I throw in there?
Liam: Pissy.
Taliesin: Irritated creatures.
Travis: Starving.
Marisha: Do harm. Ill will.
Matt: Terrain. Bodies of water. Prevalent plants, minerals, animals or peoples. Powerful celestials, fey, fiends, elementals or undead. You do get a very faint sense of elemental movement. You're not quite sure what that pertains to specifically, but it is moving just outside the radius of your sphere of understanding here at the top of the volcano, and it is moving slowly through rock.
Laura: There you go.
Sam: Through rock.
Marisha: Earth elemental.
Laura: So we need to go in the top, yeah?
Travis: Or through rock. You can make tunnels, right?
Marisha: I can make tunnels.
Travis: I would prefer to do that than go down the barrel of the shotgun, but that's just me.
Sam: Travis, can you say that with your finger flapping on your mouth please?
Travis: (garbled) No. (laughter)
Marisha: Are we concerned if I start boring tunnels into the side of this that magma and pressure will start releasing out the side?
Travis: I'm just saying.
Sam: He's just saying.
Liam: Vax swims down towards the cone. And I think the last time I talked about the Deathwalker's Ward, I'd set it to fire, so we'll say fire.
Sam: Immune to or resistant to?
Matt: Resistant to.
Marisha: Is my mantle helping with the heat?
Matt: Yeah, the heat isn't bothering you as much. It helps with extreme heat as a general weather type, but intensely dangerous heat like fire or anything, it's not going to help you with that. So you dive into the center?
Travis: Yeah, I forgot. He's like a crash test dummy. We'll worry about that later.
Matt: You watch as Vax disappears into the liquid. The pressure is a lot. I need you to make an athletics check first.
Liam: Okay, that's what I'm best at. Athletics. Natural 20. Thanks, Matt Colville.
Matt: You swim down into the darkness and you're using your sense of balance to keep tabs on what is up and what is down, because once you dive into the middle of this pillar you see nothing. And you begin to swim down, feeling for where the gravity is pulling you and the force against you, and use that to get your bearings.
Liam: I know it's probably fuck-all, but I'm going to pull out the Flametongue Dagger and try to use it as a shitty-ass--
Matt: You can faintly see a little bit of it there. You do take three points of fire damage as soon as you enter the water, reduced to one. So you manage to push through and descend about 15 or so, 20 feet. You suffer another six points of fire damage, reduced to three. Need you to make another athletics check, please, as you're pushing further and further down.
Liam: Use my first Luck of the day. Oh, not good. Same thing. Just a six.
Matt: A six? It begins to push you up, you lose a little bit of ground. You take another one point of fire damage. You begin to make up, and you get partway down. You get another 40 or so feet down into it, you think. Still unable to really see anything. Occasionally, you see a glint of that light that you saw before. The little bit of glow. You take another three points of fire damage, reduced to one. It is a lot of heat, but you continue to push further. Make another athletics check, a third one.
Liam: 20, total.
Matt: 20? (grunting) Pushing along, still making your way down, making your way down. You get probably another 80 or so feet before it seems to curve off a little bit to the side. The force of the water begins to shift a little bit. You take another three points of fire damage. You begin to see a faint bit of that glow that you were following earlier, and as you head towards it the heat gets more and more intense. You begin to push past some of the smoke, and you can see right there, looks like there's a glowing ember of rock about five or six feet wide that is molten rock that is slowly cooling as it's being pushed faintly out, but the force of the water curves off to the side and you continue to swim away from where that glowing ember is and following the path of where this push of water is. You take another two points of fire damage.
Liam: Okay. I'm Ed Harris, sinking down and down and down.
Matt: The temperature is going up. You continue to swim, continue to swim. Further down, further down, further down. Make another athletics check.
Liam: 16.
Matt: Okay. You're slowing down a bit, but you're still getting ground. You also take another three points of fire damage. This is getting hard.
Liam: Yeah?
Matt: And even your form, you're getting a little tired, having to go against this force. And you're not quite sure where this is going to lead you. You're not going to stumble across an opening where it's fine to walk. You're continuing to swim down a superheated--
Liam: I'm going to push it just a little bit more.
Matt: Okay, make another athletics check.
Liam: Okay. That's not good. That's a seven.
Matt: Okay. You get pushed back about 15 feet or so, and you take another three points of fire damage.
Liam: And I'll go with it, up.
Matt: Okay. You ride up. Before you can get entirely out of the column, you take another three points of fire damage and eventually emerge from the side of it. Uncomfortable.
Liam: Back into warm piss water, instead of boiling hot.
Matt: Yes, which comparatively is much more comfortable.
Liam: Nope!
Travis: What did you see?
Liam: I mean. You can't really understand me though, can they? Right? It's all shit.
Laura: Oh, we can understand you.
Matt: You have the earring on.
Liam: It goes forever. I think we need to look elsewhere. I don't think all of us are going to make it down that fucking tunnel.
Marisha: What if I'm controlling the currents?
Liam: (sighs) That would help. It was getting hot as hell down there. I don't know. I mean, maybe a quick look around the perimeter of this thing?
Marisha: I didn't find anything.
Travis: Yeah, but it might be worth it. We don't even know what the Core Anvil looks like.
Taliesin: We have a broom.
Liam: We're not going to muscle our way down.
Laura: No, it doesn't do anything in-- it flies.
Taliesin: Does it not work underwater?
Laura: I can try. But it flies.
Travis: I mean, no.
Matt: You can certainly try.
Laura: Yeah. It'll just sit.
Liam: Well, I think we're either druiding our way in or looking for another way in, somehow.
Laura: Fuck. How long did that take?
Matt: He was gone for about a minute. Minute and a half.
Sam: I have an idea. What if I could make us a tunnel straight down the middle? Would the heat kill us or would the water tamp down the heat? If I can make a ten-foot wide tunnel all the way through, down?
Laura: With no water?
Travis: It might make another exhaust port for the heat and the water.
Marisha: That's what I was saying. I'm afraid of the pressure.
Sam: The pressure of what? Once it comes up, it becomes rock. Oh, I see. There's more underneath.
Travis: You didn't see tunnels, right? You didn't see tunnels in the sides of the volcano?
Liam: No.
Travis: Because we're not trying to go down, we're trying to find the tunnels.
Sam: What tunnels?
Travis: There are tunnels here.
Laura: There are tunnels here.
Matt: Both Percival and Scanlan, make an intelligence check, please.
Sam: Just a straight intelligence check?
Matt: Just whatever you roll plus your intelligence modifier.
Sam: Eight!
Taliesin: 14.
Matt: 14. On this discussion of burrowing deeper within, if there were any places where you could walk that were not completely filled with water, per se, the minute you exposed it, it would begin to fill with water. Which means you'd have think of a way to either plug it or just stay wherever water exists within the system beneath.
Travis: Right. I don't know if we're trying to get to the inside of the volcano shaft.
Marisha: Our water breathing lasts for 24 hours.
Taliesin: Let's roll around a little bit. See if we can see anything else.
Laura: Maybe we can go around the perimeter and see if we can find some sort of entrance. Some magical-looking entrance.
Marisha: Scanlan, your burrowing. What means are you using for that?
Sam: Magic.
Marisha: Touché.
Sam: Sorry, Miley Cyrus.
Travis: There's a chance the Core Anvil could be made of molten rock, right? There's nothing that says it's a not dangerous, totally cool to be around piece of thing.
Marisha: I have a feeling that's exactly what it is. It's going to suck working around that thing. Sorry.
Travis: I'm not worried about it. Well, we've got to find whatever it is. We don't even know what it looks like!
Laura: Do you know, Percival, what it looks like? Did you see it in your mind's eye?
Matt: You only have the construct of the actual trammel, not the anvil.
Travis: Yeah, when I was getting the upload from Morpheus, did I see what the Core Anvil might look like? Or was it just like, I'm just hammering and Rambo 2 montage music is playing.
Matt: More that.
Marisha: Scanlan?
Sam: Yes?
Marisha: Okay. Can we tag-team this?
Sam: All right, I can be a burrowing monster.
Marisha: Okay, what if you burrow and I push the water away--
Sam: Is that a spell?
Marisha: Yeah, Control Water. I can push it away, and if you do that, then maybe we can all get in and then maybe I can throw up a wall!
Sam: All right, I can burrow. You can deflect water and stuff?
Laura: Through the mountain? Through the volcano, instead of down the top, like he just did.
Sam: Whatever you want.
Marisha: Or I can control the currents and suck us all right through down the top.
Taliesin: I like "control the currents." I don't know.
Sam: But the currents can't go down because stuff is coming out, no?
Marisha: As part of Control Water, I can reverse the currents.
Sam: But you can't control the lava coming up.
Marisha: No, it's water and gas and pressure.
Sam: Oh, it's just gas. It's not lava.
Matt: You can also part water, don't forget, as a part of this, too. You can also part water.
Marisha: I can also part water, like fucking Moses.
Matt: Yeah, or redirect flow. Or create a whirlpool. There are all things you can do.
Laura: Solid, then let's try it.
Liam: What were you thinking? Were you thinking of Umbrasyling this shit, were you going to black dragon dig your way down?
Sam: I was going to become a purple worm. They're excellent at burrowing and are big and could make a big tunnel.
Laura: Are they resistant to water and heat?
Sam: No, but they are stacked with hit points.
Laura: Solid.
Marisha: That would be one of your top-level spells, yeah?
Sam: The toppest.
Laura: Let's not do that just yet. Let's control current and see if we can fucking do it, with some light this time.
Travis: We need a walk. Walk the perimeter
Marisha: I mean, we can still walk the perimeter if you want.
Liam: I mean, we got a little under 24 hours. Fuck it, let's look.
Marisha: We can walk the perimeter
Taliesin: Let's do a little walk of the perimeter, and when we're ready, we're going to jump down and we'll Mary Poppins it.
Matt: Okay, so you guys begin to make your way around, spiraling the outside of this.
Taliesin: Looking, using the light.
Matt: Okay, what are you looking for?
Taliesin: I'm looking for other expelling gasses, interesting plant growth, lights.
Liam: Anything that looks not-natural.
Travis: Yeah, caves.
Matt: Okay, everyone who's looking, make an investigation check.
Marisha: Investigation? Natural 20. (cheers)
Travis: Oh, minus two. 17.
Taliesin: 14.
Liam: 18.
Laura: Ten.
Matt: As you guys are glancing about, for over the next 15 or so minutes, just swimming around and keeping an eye out there, Keyleth, with your glowing hands and cruising across as you head down, you can feel a couple of other small changes in the current. Less of a fume release, more than there is a warmer area of water in a small area and you find there is a pressurized jet of water coming out of one section maybe about 25 to 30 feet down on the side.
Laura: Hey! You're smart, Grog!
Marisha: How big is the jet?
Matt: I'd say it's between about three feet long on one side and about a foot long on the other. It's a fissure.
Laura: So we can get through it?
Marisha: Yeah, can Grog fit?
Matt: No.
Marisha: Okay.
Taliesin: But can Trinket fit?
Matt: No, Trinket or Grog, neither of them can fit. Most of you guys have to squeeze through, and it's as hot as the water that was coming out of the top.
Marisha: Is it made out of stone? Can I call this earth? Can I call this rock?
Matt: It's considered rock. It's volcanic rock.
Marisha: So Move Earth would not work?
Taliesin: Or Grog can punch it.
Laura: Yeah, Grog can punch.
Marisha: You are good at destroying structures.
Sam: You're going to punch a volcano?
Matt: Yeah, dirt, sand, or clay, so I'm going to say no.
Marisha: Can I transmute the rock into dirt or sand to give us a little more?
Matt: If you have a means of doing that, you could.
Marisha: I have Transmute Rock. Or we can let Grog go first.
Taliesin: Let's let Grog punch a volcano.
Matt: You want to punch a volcano?
Travis: Kind of.
Taliesin: Teach it to say your name!
Matt: Roll a strength check.
Travis: (garbled) Say my name, bitch!
Laura: Don't you get advantage?
Travis: I do. Only if I'm raging.
Matt: I'll give you advantage on this because it's a volcano punch.
Travis: Hey! Oh, 26.
Laura: Don't you get advantage because of your gauntlets?
Matt: Well, no. The gauntlets don't give him advantage, but they do give him siege and he does double damage against structures and I'll consider this a natural structure. You rear back, and as you do, you guys watch. You haven't really watched him use this type of power in the dark before, and you watch as the faint bit of a few yellow runes glow as he pulls back and then slams into the side and you watch as rock breaks and bits of the volcanic rock break off and begin to tumble down the sides. He punches again and punches again and as you do watch the water flow, you feel the warmth come up. You immediately take six points of fire damage from the heated jet in front of you, but as you slam it one more time, part of it (rock collapsing) gives away underneath as one side of it begins to jet up, you watch as it looks like there is a gap or an air pocket that collapses inward and the water begins to fill in immediately.
Laura: Let's get in quick and then cover it. We go fast, go in.
Matt: Okay. You guys are all fighting against the current?
Laura: Well, didn't you say there was an air pocket?
Matt: Well there was an air pocket that you saw, but the stone as he punched in, as soon as it collapsed inward it was away from where the jet was. It's a very interesting thing to try and describe here in a theater of mind scenario.
Marisha: We're trying to go through an outward jet to this caved-in air pocket.
Matt: Yeah, essentially you've opened up where the jet's strength has diminished a little bit at the surface at this point, and you've watched as you've punched and there will be another chamber below that was an air chamber collapsed inward, and ocean water is rushing into it right now.
Marisha: Okay, okay. Let me Control Water with the current, and can I redirect the current up and around us to allow us to get in?
Matt: Okay, so Control Water takes an action to cast. So as soon as that happens, you finish the spell and as the ocean water begins to rush in (water rushing), it immediately pulls back out, and you can actually stop the current that's blowing upward and heated water is held in place, and you can look down below. The water is this slightly shimmering barrier and there is a small air-filled chamber below.
Marisha: Okay, yeah, I'm pushing the water, parting it, giving us a little.
Sam: Can we fit through whatever hole there is?
Matt: Actually, looking down inside, it looks to be roughly 20 or so feet wide on almost any other side, and it looks to be that there's a small, still pool that is there in the ground. It's a small air pocket.
Laura: Yeah, I go in after him.
Matt: Okay, you all rush inside there. You land past it and it's about a 15 foot drop, you all land on your feet or stumble off to one side and catch yourself, but you're now in this chamber beneath.
Sam: And the only thing keeping the water from rushing in here is Keyleth?
Matt: Keyleth currently, yeah.
Laura: I like how everything is like, "Keyleth can do this." Can you wall it off with Create Wall?
Sam: Well, not while casting this spell.
Marisha: All right, push the water, Wall of Stone (boom).
Matt: As soon as the water pushes away, it begins to pull back, and immediately you can hear the rush of the ocean suddenly, oppressively, darting downward to fill the space where you are and then with that, (slamming) you watch as volcanic stone stretches out and slams shut. You're now in a pitch-black room except for the surface of his light and the glowing of Keyleth's hands.
Laura: Yay! Which are brighter now because we're not in water.
Marisha: Oh!
Taliesin: Ow, my ears popped.
Sam: That was amazing!
Laura: That was fucking sick!
Marisha: You punched a volcano!
Travis: I did, didn't I? Grog versus the volcano!
Matt: As you guys have this conversation, you're talking, and sounds are happening, everything's fine. But, (exhales) breath is hard.
Marisha: Oh, oxygen?
Sam: Or poison?
Travis: Air pocket.
Matt: All of the air in here is poisoned. There is no oxygen in this room. There is that pool of water in the center, maybe four-foot wide, and you can see it's kind of bubbling a bit, like whatever the fume is that's filled the space is--
Liam: How does Heroes' Feast factor into this? Heroes' Feast. Doesn't that guard against poison?
Matt: You're not poisoned. You're not having toxic shock and dying right now, but you're suffocating.
Taliesin: I'm going to put my face in the water and breathe.
Matt: It's not affecting you. You're fine.
Laura: Oh, because you don't breathe.
Sam: You're already dead.
Marisha: Weirdo.
Travis: Yeah, put your face in the water and breathe.
Taliesin: I'm putting my face in the water and attempting to take a breath.
Matt: The bubbling of air there is the same fume here.
Taliesin: I'm just trying to use the water breath.
Matt: Oh, the water breath itself? Oh, with the water breathing? The water you can breathe.
Laura: Oh, great! So any time we need a breath we just breathe, okay!
Taliesin: We might start getting a little loopy if we stay out here for too long.
Travis: Vex, will you look for anything that looks like a Core Anvil? And I stick my face in.
Laura: I take a breath and I start looking for a door or any way out of this.
Taliesin: I'm going to open the light fully.
Liam: Flametongue Dagger is out so I can see the non-water portion.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 18.
Matt: 18. You go in and take a breath and you look down below, especially with the light and the lamp that's going around, you can see where this is happening, this little pool, it's another small tube that descends farther and curves away out of sight.
Laura: (gasps) Is it wide enough for all of to fit through?
Matt: Well, from what you can see before it curves off, it looks like it could probably fit everybody.
Laura: Hey! There's a tunnel down there!
Taliesin: I'm going to tilt the light into it and take a look down.
Matt: Okay. Looking down, it does; it's a curvature off, it looks like at one point there was some sort of an escape, or at least that jet that you originally found earlier? Part of it got blocked off and while the get of water continued, the opening here kind of got covered with some sort of liquid rock and it created this pocket. You can swim down there. Who knows where it leads, but it does not appear to have any sort of a forceful jet.
Sam: It's a tube? We're in one of the cow's stomachs.
Matt: Essentially.
Marisha: Control Water lasts up to ten minutes, so if we want to commit to this, I can help jettison us there.
Matt: You have to cast it again, though, because you lost concentration.
Marisha: Why?
Travis: Because you made a Wall of Stone.
Marisha: We decided early on that Wall of Stone was instantaneous. And permanent.
Matt: Permanent and concentration. Yeah, okay, I'll let you go with that.
Marisha: Because it was in Pathfinder.
Travis: Do we want to get rid of the water, though? Because that's what's allowing us to breathe.
Marisha: The water? Just happens. Us breathing water is good for 24 hours.
Sam: But if we get rid of the water, then we won't have anything to breathe.
Marisha: No, I'm going to Control Water, and I'm going to jettison us with the current.
Sam: Okay, go for it.
Laura: Let's take it a little slow because we don't know what we're coming up to, though. I don't want to jump full-force into--
Marisha: Yeah. It'll be like Lazy River.
Laura: Something like that. Lead the way, darling.
Matt: Well, how the spell works is if you maintain concentration for the whole duration, it becomes permanent.
Marisha: For the whole duration?
Matt: For the whole duration. Which is ten minutes.
Marisha: But I haven't done that because I've already jettisoned this one water, and then now I'm trying to use the remaining--
Matt: It's fine. Don't worry about it.
Laura: Let's just go in the water. I follow him. Although Percy should technically be up front because he's got light.
Matt: Okay, so Percival goes first, followed by Vax, then Vex.
Travis: Me in the middle.
Matt: Grog. Is Trinket still swimming along with you?
Laura: Trinket is behind Grog.
Matt: All right. And then that's Scanlan and Keyleth at the very end. All right. You guys dive past under the water. It curves, and you can see there's a faint light source in the distance. This curves below. It splinters downward and then curves up slightly, and that's where the light source is coming from.
Travis: Yeah, of course. Air pocket.
Liam: I'm going to go stealth.
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Travis: Do your Navy SEAL shit.
Liam: That's fine.
Travis: Come out of the water, eyes open.
Liam: 34.
Sam: 34? Jesus.
Matt: All right. You think you're pretty stealth.
Liam: I think I'm pretty stealth.
Matt: You think you're pretty stealth.
Liam: All right.
Travis: I don't like the way he said that.
Laura: I know!
Matt: Go upward?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. As you get up, you see a familiar orangeish-red glow, and as you see the surface of water above you, there's another, looks like an air pocket. You emerge. You look about, and it looks like there is another tunnel here, but there's a faint glow. It looks like there are small veins of cooling volcanic rock in this area. The tunnel continues. There's actually ground that you can walk on that continues down and curves out of the way.
Travis: The walls are cooling?
Liam: I just turn to the group and I'm going to--
Laura: Can you see by the light of the magma?
Matt: You can see fairly, with your elven vision, yeah, and with your dagger. So yeah, you begin to walk on the surface. The surface is cooled, and it's very hot in here. But not painfully so, like when you dove into the caldera itself. You walk down about ten or 15 feet and you see it's now breaking off in various directions. You can see small pockets where it closes off, areas where it looks like whatever air or gases were trapped up when parts of the volcano would expand and pressurize upward, it would trap these areas. But you see areas where liquid rock are spilling into and creating small pools. And it continues to descend, almost like a curved spiral, around the way.
Liam: So there's a walkway, but there's also lava?
Matt: Very faint trickles, and cools slowly on the floor.
Liam: I've only gone about 20 feet at this point, is that right? I am going to go around the bend. Continuing quietly.
Matt: You go around the bend, and you can hear faintly the rushing of water, muffled. You're not that far away, you gather, from spatial awareness as to where the heavy pressure of the water that was forced upward, you can faintly feel the vibration. But as you curve away it gets dimmer and dimmer, as you spiral off further away from the center of this volcano. And as it continues to spiral downward, this natural air pocket cavern, it splits again into a small opening where it's settled, faintly orange glowing, with spots of black molten rock that's slowly cooling. The path curves around the way, and it splits into two pockets of this cooling rock. And then maybe about a five-foot leap to continue downward.
Marisha: Over lava?
Matt: Your favorite.
Marisha: So bad at it.
Matt: I know.
Liam: I'm going to double back to the group.
Taliesin: I think we're already starting to make our way out.
Liam: It goes a little further, but I just didn't want to go too far on my own.
Laura: What did you see?
Liam: Just goes further. But I don't want to get separated completely, so come up a bit, and I'll go a little bit further.
Sam: Can we walk on it? Is it going to burn our little feetsies? Or do we need to fly?
Liam: I don't think so.
Laura: Up and over. Let's-- yeah. Let's go up there.
Travis: We follow Vax.
Laura: Can we cast Locate Object on the anvil? Don't you have something that sends a direct path to an object?
Marisha: Find the Path? But I think I have to have seen the object before. It would also burn my last 6th-level spell.
Liam: I could do it, but you have to be familiar with it. Being told about it doesn't count, does it?
Matt: You don't have enough information to do that, yeah. You guys all emerge from the water to gather up with Vax.
Liam: I'd like to lead them to where that jump is.
Matt: Okay. As you all take a deep breath under the water and get to the surface, you make a test breath and the air in this pocket is still poisonous and not breathable, so you guys are going to have to take a deep breath under the water and hold your breath as you make your way down that tunnel.
Laura: Oh fuck. Were there any other pockets of water along the way?
Liam: Shit. Get back in the water. And I'm going to solo go where I wasn't intending to, to see how far it is to get to the next bit of water. You said it was a jump over magma?
Matt: Yep.
Laura: Does your creepy undead brain remember how long it takes before we die if we don't breathe? Do you remember that?
Liam: I walk away from her, and I go down the hall.
Matt: All right. It's a decent jump to get over the lava. It's not a hard one, necessarily, but I want you to make an athletics check, anyway.
Liam: Ooh, better use one of my Lucks for that. That was a one. Ooh! Six.
Matt: Six.
Liam: Six. Burn, baby, burn.
Matt: Total of six?
Liam: Yeah, total of six. Already used Luck; it's done.
Marisha: Why does this always happen to us?
Travis: I don't know, but I love it.
Matt: You run and make a leap, and you're pretty sure you made it, but one foot (sizzle) right into it.
Taliesin: Is it the same foot?
Marisha: Is it the same foot?
Matt: It's the same foot.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Marisha: Yeah!
Matt: Thankfully, your armor is set to resist.
Taliesin: Okay, that's right. That was early on. Wow.
Liam: And yet Vax ain't sweating it. Not anymore.
Taliesin: It's nothing you haven't had to regrow before.
Laura: Does your Raven Queen regenerate lost footsies?
Matt: What would have been 56 damage is reduced to 28 fire damage to you. You pull out real fast. (sizzle, groan) It burns and burns and burns. Kick it off. You keep walking around the curvature, and it takes about two minutes or so of brisk travel to get around the corner where you can see another pool of warm water.
Laura: Two minutes.
Liam: So I see water and I shove my face down in it and breathe it. Who knows, with me? And I go back to where I burned my fucking foot, and I go into the earring-- I'm not going to fucking jump over that shit again-- tell them what I saw. Yeah, two minutes. So deep fucking breath. Yeah?
Laura: Ugh, two minutes.
Liam: And when you see me, run towards me and follow me.
Laura: Yeah. All right. Grog?
Travis: What?
Laura: Are you good to run and jump over some lava?
Travis: Nope.
Matt: So as you guys are aware, you can hold your breath for a number of minutes equal to one plus your constitution modifier.
Laura: (laughs) Oh no.
Travis: Awesome!
Laura: Okay, but you were on foot. If I'm on the broom, then maybe it wouldn't take as long, potentially.
Matt: You were making a careful path. If you were to continue to dash, full dash run, it would be close. You can try it.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to put Trinket in the necklace.
Matt: All right. Trinket in the necklace.
Laura: Do you want to get on the broom with me?
Taliesin: I've got the boots, so I was going to use my boots.
Laura: All right, anybody? Scanlan?
Sam: Yes, please.
Travis: It's just a thought, but I do have the big-ass jug that can make a big thing of portable water.
Laura: (gasps) Sick!
Marisha: Wait, we're waterboarding ourselves?
Travis: Well, you can breathe in that shit, right? We won't be able to see.
Taliesin: Can we fit our head in that jug?
Matt: Yeah, you can.
Taliesin: You've just got to carry the jug, and as long as we stick our head in the jug every time we need to breathe-- you're a genius! You're a genius! I will say that seven more times. We'll space them out.
Sam: We might run out of water, though, because we're breathing it in.
Travis: You're breathing it back out. You're recycling it. It'll get a little less oxygenated.
Liam: How long does a fish live in a fish tank?
Sam: You're right. We're big fish.
Liam: The biggest.
Travis: Do you want to do that?
Sam: Let's try it.
Travis: Salt water or fresh water? Or wine.
Laura: Fresh water.
Taliesin: Fresh water.
Travis: I take out the Alchemy Jug and I say, fresh water.
Matt: It fills with fresh water to the surface.
Laura: Try breathing it.
Travis: Are we underwater right now?
Taliesin: We'll take it out of the water.
Travis: Okay. I stick my head in it. Can I breathe?
Matt: Yeah, fine.
Travis: It works. It works! I'm holding it above the water.
Laura: Oh, smart.
Liam: I hear you can do this with a non-magical jug, too.
Sam: Oh yeah. We just could have carried water in a jug.
Travis: Don't downplay my special moment.
Sam: We have chalices.
Laura: We do have an extra chalice. You know what? I'm going to take the fancy chalice and-- as needed.
Taliesin: I'm going to use the breathing jug.
Matt: This is the funnest work-around. I love it.
Sam: It's a water bong?
Matt: Essentially. You guys are gravity-bonging your way through an underwater volcano. If that's not Vox Machina, I don't know what is.
Taliesin: It's how I solve so many problems in my life. It's the solution to half our problems.
Liam: We're going to try to water-bong every combat scenario for the rest of the campaign.
Travis: I was looking at it, and I was like, fresh water, vinegar, oh!
Matt: All righty. So.
Sam: Don't do drugs, everyone.
Matt: As you guys make your way around the way, through the combination of that druid spell and, strangely, Grog's ingenuity, you guys have bypassed a fairly serious situation. You make it down around the curvature of the tunnel, to where that small lava jump is. Anybody who wants to make that leap, go ahead and make an athletics check, please.
Laura: I pop Scanlan on the broom and we fly on over.
Taliesin: I activated my boots and walk.
Marisha: And I use my mantle, which I constantly forget triples my jump distance.
Matt: It does, so go ahead and make an athletics check.
Travis: 21.
Marisha: That's not great. Acrobatics?
Matt: Athletics.
Marisha: Oh, that's better. That's better. 15.
Matt: 15? Yeah. You coast over. It's like a soft Neo jump. Not quite that far, but you coast and land onto the side. Grog, what did you get?
Travis: 21.
Matt: 21. You guys all make it across that little stretch of molten rock without an issue. You continue around the way. Vex and Vax, as you guys are making heavy footfalls and making some distance, you begin to feel this (rumbling noise) rumbling in the ground beneath you.
Liam: Oh shit.
Laura: I think there's something burrowing. Or an earthquake.
Marisha: Earth elementals.
Laura: Potentially.
Marisha: Volcanic earth elementals.
Liam: Everybody hold still for a moment.
Laura: I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Dope.
Matt: I would like all of you to make a stealth check right now.
Travis: Oh, I think you barely got that in.
Matt: Barely.
Sam: It's plus ten?
Matt: Plus ten.
Sam: 31.
Taliesin: 34.
Marisha: 34.
Liam: 40!
Laura: Wow. 25.
Travis: I'm sorry, guys.
Taliesin: Oh no. Plus ten?
Travis: 16.
Sam: Oh, okay, that's above something.
Travis: I have a feeling.
Sam: What about Trinket?
Laura: Trinket's in the necklace.
Matt: The rumbling stops as you all quietly stand still. You begin to get bold, to take a few more very faint steps on the ground. The rumbling continues and gets louder and louder.
Laura: (whispers) I get my bow ready.
Matt: All right. I'm going to go to break.
Travis: Oh! You fucking didn't!
Matt: I'm hungry. All right. Yeah. So we'll pick up from that rumbling here at the end of the break. We'll see you guys back here in a moment. We have quite the giveaway today. We have a spalted tamarind complete dice tower system. Three pieces from our friends at Wyrmwood. This is actually, this is Percival's wood type. It's nice, with a leather interior from our friends at Wyrmwood. One lucky winner's going to get this. To enter this, find your way to the Twitch chat. And when requested during the break, go ahead and enter the word "volcano." That will put you in the entry. We'll come back with a winner in a minute. We're going to go ahead and have a quick break with some food, and we'll see you here in a minute, guys! [break]
Matt: And welcome back to Critical Role.
Travis: That was a barrage.
Matt: Yeah, that was making up for the beginning of the game. We have a winner. In the chat, we have johnny2x40 as the winner. Congratulations, johnny2x40. Danoba will contact you shortly to get your information, and we'll get that shipped out to you ASAP, signed by the cast. Congratulations.
Liam: The fuck was that?
Marisha: I loved it so much.
Taliesin: That's amazing.
Matt: All right. So as the rumbling continues to grow and swell, you all hold yourselves in place. (rumbling, crashing) You hear the crumbling and crashing of stone and rock, as from the side of the hallway, right next to where Grog is standing, maybe about a foot and a half in front of him, you watch some large, pointed object pierce through the wall, maybe about nine feet tall or so, go (explosion) out, sending dust and rock spilling out, and there's a faint orange glow from some smooth, armored head to some large creature with a toothy mouth that opens up and (chomping) as it bites down, you see rows and rows of teeth that are glowing orange, as bits of molten rock are spilling out the sides of the mouth.
Marisha: It's like 2006's The Core!
Matt: Yeah. I hope it's better than that. You recognize the shape of the front, especially you, Percival, as you spent some time with a creature of a similar shape.
Laura: Oh, is it a worm? A purple worm?
Matt: No, because it has two, big. muscular, trunk-like arms, as it (crash crash) out in front, but it has no eyes. It has the solid, armored front, and heated edges where the plates meet. It seems to be some sort of elemental-infused or variant of the bulette that you encountered before. And as it breaks through and stops, mere inches from Grog-- turn that thing off.
Liam: It talks! It's a sentient bulette!
Sam: Happy Birthday.
Matt: (snarls) Across the way, you hear a low rumble again. (snarls) It stomps the ground. And you watch, from one of the other walls, (explosion) jutting from it, a smaller version. And a second emerges. (explosion) Two children. They both emerge, going (snarls). As you're all standing there, holding perfectly still.
Sam: They can't see us. We'll stand still and we'll be fine, right?
Marisha: Jurassic Park rules.
Matt: (sniffs)
Laura: Oh no!
Liam: We could attack them.
Laura: There's three of them!
Matt: One of them turns around, and starts walking slowly towards the direction that Grog is. The large mother. And turns, Grog, and you have to lean back as the nose sweeps past, and is facing right in your direction. You can see these large holes in the front of its armored snout go (sniffing). The mouth slightly cracks open and curls back into what you could almost imagine to be a grin.
Travis: Can I quietly go into a rage? (laughter)
Taliesin: You are not my parents.
Matt: Well, as none of you have done anything at this point in time, I need you all to roll initiative.
Liam: See, that's what it was! That's what it was!
Travis: I heard you saying it, too.
Laura: You should have just done it!
Marisha: Do what?
Liam: Don't worry about it.
Laura: No!
Taliesin: Goddamnit. No.
Liam: Every time. Every time I do it!
Marisha: Oh, your sneak attack?
Liam: Yes. Fuckers.
Matt: So Grog, who was stopped here, was the last to leap. Keyleth made it all the way over here.
Laura: Trinket's in the necklace. We were on the broom.
Matt: Broom over here.
Marisha: Might still be able to do it.
Matt: Vax. Where were you? You were stealthed.
Liam: I was near the lead.
Matt: So you would be over here, stealthing behind this rock.
Sam: What a great board!
Laura: This is really cool. Oh god, it's huge! Grog! Little baby bulette.
Travis: It's huge.
Laura: Do we remember what its weaknesses were?
Marisha: I know it takes half damage, I think, to non-magical physical attacks. He's got heavily armored skin. Other than that, I don't know.
Sam: Ooh! Did a new light just pop on? And another light? For a red lava effect in my eyes?
Matt: Into your eyes, Sam. That's why I do this. All right, so initiative order. 25 to 20?
Laura: Oh, 20.
Matt: 20 to 15?
Liam: 17.
Travis: 19.
Sam: 18!
Laura: Does it realize that anybody but Grog is there?
Matt: You don't know.
Laura: We could have, potentially.
Matt: All right. And you're 17, you said?
Liam: 17.
Matt: All right.
Sam: Here we go. This is going to be fun.
Matt: All right. 15 to ten?
Marisha: 13.
Taliesin: 12. My lowest possible initiative.
Marisha: Did you roll a one?
Taliesin: I rolled a one.
Matt: All righty. So top of the round, as all of them seem to have shifted in the direction of Grog, who is now quietly raging. Vex, you're up first. What do you want to do?
Laura: Oh god. I'm going to try to hit it with a Lightning Arrow.
Matt: Which one?
Laura: What do you mean?
Travis: What animal?
Liam: There's the mama and two babies.
Laura: I'm going to try to hit the one that's breathing on Grog.
Matt: All righty. So go ahead and make your attacks.
Travis: Yeah, provoke the thing with its teeth closest to me. I'm just fucking with you.
Laura: But it knows you're there! Maybe it doesn't know I'm there! Plus I get a sneak attack on it, because you're right next to it.
Matt: It's true.
Laura: And I'm going to Hunter's Mark it!
Matt: Look at that!
Laura: (laughs) I say!
Matt: She says to you!
Laura: 25!
Matt: 25 hits.
Laura: Lovely. So if that was a 3rd-level Lightning Arrow, then that means I get 3d8 lightning damage in addition to my regular damage, or is it just 3d8 lightning damage? Wait. Roll the attack as normal, the target takes 4d8 lightning damage on a hit. Oh, and every creature within ten feet makes a dexterity saving throw. Okay. If I cast it at 4th-level, so no, it's just 3rd-level.
Matt: So it's 4d8 lightning damage. So you made the attack roll. It hit. So it takes that.
Laura: Wow. Really? Nine plus--
Matt: Grog, make a dexterity saving throw, please.
Travis: Thank you. I have advantage on those, but I won't need it because that was a 19.
Laura: 15. It doesn't actually do my regular arrow attack damage? It's just-- wow. My spells are useless compared to my regular attacks.
Travis: 21.
Laura: 15 damage.
Matt: All right. So 15 damage. And then 2d8 to Grog. Roll 2d8. And you take half that because you made your save.
Travis: 19. It's right on the paper. Negative two. Sorry.
Laura: You still made your save.
Matt: Yeah. What's the damage?
Laura: Five.
Matt: Five damage to you, Grog.
Travis: Thank you.
Matt: Five total, or that's halved?
Laura: That's five total.
Matt: All right, you take two points of lightning damage. Not too bad.
Laura: I'm going to try to hit it again, then.
Matt: Lightning Arrow-- well, no. Interesting point of order, Lightning Arrow is a bonus action.
Laura: Oh, and I did Hunter's Mark.
Matt: So no Hunter's Mark.
Laura: Oh, so I did Hunter's Mark-- no. Oh. I am never going to do spell attacks ever again. They're worthless for me.
Matt: So no Hunter's Mark, but you hit it with the Lightning Arrow. Next round you can worry about that.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: That's your first attack. You have your second attack.
Laura: Okay, then I'm going to attack it with a regular-ass arrow that does more damage, probably-- natural 20-- than a fucking Lightning Arrow.
Matt: You did not do your sneak attack damage last round, so if you wanted to do sneak attack damage on this, you can.
Laura: Okay. Lovely.
Matt: Which means you also double the sneak attack damage.
Laura: Sweet. That's seven. 14 plus eight is 22, 24, plus lightning damage. 24 plus five is 29 damage with a regular arrow.
Matt: And that's with the additional sneak attack?
Laura: Yes. No, I get two sneak attacks! Plus another four. 29 plus four. 33.
Marisha: Sneak attack that bitch!
Matt: 33 points of damage to it.
Travis: Do I take that, too?
Laura: No, that's regular.
Matt: As you release the Lightning Arrow, it slams into it. (growling) The look shoots in the direction where it came from, and as it opens up its snout to smell, you fire a second arrow into its mouth, and it starts writhing in place as it does. It shakes, and you feel the ground quake in the presence, and a few rocks (impacts) from the ceiling and the children join the wail, and they all turn in your direction. You going to do anything else on your turn?
Laura: Can I get on my broom?
Matt: Yeah, you get on your broom?
Laura: I get on my broom.
Matt: That's all you do? All righty! Grog, you're up.
Travis: Oh, I am, huh?
Matt: At the beginning of your turn, the heat emanating from this bulette that's right next to you is rather intense. You immediately suffer-- from proximity to its searing body-- 11 points of fire damage.
Laura: How much?
Marisha: 11 points. That's not bad, yeah.
Laura: Are these monsters or beasts?
Matt: These are considered monstrosities.
Travis: How tall is the area that we're standing in?
Matt: The top of the cavern would be about, maybe, ten feet. Ten to 12 feet.
Travis: Ten to 12 feet? Yeah, I'm going to make both of my attacks at Mama Bear. Yeah, because I've got to move. Either I move and it senses the non-stealthy-- yeah, fuck it, I'm just going to take both of my Bloodaxe attacks at it with the first one Great Weapon Master. Not reckless. 21?
Matt: 21 hits.
Travis: Just barely? Okay. That's awesome. 26... 36 points of damage?
Matt: 36 points of damage on that first hit? Not bad. The axe cracks into the side of its body, and you see the armor crack a little bit where it hits. You pull the axe free, you can see the blood pour out. As it spills and hits the ground, (sizzle) you can see the actual blood in their body is superheated as well.
Travis: Ooh, that's a problem. Okay. They're like xenomorphs. I'll take the second strike, as well. Great Weapon Master, not reckless.
Matt: Okay, not reckless.
Travis: That's shit. That's going to miss, I think. Yeah. 20?
Matt: 20 hits.
Travis: Oh, really?
Taliesin: We're learning, we're learning things.
Travis: 15. Because I said Great Weapon Master, it's minus five.
Matt: You did. That misses.
Taliesin: Somewhere between 15 and 20.
Matt: This is this one time where you do swing and it hits, but the angle of the axe blade hits the edge of its head plate armor, and scrapes off the top with a shower of sparks off to the side. No damage.
Travis: Can I use my bonus action to rage or not?
Matt: Well, yeah, you were beginning to quietly rage.
Travis: Fair enough. Ends my turn.
Laura: You want to move?
Travis: No! I'm right next to it.
Matt: Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Boy, man. I don't know what these things can do. I will step forward a little bit. Super tanky.
Matt: Ten feet? Five feet?
Sam: That's good enough for now. No, keep going.
Laura: There's lava! Careful!
Sam: Thanks. I will inspire Grog by singing the customary birthday song of his people, which goes like this, (singing) Happy happy happy, happy happy happy-- they're a very simple people-- happy happy happy happy. (groans) (laughter)
Travis: You sang that better than my mother! Did I have a mom?
Sam: And then as practice, I'm going to become my beautiful angel self and transform into a naked planetar.
Marisha: Oh shit. Going planetar.
Sam: I assume I lose everything. I lose my Heroes' Feast--
Laura: Why would you?
Sam: Because I'm a different creature.
Laura: So? It's still in your blood.
Sam: I don't think so.
Marisha: Is this True Polymorph?
Sam: Yes.
Taliesin: Maybe you get it back when you turn back.
Marisha: Generally, it'll say. Because Shapechange, you absorb your armor.
Sam: Do you happen to have a planetar figurine?
Matt: That's what I'm checking. I thought I had one prepared.
Sam: Oh my god. Guys. Magic  the Gathering Puzzle Quest. Did I mention you can find out more at bit.ly/MagicRole?
Laura: You did, actually!
Sam: Capital M, capital R on that, by the way, guys. Visit it right now. Friends of the show. They need your support.
Laura: That's right.
Marisha: You know those first generation Black Lotus cards can go for $30,000, depending on their condition.
Taliesin: Is it the alpha style with the black border?
Marisha: Yep. Banned cards.
Sam: Matt is really looking for this thing. In the meantime, let me tell you some other amazing Magic: The Gathering cards. I've got Time Twister, Jace the Mind Sculptor--
Taliesin: I've actually performed the Jace the Mind Sculptor. It takes three friends to really pull it off.
Sam: Naked Singularity. Not a sexual position.
Matt: We'll say for the purposes of this, because it is the same size as a large creature, right?
Sam: It is.
Matt: We will use good old Doty as the current size of your planetar.
Liam: I can touch my miniature! Whoa!
Matt: You need to be there, because otherwise you'd be stepping in the lava.
Sam: Okay, thanks.
Matt: So that's it?
Sam: I think that's all I can do.
Matt: You can continue to move, if you want.
Sam: Oh, that's interesting. As that guy, can I move more?
Matt: Well, you've moved maybe 15 feet. I'd say you probably have, at his flying speed, maybe a third of his fly speed left.
Sam: That's another 40 feet.
Matt: (chuckles) So there is that.
Sam: All right. Well, then you guys got this well in hand. I'm going to fly to the other guy. Is he going to get an attack on me?
Matt: This guy here?
Sam: Yeah. As I fly up high?
Matt: You fly to him and you're gliding above right now.
Sam: No, I'm going to go to the furthest guy.
Matt: Over here? (gliding noises) Okay. You're currently floating above the lava. It's not affecting you as you (whoosh) fly by. Because you're flying, no, I will say the mom bulette does not notice you pass. It does not get an attack of opportunity.
Sam: (whispering) I'm the Crow.
Matt: Essentially. All right, that ends your turn. Vax.
Liam: Click the boots. Hunter's Mark on mama. So all that's left is dagger, dagger, dagger, so I'm going to do sharpshooter throws with the three daggers that are left.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Am I within 60 feet? I think I am. All right, so negative five on attacks. The first one is total shit. The second one is 17?
Matt: 17 does not hit. (dagger ricochets) Ricochets off.
Liam: 23 on the last.
Matt: That does hit.
Liam: Okay, because Grog is right there, it is sneak attack? (sighs) One, this is nine, plus that is ten, plus this. 13, 18, 24, 30, 33, 35, 36, 37. And because it was a sharpshooter attack, it's 47.
Matt: Oof. Nice. Great, so that one, seeing the glow of the slight crack in the armor that Grog had left, the dagger disappears inside the slight gap, and you see this (spurt) of super hot, thick, viscous blood spill out and hit the side of the rock and then cool and darken as it does across the side of the cavern wall.
Liam: And then for movement, watch this shit right here, folks. (counting) 40, because I'm hasted, 45, 50, 55.
Matt: There you go.
Sam: Wow.
Laura: Wow.
Liam: I did it my fucking self!
Matt: All right, that ends your turn?
Laura: Did it feel weird to have somebody else moving the people?
Matt: No, it felt awesome. I didn't have to do a damn thing. All right.
Liam: Oh, and Hunter's Mark!
Matt: Yes, the Hunter's Mark damage.
Liam: Six!
Matt: That's an additional six damage. All right, infuriated, it's now starting to stomp in the middle, and as it's hitting, the lava's starting to splash up around it. The babies! This one right here is only going to make a bite attack right now. It can't make a leap because you're too close to it. But as you rush towards it, it seems to sense your presence, and the movement of the wings (wing flap) keeping you aloft. And the baby's going to (snapping) and lash out towards you. That is 18.
Sam: Does not hit.
Matt: Does not hit. As it snaps out towards you, its saliva seeming to spray superheated liquid (saliva spray) across. Does not attack you at all. (laughter)
Taliesin: Well that got GIF'ed.
Liam: Dr. Manhattan, in the house!
Matt: The other baby watches you go running past. It's going to go ahead and make a Deadly Leap. 15 (landing) on you. (whoosh) That brings it here.
Laura: Oh shit!
Liam: He's dead.
Matt: If that was the case, half you guys would've been dead a long time ago. All right, I need you to make a strength or dexterity saving throw, your choice.
Liam: I'll do dexterity at advantage because of the boots, so that is a 27.
Matt: 27, okay. So you're not knocked prone, but you do take-- let's see here. 19 points of damage, bludgeoning and slashing. You are pushed five feet out of its space.
Liam: What was the total on that, Matt?
Laura: 19.
Matt: All righty. That's the two babies' turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. The battlefield changed a little bit, so instead, can I do a Chain Lightning out of the staff and hit all three of those motherfuckers? Starting with the big mama and branching off to the two other dudes?
Matt: I could say you could do that, yeah.
Marisha: Yeah, I do that.
Matt: All righty.
Marisha: That's 10d8. And it's a dex? I think it's a dexterity saving throw, and it's 10d8. One, two, three, four, five. Does anyone want to lend me their d8s?
Laura: How many? I've got five here.
Marisha: You have five there? Okay, okay, okay. A little Ashley Johnson "Okay, okay, okay."
Liam: (imitating Ashley) Yeah!
Marisha: (imitating Ashley) Yeah!
Matt: Nope, nope, and nope. No one makes their save. This big, hulking thing.
Marisha: Okay, I get to reroll ones because I'm a badass.
Liam: You got a bunch, too.
Marisha: Yes, I did.
Marisha: No, that's a ten. Ooh, that's good. Okay, okay, five, four and four is eight, so that brings us to 13, another-- wait, four and four and eight--
Laura: 17.
Marisha: That was right, right?
Laura: Yes, so you're at 17 now.
Marisha: 17 plus another four is 21, plus another five is 26, plus another four is 30, plus another six is 36, plus another 16 total. So 36 plus 16 is 52.
Matt: 52 points of damage?
Laura: You've got another one here.
Marisha: Oh, 52 plus another seven, so 59.
Matt: 59 damage against all three of them. So as you stand in the middle and watch one of them leap past and pounce onto your lover as he's pushed out of the way, you see Grog now facing off with this giant gnashing mouth that is spilling forth super-hot liquid, the lava glowing in the distance. You're having flashbacks to the last time you dealt with lava. You concentrate for a second and release the blast of energy as it arcs off, (explosions) slamming into each of them. You see them shake and quiver, their muscles tensing as they shriek in the middle of the cavern. (shrieks) They stagger backward. Hurt, but seemingly still holding on. All right, Percy, your turn.
Taliesin: I'm going to activate Silence. So that's up. Charge Diplomacy. I'm going to give it a little rev with my bonus action, and I'm going to-- oh wow, can I actually reach? I can't quite reach, but I can get close. I'm going to head against that wall and start climbing up that wall.
Laura: Right here?
Taliesin: Yeah, up there. Just put me up there. Yeah, there we go.
Matt: Okay. Is that all you're going to do with your turn?
Taliesin: That's my action, my bonus action, and my movement.
Matt: All right, that's your turn. All right, now it's the mama bulette's turn. Mama bulette has been facing Grog this whole time, after taking the dagger and watching you run past, seeming ready to leap, but with you still right in front of it, she'll attack you. That is a natural 18. This is important. So that's a total of 31 to hit.
Travis: Let me check-- yeah.
Matt: So that's 45 points of piercing damage, halved. We'll say 22, plus 13 points of fire damage... and you are swallowed. On an attack roll of an 18 to 20, it swallows the target. And literally, I rolled a natural 18.
Taliesin: What happens if you--
Travis: It's always me! (laughing) It's always me.
Matt: Apparently, man.
Taliesin: What happens if you Titanstone-- never mind. I'm going to find out.
Travis: We've done this before. I'm well-versed.
Matt: You are blinded and restrained, currently.
Travis: Blinded and restrained.
Matt: It now begins to (thudding) go right up into melee range with Keyleth, who blasted it with the Chain Lightning before. That brings us to the top of the round. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to Hunter's Mark it! And then I'm going to attack it with an arrow.
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: (old woman voice) Bramble Shot!
Matt: How'd that go again?
Laura: (old woman voice) Bramble Shot! (normal voice) 25! Oh! Can I do sharpshooter and do minus five to hit, plus ten to attack?
Matt: Generally, you have to decide that before you roll your attack. You can't just add it on like, oh, I rolled well! I'll say no, not for that first attack. You can for your second.
Laura: This one is a Bramble Shot and it's a 25 to hit.
Matt: That does hit.
Laura: Okay, cool. Five plus eight is 13, 14, 15. 15 plus sneak attack and lightning damage. 15, 19, 23, 25, and then 4d8 piercing damage. 32.
Matt: All right. 32 points.
Laura: And then he has to make a strength saving throw.
Matt: That is a 20.
Laura: Then he succeeds.
Matt: As the arrow slams into the side, the brambles reach around, and you watch as these thorny vines that wrap around the body begin to blacken and burst into flame. By the proximity, the brambles begin to burn to cinders and then break off the body as it storms forward.
Laura: I attack him again. This time I'm going to try as a sharpshooter!
Matt: Do it!
Laura: Okay!
Matt: You're up next, Grog.
Laura: Natural 20!
Matt: Holy shit! That'll hit.
Laura: And it's a Bramble Shot. Do I have to say that before, too? Motherfucker.
Matt: Well, Bramble Shot gets to see if it hits or not. It's not lost if you missed. If you hit, you can say Bramble Shot.
Laura: So yeah!
Matt: Same way that Divine Smite can be done.
Laura: Okay, cool! All right! Right. I'm going to roll all my dice, and then double that, then add my extra things. How about that?
Matt: Do that. That's usually how you're supposed to do it.
Laura: All right, Matt. Okay, so 11, 14, 20, 23, 25, 50. That's easy. 58, 60.
Matt: 60 points of damage with one shot! And secondary saving throw.
Laura: Oh, plus ten because it was sharpshooter. 70!
Matt: 70 points of damage with a single arrow! You didn't add your sneak attack damage a second time, did you? Okay, good. That is nasty. It rolled a natural 16 plus six for its strength saving throw, so it's not affected by the bramble. However, it is looking rough. The second arrow hits the side and you watch as it streaks, pieces of the armor fall off to the side. You can see the striations of its muscle, and where the muscle tissue is, it's dark, but at the seams it's glowing orange.
Laura: I didn't add the Hunter's Mark damage. Well, only extra two damage for that.
Matt: There you go, extra two damage. But now it's bleeding everywhere. Wherever it's walking, you can see it thrashing about. It's spilling off this heated liquid that's pouring out of its wounds. Does that end your turn?
Laura: No, I'm going to move on my broom so he doesn't know I'm there. I'm going to fly to here.
Matt: Okay! That ends your turn. Grog, you're up. First things first, at the start of your turn, because you are swallowed by the mom, you suffer 42 points of fire damage. Oh, it has to make a constitution saving throw to see if it spits him up first, actually, because you did more than 40 points of damage. That is a 22. Yeah, it's fine. Wait, no, it's 25 DC. No, it does not! You do not take the damage because she did enough damage with that crit hit arrow that it vomits you up. You are prone.
Laura: Happy birthday!
Travis: Thank you!
Matt: That would have been a good 42 points of damage.
Marisha: Grog gets vomited up in front of me?
Matt: Yep! (sizzling) There's steam.
Travis: Every fucking time. Hi!
Marisha: You smell like shit.
Matt: Grog, it's your turn.
Travis: I'd like to stand up.
Matt: All right.
Sam: Jump into its throat.
Taliesin: Jump back in.
Travis: I would like to smash my Titanstone Knuckles together and cast Enlarge on myself. Gotta get some fire resistance because good god.
Marisha: Big Grog!
Laura: Whoa, what is that?
Marisha: He's swole.
Laura: I don't think we've seen this.
Matt: That's been it every time.
Travis: Yeah, every time.
Laura: But we haven't seen it! Haven't seen it up close. Oh, Grog is scary as fuck! I'm sorry; you're scary! Okay.
Travis: Can I do reckless, Great Weapon Master?
Matt: Yes, you may.
Taliesin: That's something Travis would say.
Laura: Put me down?
Taliesin: It's something Travis would say.
Travis: 26?
Matt: Yeah, that hits.
Travis: Nice. 37 on the first.
Matt: How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Travis: (singing) Happy happy (war cry).
Taliesin: Happy birthday.
Matt: After it finishes vomiting you up and you get off the ground, still feeling the sizzling of its salivary liquid on your body, you sing this song to yourself as it rights itself. Its mouth opens once more. You bring the axe down right above its head. You crack the center of its armored plate. The top of its head caves in and you watch as the eyes go dull and the body collapses and falls to the ground, unmoving. Its body is still there, though, because it's very big. It only loses about two feet of height as it collapses, and it's still blocking a large portion of that hallway right now. That's your first hit. You still have half of your movement, still, because you used half of it to get up from prone.
Travis: Should I try and push him out of the way?
Laura: Just vault over it.
Travis: Yep, I'm going to (leaping noise) over the side, hardcore parkour. One-handed.
Sam: Duke boys, sliding over the hood of the car?
Matt: Using your boots, or just making an athletics check as part of your movement?
Travis: Yeah, let's use the Boots of Feral Leaping.
Matt: Go ahead and make your athletics check.
Travis: That's going to be a 26. 27. Towards you. Towards his left. Yep. And I'll move up.
Matt: You have 25 more feet.
Travis: I do, don't I?
Matt: You can use your piece. Look at that!
Travis: Can I get around here on the ground?
Matt: Yeah, you could. You can make an acrobatics check to see if you can avoid the lava as you do that.
Travis: Yeah, I want to!
Matt: All right, make an acrobatics, not athletics.
Travis: Acrobatics. 16.
Matt: 16? You just barely make it around that corner, curling around. Yeah, you don't go foot-first in the lava, like somebody else did earlier.
Marisha: I'm picturing Grog being like (intense grunting, careful inching, intense grunting).
Matt: That's about where you can get to.
Travis: I'm right there, yeah.
Matt: That's the end of your turn, Grog. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: As my holy self, imbued with the holy power of whatever I am, I float up a bit, draw my greatsword that I always use to attack because I'm awesome and bring it down real hard on the head of the thing.
Matt: Go ahead and roll for an attack.
Laura: Are you naked with a sword hanging from your hip?
Liam: He's hitting it with his dick.
Sam: No, I'm naked with a sword. I've got a belt. I'm naked with a belt.
Marisha: He's Mr. November.
Sam: That is 21.
Matt: 21 hits. The babies don't have quite as hard armor. As you bring the greatsword down, you strike with a large swipe of bright, divine radiant energy. As it slams into the top of its head, it explodes with radiant power.
Sam: Do I roll, or do I use these stats?
Matt: You roll damage. The stats are for me. 4d6 plus seven slashing.
Sam: Seven, 12, 18 plus seven is 25. Plus I need 5d8.
Marisha: Oh yeah! Use mine! They just did very good.
Matt: Yeah, dude. Planetar form isn't messing around.
Laura: He didn't shake them, you just put them on down. That was the shadiest roll ever. If you did that in Vegas, they'd be like, "No."
Travis: The pit boss over here disapproves.
Sam: Plus 14. So that's 39, right?
Matt: 39, yes.
Sam: On my first attack.
Matt: So first off, I forgot earlier. Grog, you did take another seven points of fire damage from being in the proximity of the corpse, which is still emanating heat, by the way.
Travis: Halved, because I have resistance from the enlargement now.
Matt: Correct. Well, at the top of your turn, you got that, because you did not enlarge inside. And you also, as your planetar form, did take ten points of fire damage in your proximity to that one there, as well, so mark that. However, you, with that first strike, slam down and cleave the head in half. You watch as the baby's head (gravelly shriek). It had taken 49 damage before from her Chain Lightning. So with that second hit, (whack) it (gurgles) and falls to the ground, no longer moving. There is only one currently living child on the battlefield.
Sam: All right. Well, then I'll say a silent prayer for the fallen and then fly backwards super fast to the other one (whoosh) and attack again!
Laura: Maybe you can make it a pet.
Sam: Oh. 18.
Matt: 18 still hits.
Sam: Hey! All right. Look at all these crazy things. 12 plus-- that's not very good. 12 plus all those.
Matt: That was 12 plus seven?
Sam: That's right. 19.
Matt: So 19 damage.
Sam: (counting) 19. Whatever I just said. Is that 19 plus 19?
Matt: 19 plus 19.
Sam: 34?
Matt: 38 damage. That kills it, yeah. So you hack one down, dart across the way with your blade screaming in the air. It actually cuts through the rock as it sparks across the ceiling. With what little space you have, your wings open, slam down on the second child and watch as its armored body cracks open. The radiant blast expands and bursts when the blade is actually dug a few inches into its form, causing you to destroy it from the inside of its armored shell. You watch as its body inflates for a second, then falls limp as smoke begins to pour from its wounds. So with that, you guys have wiped out the current danger on the battlefield.
Sam: I feel like there's more coming.
Laura: No, that was it.
Travis: We're just traumatized.
Laura: The Core Anvil is going to float up from the magma.
Marisha: It's so hot.
Taliesin: That's a complicated tray. (laughter)
Travis: As he herniates a disc.
Matt: Yeah. I pulled my leg earlier this week, so moving up and down sucks. So as you sit there in the silence there for a moment, just hearing the occasional (plopping) with the nearby lava that fills the nearby hallway, you don't feel any further rumbling. There's just the heat emanating from the corpses of these three magma bullettes. What do you do?
Travis: Can I look around for anything that resembles an anvil or a shelf or something that one might wackadoodle on?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: Nice. Watch me knock this out of the park.
Matt: I'd say more of a perception check for this. This is less of searching for details.
Travis: That's better. Still shitty. 11.
Matt: The pathway still continues to descend and curve around, but that's it.
Travis: The pathway still continues to descend around.
Laura: Wow. Very observant of you, Grog.
Marisha: Descended around.
Travis: What?
Marisha: Copy that.
Laura: Can we see now because of all the glow coming from-- does magma glow?
Matt: Most of you, aside from Percival, can see decently in low light, anyway, or have darkvision.
Taliesin: It's only been about 25 seconds, but we do eventually have to breathe.
Laura: Oh. I'll use my chalice.
Marisha: Oh yeah. Pass the jug.
Sam: What about me?
Matt: You, as a planetar, let's see here.
Sam: I think I'm dying.
Laura: What? Why?
Sam: I don't know. I think I probably need air.
Matt: Well, you have a pretty high con bonus. You could hold your breath for seven minutes.
Sam: I'll do that. See how I fare.
Laura: Do you still have Heroes' Feast?
Sam: No.
Marisha: No, you do.
Sam: I don't think I do. I'm a new body.
Marisha: No. True Polymorph, you absorb your gear and you don't benefit from it, but it doesn't say anything about you not benefiting from--
Matt: Previous spells and bonuses. That's an interesting point.
Taliesin: The soul is imbued with Heroes' Feast, not the body.
Marisha: Correct.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Interesting.
Taliesin: See, it's all there. (laughter)
Liam: But we're along the path to the water that I saw.
Marisha: The gear melds into the new form. The creature cannot activate, use, wield, or otherwise benefit from any of its equipment, but it doesn't say anything else other than equipment.
Sam: Thank you, Lindsay Lohan.
Marisha: You're very welcome.
Matt: I'll allow it.
Sam: I still can't breathe.
Matt: You still have the same effect earlier that she put on you, so you still have the water breathing.
Sam: Oh! So I can breathe some water. All right, cool.
Matt: You're flying in here with the small space you have. Being a large creature, the fact that you even flew across-- you were only a few inches off the ground as you darted over. It's only about ten to 12 feet, and you're maybe nine feet tall.
Laura: You're 12 feet tall, so you're hitting the ceiling?
Taliesin: I'm going to start peering around the corner with the flashlight.
Liam: We're under two minutes away from the water I previously made it up to and didn't go into, correct?
Matt: Correct. You're maybe 40 seconds away from it.
Taliesin: I'm going to head that way.
Matt: You guys dart around the corner and follow the next pool. You have your means of passing water around, keeping yourselves viable. The path continues to curve in a haphazard spiral. It curves around and you watch as it passes, evens out, and then goes into a fairly steep decline, a 45-degree decline.
Laura: Should I try flying down there with the broom?
Liam: We're 30 seconds away from the water. I've already gone this way and come back to you guys. Unless something has jumped in the hole while I was gone in that time, I've already covered this ground.
Matt: This is further than you covered. There's the pool of water you saw, and if you continue around that way, you can see it curve as you glance around and it descends in a steady decline.
Taliesin: The pool of water is just a pool of water.
Matt: It's a small, little pit.
Laura: I'm going to recast Pass Without a Trace on all of us, P.S.
Taliesin: I can follow you down there, too, because I've got my boots on.
Marisha: Do the two twins want to scout?
Matt: The pool of water, by the way, as you glance down and look past the surface, it does have a cylindrical tube that is feeding the liquid into it, but it's much smaller. It gets to that big of a pinching point before it vanishes out of sight.
Liam: Of your hands?
Matt: Of the pool. Continuing down the path of the tunnel, as it curves around and goes into the decline, it continues and maintains its width of about 15 to 20 feet on either side. You glance down the decline, and there's a portion of the ground that opens up and glowing molten rock slowly drips and dribbles down for about 40 or 50 feet.
Sam: I'm going to cast Detect Evil and then wordlessly speak to you all.
Laura: Oh, in our brains? I like it.
Sam: I say  Brothers and sisters. Allow me to guide us by the spirits of my religious faith down into the depths of this hell place.
Liam: While he's talking, I turn to my sister and go--
Laura: Are you still you, Scanlan, just in another body?
Sam: Yes, my child. Inside.
Travis: Boners and wangs.
Laura: It's weird that you're nine feet tall, but your penis is still a cube.
Sam: That's by choice. (laughter)
Sam: So you can recognize me if I die in a fight and you have to go to a lab and identify the body, you'll be like (fake crying) oh, it's him!
Liam: And they shall know him by his cube.
Laura: Sorry. Yes. Lead the way.
Matt: You glide down your own way. The air is extremely warm as it passes by you. Holding your breath at this point, because you are not near any source of water, it looks like, and you're not carrying one with you. You glide down, rapid speed past the lava, which eventually comes and cools in a clump, a small mound where it seems a recent hole punched out of and began to dribble down. It's been cooling and causing this extra layer on the tunnel. Everything here seems to be in this weird state of flux. You continue past it, and it drops into a tunnel below, maybe about 20 or 30 feet wide. Descends downward.
Sam: Straight down?
Matt: Straight down.
Sam: I'll go down a bit.
Matt: You descend about 30 or 40 feet. This cylinder-like tunnel comes to a halt; it stops.
Sam: Am I detecting any evil?
Matt: You are not detecting any evil, no. Do you have darkvision in this form?
Sam: I don't know! Where does it say?
Matt: It says truesight. You don't have darkvision; you have everything vision.
Taliesin: Predator vision.
Sam: I can also speak every language!
Matt: Given that case, as soon as you land, you look up and you can see across the rock here, there is one portion of the wall that is smoother than the rest in a concave perfect square across the opposite side. You can see faint runes or glyphs that are pressed into the stone, like part of it has been untouched for quite some time.
Sam: Is there writing or is it just symbols?
Matt: Because you can read any language, right?
Sam: It says languages  all.
Matt: Yeah. Okay.
Taliesin: This is the most irritated I've ever seen Matt.
Liam: This is because of the planetar, not Ioun? Planetar. This is how you must stay always.
Sam: I agree.
Matt: Glancing at the glyphs here, there are roots of magical, arcane glyphs here, but whatever enchantment there was here is very faint. It's more about the message or image that is set here. It is an exit seal. It is a final word of those that utilized the space within. It translates to, "Here the Crafter's Halls lay dark, the means of making the World Ender gone. Allhammer protect us all."
Sam: Allhammer. Wow. I don't know.
Matt: The Allhammer. Make a religion check.
Laura: The Allhammer was--
Travis: You're not there.
Sam: Looking. Religion. I don't know. 11 plus I don't know.
Matt: Recalling that information, you have this information in your mind, I'll say. As long as you didn't roll a one.
Liam: You don't remember it, but you remember it.
Matt: The Allhammer is one of the prime gods of family, craft, and construction of fine, important things. It is the patron saint of all craftsmen, blacksmiths, forgemasters, artisans, and from the information you received from Ioun, the creator of and last user of the Core Anvil.
Marisha: So is it "the Allhammer lies beyond"? "Is dark"?
Matt: It was an exit phrase placed on this door by the last person who was in this.
Marisha: Here the Crafter's Hall remains dark, the Allhammer--
Laura: Watch over us.
Marisha: Watch over us. Something about watching over us. Yeah, validate free parking.
Taliesin: Objects in hammer are closer than they appear.
Sam: I'll fly back and report to the rest in my pristine body. My pristine, hairless body. And that is what I saw.
Laura: That was all in our heads?
Sam: Yes.
Travis: I think that's what we're looking for, right?
Laura: Yeah, let's go.
Liam: It was a flight down, yeah?
Sam: Hold on one second. (blowing water bubbles) (laughter)
Sam: I'm back to being pristine.
Matt: Just so everyone here understands, imagine between most conversations, there's somebody doing that into a small jar of water.
Sam: (blowing water bubbles) And it's all cloudy now from everybody.
Laura: How often can you re-up that jar? Oh god, it's nasty water.
Liam: You're motorboating a gravy bowl.
Sam: It's like a horse trough. There's hair.
Matt: It is getting a little thick. (laughter)
Matt: Oh god.
Laura: Should we head down there? Did it seem like you could pass through that door?
Sam: Oh, I didn't try the door.
Laura: You didn't try to get through it?
Sam: Sorry!
Laura: It's all right. We can find a way. It's just a door.
Sam: It's just a door; we'll be fine.
Travis: Yeah, we're great entering doors. Great history with doors. Let's go.
Matt: Who's doing what to get down there?
Taliesin: I'm walking down there.
Matt: You (footsteps) on the side.
Laura: I am flying down with the broom. Does anybody else need to ride? Do you need to bamf your wings out, or do you want to get on the broom?
Liam: I'm going to save those. I'll get on the broom. You're offering me a ride on the broom!
Travis: I've got the carpet.
Marisha: I'll take the carpet or whatever.
Matt: Grog and Keyleth on the carpet. You two on the broom. You flying. We're good. The rest of you guys descend down at a 45-degree grade and make it past where the lava stopped and cooled and collected and thickened up. Eventually, you find the area where it drops off into darkness below in this cylindrical tunnel. You make it down the 30 or so feet to where it stops. It takes you a moment, based on where Scanlan points you towards, but you can make out the runes he was mentioning. Percy, you're the only one who can read them.
Taliesin: More of that. All right.
Marisha: What? What does it say?
Taliesin: It's a "shop's closed," I suppose.
Laura: Can we reopen it?
Matt: No indicator of that. It was essentially, (door click) "Key is locked up forever. Bye! Bless this seal."
Laura: Bust through this shit or undo it? Do we have a way to cancel the seal out?
Marisha: So it's quite literally a family business. We're closed, retired. Bars in front of it.
Matt: You get that sense. The forge was made by and for the use of the Allhammer, and the Allhammer is locked somewhere on his own plane across the other side of the Divine Gate and has been for 800 years.
Liam: We've got a god-made doorway in front of us. Something-made door, right. Natural rock around it or is everything carved?
Matt: Natural volcanic rock. It's that same crumbly, porous black stone.
Taliesin: I'm going to touch the doors.
Matt: It feels like the rest of the surrounding stone.
Taliesin: There's no obvious mechanism for opening it?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: Can I pray to Pelor?
Taliesin: That's awful. No. Six.
Matt: No current sign of anything.
Taliesin: Anytime I look for anything worthwhile, I stare at rock going, huh! Found a rock.
Laura: I'm going to pray to Pelor. I don't know if it makes a difference.
Matt: What are you going to say?
Laura: I'm going to say  well. We are here at a doorway. I don't know if you speak to the Allhammer, if you know anything about this, but if you have any way to help us get through this, now would be the time. Trying to do good work here for you and all of mankind.
Travis: What about your bean?
Laura: Oh yeah. Well, I'm going to take the bean out and say all that shit again with the bean in between my hands. I'm going to whisper it to the bean because it's part of him.
Marisha: Can you hear the ocean?
Matt: Ocean bean. Putting the words and thoughts out there. Prayer is still a foreign thing to you that you're still learning to do.
Laura: That's why it was so good.
Matt: There's no words that respond, but you do get a warm sense pushing you forward. You get the idea from whatever guidance Pelor is sending your direction that you can translate from your only recently somewhat-faithful heart that you're on the right path. That's as much as you can muster from the conversation.
Laura: Thanks.
Travis: I don't want to jump the gun, but I did punch a volcano today. This door, probably not too big a tuna for me to filet, you know what I mean? Unless the runes say, "If you punch, melt you will."
Sam: It didn't say anything like that.
Travis: It didn't?
Marisha: It seems like it's just closed.
Laura: Are they glowing runes? Are they magical runes? Do they seem like they're magic?
Matt: This is an interesting point I should have recalled. Grog, are you still in your large form or not?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: How did you use the magic carpet to get across? That carpet will not carry you in your large form.
Travis: Oh, good point.
Laura: You're little. Or you could have--
Taliesin: Just slid down.
Laura: Oh yeah, could you have stretched to either side and he does a Ninja Warrior shit down the tube?
Travis: Well, we don't know how wide. How wide?
Laura: Well, that's what I mean.
Matt: The passageway heading downward would probably be somewhere in the neighborhood of between 15 to 20 feet.
Laura: What about a Wonder Woman situation where you (impacts). Because you got the siege gauntlets on? And you make handholds?
Liam: How long a drop was it?
Matt: Well, the drop wasn't the issue. It was the 40 feet of lava that was curling down.
Travis: You could fly down and put me in the necklace, if you want.
Laura: Yeah, sure, that's what I did. Popped Trinket out, flew back up, grabbed Grog, came back down.
Matt: From a logistical standpoint, I recalled that.
Travis: Good call.
Matt: Okay, so what are you guys going to do?
Taliesin: Are the runes glowing? Are the runes not glowing?
Matt: No, the runes aren't glowing. You get the sense, Scanlan, that it was less that they were glowing, more that your truesight revealed the presence--
Sam: To me, everything is glowing a little bit.
Matt: You are a little Neo in the Matrix in this new physical form.
Taliesin: Tommy Wiseau is what I'm getting from this. I'm going to take the Sun Stone out of its little container, and really light up the room, and just illuminate the whole room now.
Laura: Is there a door knob or anything that looks like a seal?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: Thank you, somebody.
Laura: 18.
Liam: 22.
Matt: 22. Glancing about, with the help of his light, as well, you look and you can see most of the rock is jagged and broken in places, and as you feel the edges, some parts flake off relatively easy, and when you get to the section of where that rectangular piece of the wall is that the glyphs are put across, it looks like it's a little smoothed over, like someone smoothed it down to make this intentional seal, but there's no sign of any sort of keyhole or handle or anything.
Laura: Maybe you could push it?
Travis: Let's try being polite, first. I will knock on the door.
Matt: It's heavy stone.
Travis: All right, fuck this. I try and push the door either in and to either side.
Matt: Make a strength check.
Liam: Go Strongjaw, go!
Laura: Go Strongjaw, go!
Marisha: Go Strongjaw, go!
Travis: 17.
Sam: You're inspired.
Travis: Oh yeah, I'll use that shit.
Matt: It's a d12.
Travis: Oh, it is? Oh shit. Awesome. 26.
Matt: 26! You jam your hands into the wall and push. As you push and shove, your fingers are grinding and breaking the actual stone until they feel something metal. It goes from crumbling stone to a metallic surface, and as you pull your hands back a little bit, you pull away these giant chunks of volcanic stone, the actual runes and glyphs breaking around your grasp, and you can look inside and see hammered, dark metal on the other side. You then put your hand in and shove as hard as you can, and with a very faint grinding, you feel it give about an inch, then another inch. And then eventually, it gives out suddenly, and you watch as suddenly the entire square structure falls inward with a slamming echo sound that echoes again and again, down a stairway that disappears from view about 20 feet ahead of you.
Laura: Check for traps!
Travis: You got it. Natural 20. (laughter)
Travis: That's not my thing.
Matt: Natural 20 doesn't mean you succeed, necessarily.
Liam: 18 for me.
Matt: All right. Both of you glance throughout the initial--
Liam: Grog, what do your elven eyes see?
Matt: -- steps into the hallway, which is now littered with broken rock for the first ten feet or so, with a platform where the large rectangular metal structure fell over. No signs of any traps, no signs of any tweaking with the floor or walls for any triggers. You do notice that the metal surfaces here are a texture of rough, hammered metal. You can see the series of small indentations, like all these have been hammered into place, and it looks like the seams where these large metallic wall slabs would be have a thin little placed bar over those, as well. You've gone from central volcano, natural, emerging and expanding rock and lava to a place of very intense, intended construct.
Travis: I feel like this is it.
Laura: Would my greedy eyes know what kind of metal it is?
Matt: Make an intelligence check.
Sam: It's all pewter. Pewter everywhere.
Laura: Intelligence. Investigation?
Matt: Well, this would be just an intelligence check. Just a straight modifier.
Laura: (laughs) Oh! Ten.
Matt: Ten? (sighs) You're not entirely certain of the metal. It is a dark, dull, slate gray. A little darker than that, even, and elements of the edges appear to be almost red. Almost like a rust or ruddy color, but you don't recognize what type of metal it is, necessarily.
Liam: I'm stealthing. I'm stealthing down the steps.
Laura: I did cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us again a while ago. I said it. I even marked it off after the fight.
Matt: Okay. You rolled a natural 20?
Liam: Yep. Using a Luck. But yeah.
Matt: Using Luck. You've used three Lucks today.
Liam: Three of my four, according to your campaign guide?
Matt: The campaign guide was something that was for other people to use... (laughter)
Matt: As sort of an inside joke for the previous more than three Lucks.
Liam: Well, that was my third, not my fourth.
Matt: Right, I'm saying for the purposes of the guide being released and you embracing your fate-touched nature and the extremely dutiful adherence to the law of your Raven Queen... sure, I'll give you a fate-touched additional fourth Luck.
Marisha: He's throwing you a bone.
Sam: You know why? Because he knows Liam bought the book.
Liam: I did buy the book. I bought the book in the first hour.
Sam: I bought the book, too. What do I get?
Matt: You get an awesome angel dick. (laughter)
Laura: Your one-inch cube suddenly grows.
Liam: To two inches!
Matt: Angel wang, by the way, is a good band name.
Travis: (singing) Angel wang.
Matt: All right.
Sam: I'm going to fly over to Vex and wordlessly say to her, be honest. Do you think I'm more handsome like this or as normal Scanlan?
Laura: I'm going to think in my head, Scanlan's the best.
Sam: Be aware that as a divine being, I can sense any lie. (laughter)
Laura: Scanlan, darling. You're fucking hot right now, all right? But I love you like you were. You're always my favorite when you're just yourself.
Sam: All right. Thank you. I turn my little naked butt to her and fly away. (laughter)
Matt: All right. So, this hallway that you guys have pushed through now, it's about 20 feet wide, 30 feet tall, and this long ceiling gradually curves to an apex point, like two adjoining sides of a roof. And it continues to progress forward, and then descends with the staircase.
Travis: Are the walls hot to the touch, since they're metal?
Matt: You put your hand out and feel it, and yes, they are. Not like (sizzle), but your hand can rest for a few seconds before you have to remove it. They're very hot.
Travis: We progress forward into the room down the stairs. Wherever the stairs lead.
Matt: All right, so. You leading?
Liam: Yeah, I'm 60 feet ahead with my 47 stealth right now.
Matt: Right. Okay. So as you begin, first thing you notice, the steps? They're long steps. They are about three feet wide each step.
Liam: God-sized.
Matt: So you're having to like, step, step, step, leap down a few feet, continue again, leap down a few feet, and each of you are doing this. Who here does not have magic boots?
Marisha: Me.
Laura: I mean, just part of my armor. If that's not boots, then it's probably just the front guards, huh.
Sam: I don't.
Matt: You're flying. You're fine.
Laura: But I've got my broom. That I just said I was on.
Matt: Correct. So you're fine. You, as you're walking, the ground is very hot, and you can continue to move your feet in a way where it's not too bad, but you get the sense if you were wearing normal boots and not the usual Ashari-made, leather setup that you work on, they would probably be melting across the metal floor here.
Laura: You want to hop up on this broom?
Marisha: Oh, I'm just-- big strides. Big strides!
Laura: All right. It looks awkward, but stay there, if you'd rather.
Marisha: I try to look more normal while still taking big strides.
Travis: It's not working.
Marisha: No?
Matt: All right, so. The air itself now smells of very caustic fumes mixed with the smell of burning coal, but there is oxygen now in this chamber. You can breathe. There's enough air to actually get a lungful here and there, though it is still thin, and there is still the toxic fume here that had you not had the Heroes' Feast, you'd be having a rough time. But you're not having to constantly dip into the jug anymore.
Travis: Did one of y'all growl just now? That was you?
Taliesin: That was me.
Travis: Or did it come out of the speaker?
Liam: You don't know.
Travis: That shit scared me. (laughter)
Travis: That shit was too loud from a weird direction. I got all haunted house for a second. I was like, (gasps).
Matt: I cannot wait to get to Halloween Horror Nights with you again.
Liam: Travis Willingham's fatal flaw.
Travis: I'm quick as hell. (laughs)
Matt: You are quick. That's why we leave you ten feet ahead of us.
Taliesin: You are the best jump scare.
Marisha: One of these days you're going to break someone's nose.
Travis: I know. Ah! I'm so sorry! (laughter)
Matt: It's going to be glorious. Anyway, as you descend the staircase, you ahead, make a perception check.
Liam: All right. I'm going to use your Pelor die. Hey, that's good. Perception, you say? 27!
Matt: 27, okay. You continue down for about two minutes or so, and even glancing ahead to the edge of your visual range here in the darkness, because there is no light source below at this point... the stairs are continuing and continuing and continuing, and you have no idea how long it'll go for, but you begin to sense as you're walking, and you hear this faint rhythmic, bassy rumble of a low, nearly inaudible, drum-like beat, deeper than any sound you've heard, quaking the ground ever so faintly. (slow, rumbling pulses) And you can very faintly feel it. You get down and move your fingers to the ground, and for the moments before the heat gets there, the next time you hear it, you can feel a very faint vibration, only because you are very perceptive at the moment.
Liam: Is it exactly rhythmic? Precisely?
Matt: I'd say, with your high perception check, you can tell that yes, it is precisely rhythmic.
Liam: I think there's some sort of god-sized machinery ahead of us. I think we're getting close.
Laura: Did you lose your earring because you're an angel now?
Travis: No, he keeps all his stuff.
Sam: I don't have the earring, but I can talk to you telepathically in any language. How about Italian, darling? (laughter)
Laura: Stop being creepy, Scanlan.
Sam: I sense my hour is coming to an end soon.
Matt: You guys are about 20 minutes out, both you and Grog, before you lose your forms.
Liam: Do you know binary? One, zero, zero, one, zero, one, one, zero, one, zero, one...
Marisha: Speak in Morse code.
Matt: Another ten, 15 minutes of descending these stairs that seem to go on and on and on, and you guys are starting to hear this (low rumbling), but it is getting steadily louder the further down you climb, Vax. You begin to see along the metallic walls, occasionally, shapes in the metal. And you glance over, Vax, and look, and you can see, carved from the metal, humanoid, armored warriors standing about ten or so feet tall, larger than normal. Their poses vary. Some of them are on the side, some of them are attacking, some of them are defending, and about every 25 or 30 feet or so, there will be one on one side or the other.
Liam: Are they standing free, or are they carved from the wall?
Matt: No, they're from the wall.
Laura: They're drawings?
Matt: They're reliefs. They're metallic reliefs in the wall.
Travis: Not some metal Medusa that turned them into metal?
Matt: Made of the same metal, it looks like, as the walls around them.
Taliesin: I'm going to quickly inspect one.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: I'm rolling terribly. Nine.
Matt: Nine.
Laura: I want to look at them, too. I want to fly up on my broom. I was going to say it and then he said it.
Travis: Please don't be golems that will come out and fight us.
Laura: Investigation? 22.
Matt: 22? Glancing around the seams, these appear to be just reliefs in the wall. There is no deeper seam. Their proportions are flattened. They are designs in the wall.
Taliesin: Does the style indicate anything?
Matt: The craftsmanship is extraordinary, the detail. Because you rolled so high, you can tell that these are just reliefs in the wall, but up until that point, it looks like the detail in the nooks and crannies are so microscopic, you can see texture on the skin, almost. Like pores carved in. It's immaculate. It's artistic, the level of detail put into these.
Marisha: Grog. Do you trust this?
Travis: To what are you pointing?
Marisha: The reliefs, the people in the wall? Okay. It was a hypothetical question.
Travis: Right. Do I trust the art?
Marisha: Just to be safe, I cast Freedom of Movement on Grog. Just in case.
Travis: Ooh. I start popping and locking.
Marisha: So loose. So free. So much movement.
Matt: So that lasts for an hour, great.
Laura: I'm going to be stealthy. I don't want to be noisy.
Matt: Okay. Roll stealth, please.
Laura: 32.
Matt: Okay. So what is the marching order here, please?
Travis: I don't actually mind taking the lead on this one.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Do we have five minutes left, or less?
Matt: You're pushing about ten minutes or so at this point.
Travis: I think five to ten minutes, actually.
Laura: Yeah, you had said 15.
Taliesin: I love walking on the wall.
Sam: We could stay like this forever.
Taliesin: So I'll be in the middle of the group, walking on the wall.
Sam: I'm so beautiful.
Travis: You look over and Scanlan's going (kisses).
Sam: So symmetrical.
Liam: I'm actually going to hang back.
Matt: Okay, so Vax behind. It's Percy and Grog up front.
Laura: I'm going to go up behind Percy.
Marisha: Yeah, I'll be with Vex.
Sam: I will fly up next to Grog and put my Healing Touch hand on his shoulder and heal him a lot. (hums) 31.
Matt: You heal 31 hit points, Grog.
Sam: Oh, plus three. 34.
Matt: There you go.
Sam: And you're also freed from any curse, disease, or blindness that you have, just FYI.
Liam: I'm also going to dump 20 hit points of Lay on Hands on my own damn self.
Matt: All righty.
Marisha: Wait, is that ding to your saving throws considered a curse?
Matt: It is a curse that can only be broken by a god.
Laura: If he fucking brings it up to a god. He doesn't even realize he has it.
Travis: I tried to talk to Pelor, but people were like, "No, don't talk to Pelor."
Laura: What are you fucking talking about?
Travis: What are you talking about?
Matt: Grog, continuing the charge forward, taking the steps, eventually you begin to see a source of some light. A faint, orangish-red light. Your initial instinct, based on your previous travels through here, is molten rock. It's a very similar orangish-red color from this distance. As you descend, step upon heavy step upon heavy step, you watch as you can see a square orange opening below. As in, the pointed hallway that leads you down comes to an end, and the stairs descend into a chamber.
Travis: I'll go in.
Laura: Would Trinket's little feet hurt if he was on the ground?
Matt: Do you want to put Trinket out of your necklace?
Laura: Well, I figure I would have tried to put him out when we got in the tunnel, but if his feet were hurting, I would have put him back in the necklace.
Matt: I would say Trinket's not comfortable, yeah.
Laura: Okay, I'll keep him in, then.
Matt: Okay. So. As you descend, Grog, the staircase continues below as the hallway comes to an end, and you find yourself descending into the center of a massive hexagonal chamber. The walls climb about 25 feet on each of the hexagonal sides. There's one flat wall ahead of you, and you assume probably one behind, though you cannot see it from your current perspective on the staircase. You can see that the walls are still made from the long plates of intricate, hammered metal, black and red-tinted with dust and rock and whatever other materials were forged into the actual metal. The support girders of dark red metal marks the seam at every wall-plate, like when you entered the hallway above. Central to the chamber ahead of you, across the wall that you see there, there is a glowing pit of heated coals, about 15 feet on any side that marks the floor before a giant, metal wall with two X-shaped cross beams that hit the corners of where that wall begins on each side. And in the center where they meet, you see a raised relief of solid gold bolted there that surrounds an opening of some kind. There's a space in that golden relief.
Travis: What's the floor look like from here to there? The same surface?
Matt: Same metallic surface.
Travis: Any seams, or just smooth?
Matt: Well, no, for the floor in here, it would be fairly smooth.
Laura: How high off the ground is that relief?
Matt: It's 25 feet to the ceiling, and it's halfway down, so it's about 12 and a half feet in the center, so from the ground, you'd have to get up to see it.
Travis: I move closer towards that.
Matt: Okay. You walk up, and you come to the very bottom of the last step. (grunts) Leap onto the ground, walk forward to the edge of where the coals are, there at the base of your feet. You glance up and you can see it. Make a perception check.
Travis: Hold on. 17.
Matt: All right, you glance up and you can see the relief of solid gold. The opening in it is triangle-shaped, roughly one foot across from point to point, like that. It comes into a triangular point. And it's about that size; it's about a foot, and then a foot, and then a foot.
Laura: I think you're supposed to stick your hand in it, Grog.
Travis: It's just the triangle shape, right? There's nothing else around it?
Matt: It's a weird rough circle, and then the triangle is carved into the center of it. The two walls immediately to the right and the left of that, where the hexagonal pulls back to each side, you see two more of those metal warrior reliefs that you saw earlier in the hallway.
Travis: And the coals are in a circle?
Matt: The coals are in a square section, a 15 by 15-foot square section of the floor in front of you that leads right up to the wall with the giant X meeting the seams in the relief.
Travis: (sighs) Might have to Tony Robbins this shit, right?
Laura: Does it look like anything's supposed to go in the triangle? Does it look like a keyhole?
Matt: It looks like a gold relief that has a triangular hole in it. That's all you can see.
Laura: Can we see how deep the hole goes?
Matt: You'd have to get closer to it.
Laura: I want to get close to it on my broom and look at it.
Matt: All right, you fly up above the coals, and the heat emanating from the coals below you is extremely hot. You can see it warping the air above it, so you have to protect yourself a bit and squint the eyes, and you swear you can smell the scent of burning hair. And you get up close and you can see the relief, perhaps some sort of triangular or pyramid-like shape would slip into it. It looks like all the corners eventually converge to a point on the interior of it.
Laura: Okay. All right. I back up so that I'm not in the fumes.
Travis: Is there anything else in the room besides the two reliefs on either side that we can see? Tools?
Matt: Do you guys want to walk around the back of the staircase? As you guys move around the back of the staircase, the wall on the opposite side of that relief contains a third armored warrior relief embedded in the wall. You can see there are four pillars right along the side of where the staircase descends that contain bolted-in, large braziers that contain ever-burning flames, flickering, that give that orange-red glow, similar to the coals you saw embedded in the ground as you arrived. And then on the back side of the staircase and the column that held it aloft, you recognize it immediately, Grog, strangely. Because while you've not cared or understood what these things are before, suddenly you know what it is. You see a large metal-- it looks like a well, almost, but there is a furnace built into it and a number of tools that are hanging to the side, small tongs and heavy leather gauntlets. This is a smelter.
Laura: Oh, that's where we have to smelt the platinum. Do we see anything around the room that looks like it could fit in that pyramid shape?
Sam: I'm going to cast, again, Detect Good and Evil, and do a swoop around and see if I sense any creatures or magically consecrated objects.
Matt: Okay. You swoop around the room. You detect no evil. You detect no magically consecrated objects. And at that point, the spell's about to fade or become permanent.
Sam: (sighs) Big choice.
Laura: You mean, you'll stay like that forever? You can't undo it?
Sam: Yes, my child. I will drop the spell.
Matt: Okay. And with that, a smaller Scanlan form appears, the planetar angelic form vanishing, and he drops about four feet and lands on his feet on the ground.
Sam: I feel my back, covered in hair. I'm back.
Matt: And a moment later, Grog, your form drops as well, and you revert back to normal Grog size. Still massive.
Travis: So we're supposed to smelt the platinum, right? Melt it down. And then we use our magic beans to make the Prime Trammels.
Taliesin: Do I understand how this triangle works?
Matt: This triangle does not at all resemble any of the designs that you had imbued upon you.
Taliesin: I'm going to hop up to take a better look at it, as well.
Matt: Okay. So you walk up the side and look into it and you can see it's a triangle, and then pushing inward, all the points converge on the inside where it would fit a pyramid structure, about one foot on each side, corner to corner.
Taliesin: And the point at which they connect, is that about a quarter size, would you say?
Matt: The point where it connects, it goes to a complete point.
Taliesin: Complete point, okay.
Travis: And that relief is in the middle of two crossbeams? So you couldn't push the crossbeams over and lay it down flat?
Matt: Well, the cross beams are bolted to the actual wall.
Travis: It's not something we have to lay flat.
Liam: Did you say there were two metal warriors?
Matt: There are two metal warriors to the right and left and then one on the back wall.
Liam: And are they separated from where we are by hot coals, or can you walk right up to them?
Matt: The only hot coals are the ones that reside directly beneath the relief.
Liam: Okay, so I'm going to check one of those out. See if it's any different than what we passed in that hallway.
Marisha: And you said there were three warriors?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: And we can get to the smelter right now, or it's beyond the crossbeams?
Matt: The smelter is on the other of the room, behind the staircase.
Laura: All the shit we need?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: 24.
Matt: 24. You approach, and look up into the warrior, and you can see the three of them are all in the same stance. They're all standing square. They all are clutching a long greatsword in one hand. The other appears to be open to either receive something or hold aloft something that's not there, and they're all facing forward.
Liam: I'm shooting my wings out as I walk up to them, as well.
Matt: Okay. (whoosh) Your wings arc outward. Looking ahead, you can see the armored helmet that adorns its head that normally would pincer to where the nose is, and you can see the pores of the face. The helmet is one, big, domed curve on top, and where a face would be, there is no face. There's the outside of the head and a similar triangle gap in the face that's smaller than the one in the relief. You glance over quickly into the other warrior, and the third, and all three of them are faceless, instead having an empty triangle that disappears into the face.
Liam: It goes inward like the big one.
Matt: Yes. But they're smaller.
Marisha: While he does that, I stand in the middle. Are the three warriors triangulated, if you were to draw out a triangle between them?
Matt: In the hexagonal room, yes, they would be.
Marisha: In the same shape?
Matt: It seems to be. Close enough, at least, based on the construction of the chamber.
Travis: What did the reliefs have in their hands? Weapons? Swords? Axes? Hammers?
Matt: No, they're all greatswords, but they're also part of the relief embedded in the wall.
Travis: Okay.
Marisha: And one open hand.
Matt: One open hand. It's embedded in the wall, and the other one is open to the side. But the relief is all embedded in the wall, and you can see the triangular opening. The only thing that darts inward is that vacuous shape in the face.
Laura: This is where Vox Machina dies because they can't figure out--
Taliesin: We can't figure out how the triangle works.
Marisha: Is there anything on the floor? Any patterns on the floor?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Sam: The smelter, is it active right now? Is it hot?
Travis: Yeah, the coals are cooking.
Matt: The smelter is low, but it's burning.
Sam: What if we have to make something triangular?
Laura: Yeah, to fit in those things.
Marisha: 13.
Matt: 13? Doesn't appear to be. The floor is pretty solid. There's no real detail that catches your attention.
Taliesin: Let's start smelting.
Laura: Yeah. Might as well.
Sam: What if we take those beans and put them in the little triangle holes? I don't know. In their hands?
Matt: Well, the statues are in the wall and you can see the outer shape, barely protruding from the wall, so it would be hard to place something in the hand.
Laura: Yeah, we switched all our gold for platinum in Vasselheim.
Taliesin: Yeah, so let's start the smelter, at the very least.
Matt: Okay. The bellows are there. The big old heavy bellows, and Grog, you know exactly what to do. It's a really strange phenomenon to be like, "I've never done this," but it's second nature, and you begin to get that forge to well and burn, and brightly. You can see the flames and the coals heat up from dull red to a bright orange to a white at times, and as it heats up, you have the tongs. What do you smelt in?
Marisha: But what to smelt in?
Travis: I'm going to walk across.
Matt: You get the sense here that smelting is the heating and liquefying of metals: one, to remove impurities, and two, to then pour into a mold in which, when it cools, the metal makes the shape of whatever the mold is.
Laura: Can I fly up to the circle on the wall, on the crossbeams? Does it come off?
Matt: You reach out and you touch the gold relief. It's built into the wall. It's a smooth, shiny, polished gold, but it's not moving at all.
Laura: We can't find anything that makes a triangle shape, a pyramid shape, in the room?
Taliesin: The faces of the statuary. Maybe we should prod them. We might as well start prodding things, because nothing's going to happen if we don't prod them. I'm going to crawl up to one of the statuary soldiers and see if the helmet comes off, or if the face is removable. I'm going to start tinkering.
Matt: You reach up and grab the side and feel the side of the face and reach into the inside of the gap in the triangular void, if you will.
Taliesin: That thing is going to go click, isn't it?
Matt: No, your fingers slide in. It does come to a vanishing point. It comes to a point like the larger relief. Once you look inside and get a glance with the little bit of light that's in there, the shape on the inside of it is different. It's imperfect and messed up. It's hard to see what it is, but it's not a perfect triangle like the rest. Also, immediately, you guys see there's a flash of orange light that completely surrounds the exterior of the warrior, and the two other warriors, their entire outer line glows a bright orange, and with that, you instinctually step back--
Taliesin: I step up.
Matt: Or yeah, step up, as all three of them (heavy movement) step out of the wall. Unlike the ones you saw previously that were pressed in and relief, these have a little more dimension to them, and the majority of their physical form was embedded backwards into the wall. They all of a sudden come storming outward, giant greatswords swinging in front of them, as they all immediately, the heads creepily with the open, triangular void of where a face would be spin to one of the nearby individuals in their space.
Laura: Ooh, maybe we have to kill them and then smelt into their faces.
Taliesin: I'm into it. I like this plan.
Marisha: Don't destroy their faces!
Matt: That's where we'll pick up next week, because it is almost 11:00.
Laura: All right. How tall are they? How big were they?
Matt: They're about ten to 12 feet tall?
Laura: And they're made out of metal?
Matt: They're made out of the same metal material, it looks like, that the walls are.
Laura: They're golems.
Matt: Constructs of some kind.
Travis: Those crossbeams, do they look like they're structurally integral to the room?
Matt: No. They're bolted against the far wall, and it looks more ornamental, or at least there are seams against that back wall to hold a relief there or at least that's where the relief is placed. You get the sense with more inspection, you'd get a better feel, but it doesn't look like, immediately at glance, it's integral to the design. So! We'll pick up right at the beginning of those large, metallic creatures emerging from the walls and the ensuing conflict next week. In the meantime, thank you guys so much for joining us on the next crazy step of our adventure.
Marisha: Happy birthday!
Matt: Happy birthday, yeah.
Laura: It's still for another hour! Thank you, Magic: the Gathering - Puzzle Quest.
Matt: Yes, thank you Puzzle Quest, Magic  the Gathering edition for being our fantastic sponsor. Thank you guys for watching. We'll pick up next week, and then after that is GenCon.
Laura: (laughs) Oh jeez.
Matt: So after next week is GenCon, so start getting that ready.
Travis: Oh shit. Oh my god, we're going right into it.
Matt: Yep. (laughs) Two weeks. All right. Have a good night, guys, rest well, thank you for coming, and as always--
Laura: I'll most likely kill you in the morning.
Matt: Is it Thursday yet? Good night. [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Brian: What's up, GenCon?! (cheering)
Brian: That's a lot of people. How you guys doing? (cheering)
Brian: Oh my god. Send me the bill for your plane ticket! If you guys think this outfit is ridiculous, you have literally not seen anything yet. Okay. Thank you for waiting. What? (muffled shout)
Brian: You know what's up, brother. Thank you guys for waiting. I heard, Tico told me that people were out there at 6:00am waiting? You guys! We're about to watch people play Dungeons and Dragons! (cheering)
Brian: What is happening?! We are alive at the best moment in history. Right now, there's a stadium full of people basically watching this live on the internet, and going, "How did Ashley let him wear that?" (laughter)
Brian: Okay, let's start. Let's get started. (laughs) It is I, your host for the evening, Recession-Friendly Ryan Seacrest. This outfit is what happens when you take 'shrooms before creating a Saint's Row character. (laughter)
Brian: All right. You guys already sound a little warmed up. (cheering)
Brian: Yeah. But! Just to make sure, because the live shows are all about the audience participation. We're going to go over a couple of rules for that really fast, but before we do, I get paid to be the hype man, so let me get you guys hyped up. (cheering)
Brian: Okay, wait. Okay. When I say, "Tary," you say "Who?" Tary!
Audience: Who!
Brian: Tary!
Audience: Who!
Brian: When I say, "Tary," you say, "Who?" Tary!
Audience: Who?
Brian: Tary!
Audience: Who?
Brian: When I say, "Tary," you say "What!" Tary!
Audience: What!
Brian: Tary!
Audience: What!
Brian: Goddamn. Okay, that's it. Warm-up time over. That was easy. Okay, here's the deal. Sometimes, people in the Twitch chat don't like Critical Role Live because the audience participates. Those people-- (laughs) Those people-- hold on. I just want to say, with all the love and respect in my heart, those people can tune off right now. (cheering)
Brian: Because I don't know about you, but when I'm at home watching Critical Role, and someone gets a "how do you want to do this," I fucking scream! (cheering)
Brian: Okay. Here's what you can do. You can laugh, you can cheer, you can scream, you can cry. You can stand up and blow the roof off this place if something cool happens. You can hug your neighbor, and get drunk after the show if something sad happens. And then someone please tweet me the bar that you're at, and I will join you... with Travis Willingham's American Express. Which is currently in my fanny pack. Please do not shout rules. Please do not shout advice. Please do not shout corrections. Please do not shout ideas. Odds are, your idea is probably better that what some of the stuff they're going to come up with is. However, part of the thing that is so endearing about this show is watching these nerdy-ass voice actors figure out how to play Dungeons and Dragons. Isn't it? That's what I love about it. Okay. It's disruptive, and it'll light the community on fire, and we like to keep these live things, but all that being said, please laugh, please cheer. There's going to be so much cool stuff. Oh, I was supposed to throw these out. (cheering)
Brian: (laughs) Okay. All right. Thank you, guys. Who came here from outside the US? Cheer. (cheering)
Brian: Wow! Really? For this? Look at me! Without further ado, I would like to introduce the cast of a little show we like to call Critical Role. Travis Willingham! Laura Bailey! Liam O'Brien! Marisha Ray! Taliesin Jaffe! Children, shield your eyes. I present to you: Sam Riegel! And the man that brought us all together. Ladies and gentlemen, Matthew Mercer! The cast of Critical Role, ladies and gentlemen! (cheering)
Travis: All right.
Laura: All right.
Travis: Fuck! Fucking shit! (cheering)
Matt: So that's surreal. Oh man. Well, we're all so excited for you guys to join us tonight, both here in person and out there on the internet. How crazy is it that we live in a world where, right now, we have people here live in this fantastic theater to watch Dungeons and Dragons? (cheering)
Matt: For all the crazy shit going on in the world, it's nice to know that we can carve some good out of it here tonight. (cheering)
Matt: And in that regard, so we don't keep you too long before we can get to the game which you all came here to watch, let's go through some quick announcements. Very quick. In fact, I think the big announcement, if Liam and Taliesin want to take that?
Liam: Sure. So Taliesin and I have been working on something for about a year, with around 89 artists from our community. It's been a glimmer in our eye for over a year, and it is almost here. We're going to be releasing, in the fall from the Geek & Sundry store, a Critical Role art book. (cheering)
Sam: Liam, they're excited about reading. They love books!
Taliesin: We've only told them about the pictures so far.
Liam: You guys know what a crucial part of this community the artists have become, and we have selected 89 artists from many more; there wasn't enough-- pages are limited, do I have a page number on here?
Taliesin: 260 something pages?
Brian: 256, Liam!
Taliesin: 256 pages.
Liam: We've seen it, and it is beautiful. There's going to be a deluxe edition and a standard edition. It will be available for sale in the Geek & Sundry store in the late fall, published by Hunters Books.
Taliesin: I'll say, regardless of what version, when you actually get the book, it's going to be treated as an artifact from the Cobalt Reserve, so there's going to be historical texts and writings from various librarians in the Cobalt Reserve, chronicling the adventures of Vox Machina, including a lot of fun Easter eggs. And there will be some fun Easter eggs in there, there may even be some background meta data that doesn't really exist anywhere else.
Liam: Yeah. This is not your basic, go the CVS store and get a photo book made. A lot of love and care went into this. We've been talking with artists for months and months. A lot of blood, sweat and tears have gone into this. We're very grateful to the artists who are involved, some of them are in this audience tonight; thank you. (cheering)
Liam: We stood around and looked at a proof of this about a week ago, and I might have gotten a little verklempt. It is really special. So keep your eyes open for it. Oh yeah, one last thing. To keep up to date, I'm sure we'll talk more about it, but you can visit geekandsundry.com/artbook to sign up for email updates and book previews, so do so.
Taliesin: It should be available for ordering sometime in the late fall.
All: Late fall!
Matt: Thank you guys very much.
Laura: Yeah, thank you guys.
Matt: These two busted their ass on this book. (cheering)
Matt: The other quick announcement we have  it's a fun little thing that'll be tomorrow for those of us at GenCon, and if it goes over well hopefully at other events in future, but when we released the Tal'Dorei campaign guide, the original design of the cover was from a POV of Scanlan, and there was some dissent in the community that Scanlan wasn't in full display on the cover. So I contacted Aaron Riley, the fantastic artist that worked on our cover, and we got some vinyl decals made so you can put one of two different pictures of Scanlan on your cover of the book or any book or art piece you find. (cheering)
Matt: We're hoping to have those in tomorrow, for those who can come to the signing, and even if you didn't get a ticket for the signing, come to the event anyway. We will have those available to pass out, hopefully. So you can pick from the two, or grab one of each, it's going to be ridiculous. One of the particular images, I'm excited to see where Scanlan shows up.
Laura: They're really great.
Matt: It's absurd.
Liam: Why's this small man on the Sistine Chapel? (laughter)
Matt: That's why they're vinyl; you can remove them without damaging property. I think. We'll find out. Anyway, without further ado, I think that brings us to the end of our announcements for the evening, and as such, bring us into tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Travis: Let's go!
Matt: All right, let's bring this down.
Marisha: Holy shit.
Liam: Vecna's Amish taint. (laughter)
Matt: A little late, but thank you. I appreciate that. Last we left off, Vox Machina, in their trek to eventually hopefully seal and be rid of the threat of Vecna, the Whispered One, in his recently ascended godhood on the Prime Material Plane, found themselves traversing below the sub-ocean volcano, the Scaldseat, where they managed to water-breathe their way through a jug. They traversed the poisonous air within, and coming upon the Allhammer's Core Anvil, on which many artifacts of the Founding and beyond were forged. There, you fought with the forge guardian, who was left to see who has proven worthy to utilize its components. You defeated it, and in doing so, Percival, with the designs bestowed upon you from Ioun, and Grog, with the bestowed-upon knowledge of blacksmithing, took to the blacksmith tools and together managed to forge, barely successfully with a modicum of structural integrity, the three Prime Trammels, hopefully intended to destroy-- or at least seal off-- Vecna's influence on this plane. The trammels now complete, each glowing with the runes of each gifted deity power source. We have one that glows yellow across its runic outside, one that is a sky blue, and one that emanates a black shadow from its runes, representing each deity that bequeathed an element of their power unto these trammels. You then decided to have Scanlan drop his magnificent mansion and decide where your next journey was. As you all enter the mansion, preparing for an evening's rest or otherwise, we left off with you, now, away from the heat of the volcano, plotting your next directional path. So Vox Machina, what do you want to do?
Liam: That's a great question.
Laura: Let me see those trammels. Who has the trammels?
Travis: I do. Why?
Laura: I just want to look at them.
Travis: All of them or just one?
Laura: All of them.
Travis: Fucking hell, shit. Here you go.
Laura: That's it. I just want to hold them, really.
Travis: They're real big, right?
Laura: Yeah, I'm cradling them, Grog.
Matt: Surprisingly, though, due to the platinum's design, they're not as heavy as you expect them, whether it'd be the enchantment or the material that it was made from. They're still heavy for you, Vex, because your strength is pretty shitty.
Laura: Can I tell which one is which god?
Matt: Yes. The one that glows yellow, you feel a slight bit of kinship with the blessing you received from Pelor, the Dawnfather. The other two, you can differentiate being the sky blue color, probably with Ioun, the Knowing Mistress, and the black probably representing the Raven Queen.
Laura: All right, cool, I'm going to hold on to the Pelor one. Pass them back.
Travis: I've got the other two?
Laura: Yeah. I don't know if anybody else wants to hold one.
Travis: Just in case things go sour I also thought of a nice way to use these, and I slide one between each of my fingers, and I hold it up. (shink) Okay, back in the Bag of Holding.
Liam: Are you still embiggened right now?
Travis: No, I haven't been biggened for a while.
Laura: Yeah, he was only big fighting the bulette.
Travis: Oh, wait. By the way, I believe you said that if I successfully did all of these trammels that you had something for me. Thought I wouldn't remember, did you? (laughter)
Liam: I did say that. It's rather personal, though, I hope the rest of you can understand that. I'm not going to be around for much longer, so I wanted to say--
Sam: Do you want us to step out so you can have a moment?
Liam: No, we'll find a minute.
Sam: What? What does that mean?
Liam: It's awkward; it's not something I'm comfortable talking with--
Laura: So you want us to leave?
Liam: No! We can talk out a plan. Tonight before we go to bed. It could be now; it could be later.
Marisha: You've said too much about it now.
Liam: I take Grog by the arm, and I usher him out the door of the mansion.
Travis: This is weird.
Laura: Outside the mansion? You're out the mansion now?
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: You're going outside?
Liam: Just out the front door.
Sam: Into the inside of the volcano?
Liam: Is it on fire?
Matt: It's certainly very hot.
Liam: Fuck it, Grog, let's go downstairs.
Travis: War room!
Marisha: He has 40 floors!
Travis: We're going down to the war room, which is a sand pit.
Liam: Yeah, and I ignore all of the cat-calling and all of the sniping and all of the shittiness. These fucking assholes.
Laura: Have fun, you two!
Sam: Use protection! (laughter)
Liam: That's what Grog is for!
Matt: The two of you descend the staircase into the subterranean war room, where there you see before you the giant sand pit that is currently adorned with multiple training dummies with armor and weapons. Strapped to them, magnificently pristine, based on how many times you destroyed and/or restructured the chamber, but there it lies before you.
Liam: Big man?
Travis: Yeah? That's me.
Liam: I'm not going to be around much longer, probably, or you're not going to be around much longer; one or the other.
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah. Boy, I've been holding on to a thing for a while now. Taryon, that scamp, gave me a gift ages ago. He became a fan after I pranked his ass at the beach. He caught the bug, and before we said our goodbyes, he talked to me for a bit and gave me something.
Travis: You pranked his ass, and he caught the bug? (laughter)
Liam: Right, I've got to talk simpler; sorry. That's my mistake. Taryon gave me a very unique item, and the purpose of it was to fuck with you. (cheering)
Liam: I could say "turducken" and you people would turn it into sexual innuendo! (cheering)
Travis: I don't know what that is.
Liam: Anyway, he wanted me to pull a prank on you, and we have a lot of history with that, and I held onto it for a long time, looking for a time that felt right, and it never happened, and sometimes I felt like I didn't want to do that anymore, but I don't want to let his gift go to waste. And truth be told, I did a bit of research on it. It is a love potion, Grog. (gasping and cheering)
Matt: I forgot about that.
Liam: Lasts about an hour. (laughter)
Liam: Lasts about an hour, and for a while, it was really tempting, and I was looking for a moment because that's you and me, that's history. But then I did some research and it turns out that it wouldn't have worked on you, anyway, because if you want someone to fall in love with you, it has to be on a person who you'd be interested in. And to quote a very handsome dickhead we know, I'm pretty sure you go taco, not hot dog. (laughter)
Liam: So I was right to assume then, yeah?
Travis: Yep. Taco.
Liam: We're not all so limited, but that's your thing; that's fine. I can't even use it on you, but I've got it. And I'm going to miss you. I'll be gone soon. I don't even know if we have time. A lot of us could be dead soon, but I'm not offering you this thing, but I'm offering you an experience. (cheering)
Travis: I don't know a lot of big words, but I feel like I need a little bit of clarification.
Liam: I don't know if we have time for this, but maybe, for old time's sake, because I love you and I know you love me and we share this in common. I thought maybe we could prank Scanlan together. (cheering)
Liam: Because let's be honest, that guy would fuck a turducken in front of him.
Travis: Just for the record, I had no doubts about where that conversation was going. None. You have a deal. I don't know how or when we are going to pull this off, but if you don't make time--
Liam: Yeah. It could be tonight.
Travis: Fuck it. It's tonight. (laughter)
Liam: Here's what I don't have. I don't have a plan.
Travis: Nope, me neither. We never have those. So listen, maybe while we're eating some of those shitty salads that this fucking place makes now, you can drizzle it on the top, or does he have to drink it with a drink?
Liam: I think he just needs to down it one way or another. It could be mixed with something else; it could be on its own.
Travis: Who do we make him fall in love with?
Liam: Well, originally I was thinking maybe we could have a bet and see which one of us he falls in love with. (laughter)
Liam: And I know that's a shitty idea, but we have to get up and--
Travis: I fucking love it. (laughter and cheering)
Liam: So that means isolating the gnome away from the others, because he could fall in love with literally anything or anyone.
Travis: Yeah, but look. The hunter does not go after its prey in an isolated environment. The hunter finds him in his natural habitat. Let him roam free, I say. (laughter)
Liam: I'm not sure I know what that means, but I will carry this baton and follow your lead.
Travis: Well, look. Before the rest of the group starts wondering what we're doing in the war room, let's go back up and whenever your sneaky ass thinks it's appropriate you (drip) in his drink. How about that?
Liam: We'll call that Plan A. Plan B will be that you grab his ass, and I just shove it in. (laughter)
Liam: Plan A, Plan B. You know those letters, you know that far.
Travis: I do. I know that part. And we head back to the group.
Sam: Meanwhile, inside. I'm just so happy to be back in the group. (laughter)
Sam: It's been a pretty crazy few days but I feel like you've all accepted me and I'm so happy to be back. And I can't thank you enough, really, from the bottom of my heart. Thank you. Thank you for fully accepting me back.
Laura: We're really sorry for everything, Scanlan. You know we love you.
Sam: I love you, too. Not in a weird way.
Laura: No. I'm married.
Sam: Just friends.
Laura: That would be awkward.
Liam: Hey, what are you guys talking about?
Sam: Oh, just how much we love life.
Marisha: How we're a happy family, you know?
Liam: We are. We are close.
Travis: (yells) Who wants a drink? (laughter)
Sam: That's a great idea, Grog. Invisible servants, bring us the finest vegan wine.
Matt: As a procession of ghostly entities make their way from the far-off kitchen on the basement floor of Scanlan's magnificent mansion, they procure a number of glass bottles containing wine. It's just wine.
Sam: But no added animal fats.
Matt: You're not wrong. Goblets are placed across the tables. Drinks are poured and you all have within your grasp a fair nightcap, if you will, before you find rest for the evening.
Travis: (clears throat) Scanlan. Man. Great teamwork today. Everyone, really.
Laura: Yeah, seriously. I'm so amazed with both you and Percy. You really pulled through, and we would be lost without both of you.
Liam: I start examining my fingernails and moving closer to Scanlan. (laughter)
Marisha: I do feel like our teamwork has been getting better, though. We've been doing so good. Synergizing.
Laura: Yeah, that fight could've gone terribly, and we pulled through as a team.
Marisha: Oh, a hundred percent.
Sam: You know what, though? I know in the past, Vax, I've had my differences with you. I didn't like you charging after that dragon that one time, and we had some issues, but tonight I feel like we're close and you would never do anything to betray me.
Liam: Oh, that wine looks really good.
Sam: Let's take a sip. But first, I was thinking about how close we've become, Vax, and I even wrote you a little inspirational song. (cheering)
Liam: Here, let me hold your drink.
Sam: Okay, sure. You'll hold my drink while I sing. This is just a song to show you how much you mean to me and how close we've become over these years. It's a long one. (rapping) Don't be tired, I'm here to inspire. Before you blow out, let me light your fire. I got no choir, just a gnome and a lyre. So listen up to Burt Reynolds, esquire. (rhythmic clapping)
Sam: Oh, that's going to fuck me up. (rapping) You've got those moves like dagger! You're fast as a cat! You can attack five times-- I checked it with Matt! You can't be killed, and one more caveat: You get to sit next to the Poohbah de Doink of All This and That! So imagine a dark room, lit from above. Folks as far as Czech Republic came to give you their love. Your heart is beating like a goddamn drum. It's singing, "I'm going back to Indiana, Indiana, here I come!" The tension is building, the roof's going to blow. This ain't a rehearsal, it's the motherfucking live show! Mic's rolling, camera's on, dice rolling, Scanlan's song. No more cajoling, this shit is on. This crowd is bigger than my cube-like dong! (cheering)
Sam: You been down but what's it going to take to give you some sack, man? How about 2,400 Critters chanting, "Vax'ildan! Vax'ildan! Vax'ildan!" (chanting)
Matt: Go ahead and make a sleight of hand check.
Liam: 29. That was inspiration to me?
Marisha: He's inspiring you because he thinks you're going to fucking fail.
Liam: 39.
Matt: Scanlan, why don't you go ahead and make a perception check?
Sam: That's a 12.
Liam: I instantly dive and grab Keyleth's eyes and cover them, and turn her away.
Marisha: Stop. Get off of me!
Liam: Sorry!
Marisha: Why? Your hands are a little clammy. Oh god! Why are you sweating? Why are you nervous? You're nervous!
Matt: A very strange display from Vax'ildan. However, your drink is available for you at the table.
Sam: Yeah!
Laura: That was a great song, Scanlan.
Sam: That's good stuff! Man, I just feel invigorated!
Matt: All right, so as you finish the drink, you blink your eyes. I'm going to ask you, Scanlan, who do you see first?
Sam: Let's see here, what do we got, six people over here?
Matt: Well, you have two that have dove off to the side.
Sam: Oh, okay. Then I'll roll a d4. One, two-- oh wait, it's just three. It was a fucking four. Two! Okay, Keyleth.
Matt: No, Keyleth is being shielded right now.
Sam: Oh shit! Well, then it's just Vex or Percy? Or wait, are those two, too?
Matt: The other people in the room right now are Percival, Vex, or Grog.
Sam: Okay, well, then it would be Grog. Do I have three choices or four?
Laura: You have four choices!
Sam: Four choices! All right, and could you raise your hand if you're one of my choices? Okay. One, two, three, four. It's Percy. (cheering)
Matt: So here's my question, Scanlan. First and foremost, let me pull up. Is there a saving throw?
Liam: Philter of Love.
Matt: Right.
Liam: I can recite it for you, if you like. The next time you see a creature within ten minutes after drinking this philter, you become charmed by the creature for one hour. If the creature is of a species and gender you are normally attracted to-- turducken-- you regard it as your true love while you are charmed. This potion's rose-hued effervescent liquid contains one easy-to-miss bubble shaped like a heart.
Matt: How long does it last?
Liam: One hour.
Matt: All right. And I guess my question to you, Scanlan, is based on your journeys and travels across the lands of Tal'Dorei and beyond, how adventurous have you been in your various exploits?
Sam: A human man? That was teenage years, baby. I've gone much further than that since then.
Matt: Then as you glance up into the beautiful eyes of the white-haired Master of Whitestone, his white locks gently curling at the tips from an afternoon of sweating amongst the heat of the volcano, his fingers gingerly caressing the outside of the goblet in which he's enjoyed his own wine. You find yourself impossibly attracted to your once ally, now direction of your affection.
Sam: I don't know. I don't know if it's the wine talking, but oh man. I feel something I've never felt before, Percival.
Taliesin: That sounds like the wine talking.
Sam: I've never seen you in this light before. Your eyebrows. I want to lick them. They seem soft.
Laura: You want to what?!
Sam: That came out wrong. What I meant was, what are you doing later?
Laura: I walk up and I palm Scanlan's forehead and slam him to the ground. What the fuck are you doing?
Sam: I'm sorry! It's just, well, you've seen it. (laughter)
Matt: Continue.
Sam: The way he looks at you and everything stops. The way all sound fades away when he's talking.
Marisha: No, that's his Silence spell that he got recently.
Sam: The way he cocks his gun. (groans) Holds it so firmly. It trembles just a little but then bang. (moans) Just a gentle touch is all it takes.
Taliesin: Would this be an insight check, at this point?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Please.
Taliesin: Oh no.
Travis: No, it's not! Is it really?
Laura: I'm going to feel his forehead. Does he feel warm?
Taliesin: How long have you felt this way? This is a bit--
Sam: It feels like forever. (singing) One song, glory. One song to win your heart, glory. Where do I even start?
Taliesin: I don't know what's happening right now.
Sam: (singing) One song from the pretty boy gnome.
Travis: We fucked up. Oh man.
Laura: Scanlan, I don't blame you. I don't. This seems to be coming out of nowhere, and he's married to me, and I will cut you!
Sam: Love knoweth no boundaries, and even though there's a significant age difference between us--
Laura: How much of an age difference?
Sam: I'm not at liberty to say. (laughter)
Sam: Why does marriage need to be so constricting, man? I mean, can't we be free in this crazy mixed-up world?
Taliesin: I'm not going to pretend that I'm not extremely flattered by this, and I am, but I don't know.
Sam: I want to see you naked.
Marisha: Scanlan, are you experiencing a bit of cotton mouth? Maybe?
Sam: (smacking) Yes.
Marisha: Are your pupils a little dilated?
Sam: The lights.
Laura: I'm going to look into his eyes. Are his eyes dilated?
Marisha: I turn to Vax. What did you do?
Taliesin: Is it that hard to believe that maybe someone finds me attractive? (cheering)
Liam: Guys, this is all besides the point. We have a god to kill. What are we going to do about the god?
Sam: Yes. No, we should talk. We should strategize. (laughter and cheering)
Liam: I want to step outside the game for a second to say that Sam Riegel gave me a bullet to kill Travis Willingham with, and I have turned the gun back on Sam Riegel. (cheering)
Liam: And shortly, it will be my time to die.
Matt: After this unique and unexpected display of overt affection, you find yourself sitting around a table amongst the mansion to discuss over your wine and confusion what plan of action to take next in your journey to take down the Whispered One, the Undying King.
Laura: I'm going to sit directly between Percy and Scanlan for all of this conversation.
Travis: So we rest and then we go hunting? Or do we try and rally allies?
Sam: I cast Mage Hand to tickle Percy's knee.
Laura: I have a 23 passive perception, Scanlan.
Matt: Scanlan, make a sleight of hand check.
Sam: 20.
Laura: What?
Matt: Yeah, you see him starting to make his fingers over towards your boy.
Laura: I grab his fingers and start to bend them backwards. I whisper in his ear: do you want to keep playing your fucking lute or not?
Sam: I'd prefer it if Percy did. (laughter)
Laura: Seriously, what the fuck is wrong with you? How long have you felt this way? Because this is very fucking strange, Scanlan.
Sam: I don't know. It was love at first sight, but now, so not first. I'm sorry! I'm sorry! I'll try to keep it together. I'll think of gross things. Victor's ball sack. Ugh.
Matt: "Learn from my mistakes."
Sam: Why are they so singed? All right. Okay, let's focus up. Okay. Go on, strategize.
Liam: Time! We don't have a lot of time. So what are we going to do with it? Are we going to get allies? Are we going to talk to Allura again? Gilmore?
Travis: Ooh, wait. First things first, do we know where he is? Don't you have the ability to like--
Laura: Oh yeah. Is he still in the same place?
Liam: I don't know in here; I need to shove my head out the door for a sec.
Laura: Well, shove your head out the door.
Matt: All right. As you emerge into the heated air of the sub-ocean volcano, you take a moment and concentrate and you can sense the direction and distance seems to be approximately the same.
Laura: He hasn't moved at all?
Matt: Make a perception check, I guess.
Liam: 24.
Matt: 24. You take about five minutes or so to concentrate, and while the distance and direction is relatively the same, there is very faint movement.
Liam: Am I able to feel gradual coming towards where we are, away, anything like that?
Matt: From where you are currently, which is in the volcano, it seems to be east and south of its previous location.
Laura: Where would that move him towards?
Marisha: Towards Vasselheim.
Laura: Solid.
Taliesin: We should maybe go to Vasselheim in the morning, start to rally.
Laura: Yeah. Do Allura and Gilmore and Kima and everyone, do they know what's going on? Have we sent word?
Taliesin: Well, we've sent some word out to the world.
Liam: We've sent messages to Tary and to who else? There were two messages sent.
Marisha: Tary, the Ashari.
Sam: Kaylie. I think.
Taliesin: We activated the beacons.
Marisha: We activated the Chaos Orbs. Crisis Orbs. I always mess them up.
Travis: So we should rest and head to Vasselheim?
Taliesin: We're not any good to anybody at the moment, so I imagine so.
Liam: I think we'll all feel better after a night's sleep. Yeah.
Travis: Scanlan, where are you sleeping tonight?
Sam: In my room.
Travis: Do we need to post guards outside?
Sam: I have all the guards I need. Don't worry, I'll be safe.
Marisha: We're not worried about you.
Taliesin: It'll be fine.
Laura: It'll be fine!
Travis: (laughs) It'll be great.
Sam: So we're going to sleep and then to Vasselheim?
Travis: We rest and then we go.
Taliesin: That's the plan.
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Okay, let's do it.
Matt: All right. Finishing your wine, you all scatter to your various rooms throughout the mansion, prepare yourselves for an evening's rest. In the morning, journey to the cradle of civilization, Vasselheim.
Taliesin: I do set a bucket trap at the door just in case. I set a bucket trap.
Liam: As everybody's trundling up the stairs, I catch Grog alone for a second and say: let this stand as a testament to how much I love you. I'm sorry that I shaved your beard.
Travis: Thank you. I don't have to kill you now. (applause)
Liam: Give him a little pinch on the cheek. Oh, Grog, you couldn't if you tried. Now. Good night, big guy.
Travis: 'Night.
Matt: All right. You all find yourselves in your chambers. Anything else you wish to do before the evening comes to a close?
Sam: Yes. Sorry, Matt. I know we're trying to get to other things, but magic compels me to put on my best silk g-string, and it compels me to use the series of tunnels that interconnect all of the rooms.
Taliesin: Oh shit! No!
Sam: That only I know about. And it compels me to sneak into Percival's room in the dead of night and crawl into bed with him.
Laura: I'm in the bed, you motherfucker!
Sam: Are you in there?!
Laura: We're married!
Sam: I thought it was like the 50s, where you had two twin beds.
Matt: Have you seen their gold pile?
Sam: Then I guess I better be extra stealthy.
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Sam: Okay. I think that's going to work. Eight. (laughter)
Matt: With a slight jostle, Vex'ahlia and Percival, you both pop one eye open and glance over as what you thought at first might be a small child crawling into your bed, scared of a midnight storm, instead find a magnificent, silk-adorned, familiar gnome trying to wedge himself between your bodies, which is impressive, based on the spooning position you're already in.
Sam: Let it happen.
Taliesin: I reach underneath my pillow. I grab a small copper ball. Manners. (cheering)
Matt: All right. And that's a strength ability check?
Taliesin: That's a strength check, I believe.
Sam: Just a check?
Matt: Is it a check or saving throw? That's the distinction now.
Taliesin: Where is it? It's a check, not a saving throw.
Sam: Ten.
Taliesin: No.
Matt: With a rapid series of clicks, whirrs and grinding of metal, you watch as a metallic exoskeleton unwinds from the sphere, (clicking) wraps itself around your body. You find yourself suddenly bound and held in place, unable to shift, as these cold metal bars wrap around you like an exoskeleton.
Laura: Scanlan Shorthalt, tell me now why I shouldn't feed you to Trinket.
Taliesin: I undo the lock so he can talk.
Sam: I'm sorry! I don't know what's happening to me. I know that this is your marital bed. Can I at least watch? I promise I won't look at you, Vex. I won't look at you at all! I'll just be looking at Percy.
Laura: Would we know that something is wrong?
Taliesin: I rolled a one. I don't know anything's wrong.
Matt: Make an insight check on this.
Laura: What am I making? Insight. Okay.
Matt: Now that you're up close and definitely discerning his behavior.
Laura: Fucking A.
Taliesin: I rolled a one.
Laura: It's a 12, but I rolled a three.
Matt: You get the sense that something's off and different, but you think it may be a practical joke or he's just trying to fuck with you.
Laura: All I have is Lesser Restoration. Unless you're fucking with me, I'm going to try Lesser Restoration.
Taliesin: Or we could go to his room and defile his room. God only knows what's happened there.
Laura: Here's the thing, darling. If something is wrong with him, and this is so out of character I'm afraid something is wrong with him-- not that you're not completely desirable--
Taliesin: That's all I needed to hear; go on.
Laura: But he needs a good night's sleep and I'm afraid he won't get it in this.
Taliesin: All right.
Laura: I'm going to try Lesser Restoration on him. I'm not sure if it'll work.
Taliesin: In case this is magical, I just want to leave you with something. (laughter)
Laura: In case it's not, don't do that anymore.
Matt: All right. You extend your hand. You complete the incantation under your breath and begrudgingly administer a Lesser Restoration spell onto his body. You watch as his gnomish form suddenly flashes with a brief burst of divine energy, and as it subsides, his eyes blink and stare back to Percival with the same longing lust that he had when he entered the room.
Laura: Well, fuck. I got nothing. Scanlan! Seriously, this is not acceptable. Go to bed! If we let you out of this cage, will you go to bed?
Sam: (muffled agreement)
Laura: I'm going to send Trinket to your room with you, and he's going to sleep on top of you so that you will go to sleep.
Sam: (muffled agreement)
Laura: Yeah, let's do that.
Taliesin: Manners. (click)
Matt: All right. It unlatches itself and reforms into the iron ball that you carry at your side. Scanlan, as you fall the ground, clasping the floor with your hands and knees, breathing heavily, still the warmth subsiding from the slight touch that you received at Percival's fingertips. Based on the time you spent drinking, conversing, scattering to your rooms, getting dressed and making sure you were properly prepared for this endeavor, making your way through the tunnels stealthing in at this moment, it's right about now that the phial wears off.
Sam: Ha ha! Just a birthday prank. Is it your birthday?
Laura: No.
Taliesin: No.
Sam: Oh, got the date wrong. (retching) I need to change. I have jizzed in my pants. (laughter)
Sam: I'm sorry.
Taliesin: Too much information. Thank you.
Sam: Have a good evening.
Taliesin: Good evening. Do you walk out the main door?
Sam: The main door.
Taliesin: Okay, so you do in fact trigger a bucket. (laughter)
Taliesin: With a viscous powder that I mixed up. It's basically a flour base. It's going to be a real pain to wash off.
Matt: You're a ghost-white, bucket-headed gnome in a silk g-string.
Laura: Why? Why did you do it?
Sam: For the lulz? (laughter)
Sam: I don't know. I'll see you in the morning.
Taliesin: I'm going to block the secret passage. I'm going to shift some furniture.
Liam: By the way, when everyone asks me tomorrow on social media why I did it, same answer.
Taliesin: This was good. Well done, you.
Matt: After some disconcerting conversation between the married couple and a shameful walk back to your own chambers, you eventually find yourself coming to rest for the evening. After a full night's sleep, you find yourself with your spells restored, your hit points restored, half your hit dice restored, and an embarrassing morning breakfast before you. As you all come down to a fine vegan breakfast meal there on the table, you all have conversation, start plotting and planning, and you hear the gentle footsteps of one slowly approaching Scanlan to the breakfast table.
Laura: Oh, hey.
Sam: (husky) Hey. (clears throat) Didn't sleep a lot. Sorry. Hey, Percy.
Taliesin: Hi.
Marisha: What distributor do you get your wine from? Just curious.
Sam: I don't want to talk about it.
Laura: So, Vasselheim?
Taliesin: Yep.
Matt: All right, so finishing your meals. What do you guys want to do? You're going to Vasselheim. How are you doing that?
Marisha: Okay. Do we have a plan before we get there? Before I teleport us into the middle of a city that might possibly be in the middle of a war zone?
Liam: Why don't I go see how much progress he's made? And I stick my skull out the door again and see how far he's gotten.
Matt: Okay. Make a perception check.
Liam: Very good. 30.
Matt: Okay. Listening to your senses and focusing on the direction, still traveling. Still relatively slow pace, as far as the general distance, but it's making headway. It's traveled throughout the night a number of miles.
Taliesin: We should at least prepare Vasselheim, then.
Travis: Yeah. He hasn't obviously gotten there, right?
Taliesin: If a wrath of a dark god is on its way, they should probably prepare themselves.
Marisha: Also, I'm assuming he's traveling with an army.
Taliesin: We would assume. With one eye each.
Laura: Oh god. What if Vasselheim is a show of power?
Taliesin: That would be likely.
Sam: Let's hurry.
Travis: Where to in Vasselheim?
Marisha: How long would it take us to get out? Oh, wait. We chartered that boat; do we care about those people?
Taliesin: Wow.
Marisha: Or are we just going to leave them in the middle of the ocean?
Laura: They were only going to wait for us a couple of days, and then they were going to head back.
Liam: Yeah, they would assume we drowned.
Marisha: Okay, fair argument.
Matt: Yeah, you gather that probably when they drove a bunch of yahoos out in the middle of the ocean to dive under a volcano in the ocean that they did not expect you to return.
Marisha: We did put a 500 gold holding deposit on, an incidental that we will not get back.
Laura: I think the destruction of the world may be more important than 500 gold. (shocked noises)
Laura: I know.
Sam: Quick, cast Lesser Restoration on yourself!
Marisha: It would probably take us a while to get up and out to a tree, right? I'm being a little selfish with my upper-level spells.
Taliesin: No, I feel it.
Travis: Up and out to it. Up the volcano, up the water--
Marisha: Okay, you know what? Don't worry about it, let's go. Let's just Plane Shift.
Matt: That's an arduous journey back to any possible tree.
Travis: Wanted to talk that one out.
Marisha: Yeah. I Plane Shift us to Vasselheim.
Matt: All right, so you Plane Shift to Vasselheim. As you guys encircle your hands once more, Keyleth, you focus on whereabouts in Vasselheim?
Travis: The Trial Forge?
Laura: Or Melora's tree maybe? (laughter and applause)
Sam: Residual magic.
Travis: Trial Forge?
Sam: Trial Forge?
Taliesin: Trial Forge?
Marisha: Where will you not get arrested?
Travis: No one's going to even notice me. Yeah, they were ringing the bells and running around and getting prepared and stuff. Yeah, and if for some reason, somebody's like, "That guy punched me in the face," we'll just punch them.
Taliesin: I agree with this plan.
Marisha: Trial Forge.
Matt: All right. With that, you close your eyes. Beneath your breath, you recite the incantation. With that, you feel your body suddenly sucked into a dark void and thrust through the absence of space. And within a moment's time, before you can adjust to the sudden cold and dark vacuous void around you, your feet hit hard ground, your eyes focus again to the light, and you glance around and the center streets, not actually directly at the Trial Forge-- ooh, we got music, finally. In the streets around the Braving Grounds, you can see the smokestacks from the Trial Forge over the distance. You also notice that the sky above you is deep, dark gray clouds. It's as if there is a perpetual eclipse placed upon this ground. You look around in all directions, and you see this roiling gray cloud cluster that encompasses the entirety of the sky above you, which should be mid-morning or midday. It's blotted out by the storm-- rainfall is absent-- and you see flashes of light, occasionally framing strange shapes and clouds. Whether by illusion or by a trick of your mind, you swear you see shifting darkness and forms, images in the clouds: giant faces silently screaming, hundreds of feet across, that extend and push out of the clouds and draw back into the sky. Massive hands that push against them, only to slowly recede moments later. You blink and they're gone, leaving you unsettled regardless and uncertain as to whether or not that was just you or if everyone can see this. As your focus shifts from the sky above, you look around and you can see Bastions are stationed all across the perimeter walls of Vasselheim. You see large ballistae mounted and armed as watchers scour the distant horizon on all sides looking for any sign of something in the distance making its way towards the city, based on the warning you previously gave. Unlit beacons sit at every major structure and juncture of the stone walls, awaiting the burning sign that an assault is spotted. Militia and armored guard move with haste to stations across the city quarters. You can feel the air of war permeating the streets. The streets are far emptier than you recall, the stragglers returning to their homes with carts full of rations, produce, and weapons. Fear grips their face as they pass by. You glance off to your left, and you can see a wiry old man in the corner, his tangled silver and blond hair bouncing with fervor, as he shouts out, "The reckoning of our opulence has come! The gods are away and the price of our hubris comes to consume us." But no one's paying him mind. His tattered bones jangling his knees across each other, as he makes his way through the streets, his face a glance of utter despair. You notice an argument between two Bastions and a middle-aged bearded man who is painting a familiar symbol on his front door, not too far from where you stand. A five-year-old girl cries and clings to his leg. What do you do?
Taliesin: What is the symbol?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Taliesin: I'll make a perception check. Let's see if you'll roll a one again. No, that's much better. 28.
Matt: Glancing at this distance, you see a familiar and striking shape. It is a haphazardly drawn circle with dark, reddish purple paint and a small line and a pronged fork of four prongs painted up against this wall.
Marisha: Oh, hell no.
Laura: He's painting it on the door? The guy in the city is?
Matt: The father figure.
Liam: Yeah. It could be to pass over their house.
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: Pass over?
Laura: That's the Vecna symbol, right?
Matt: Sensing the distance of Vecna, he's still far to the northwest of here. But what was once a few hundred miles is now shortened, about two hundred or so, and getting lesser and lesser.
Laura: Fuck. Should we go up and talk to that guy?
Marisha: Maybe one of us. Maybe not all of us.
Laura: You there.
Matt: As you make the shout, you see the soldiers are currently arguing with him. One says, "You welcome this rubbish? Are you one of them kook believers?" And the father is angrily staring in his face and says, "You mind your business. I have no love for this, but if these dreams are true, I must protect my family."
Laura: Dreams?
Matt: They turn and look at you as you approach.
Laura: What dreams?
Matt: The soldiers take a step back with a look of recognition across you as you step forward with your white dragon scale armor. They know not to approach and there is seemingly a sense of knowing who you are, at least from the legends that are told amongst the streets of Vasselheim. The father turns to you and seeing your lordly approach, and strong voice, immediately. "The nightmares I've had, and I'm not the first. This symbol. It scares me, but if something comes like they say it is, I must it let it know we have no quarrel. To leave my family be."
Laura: This symbol will not protect you.
Matt: "How do you know this?"
Laura: Because I know his followers. They won't have mercy. They'll gouge out eyes, remove your hand, and make you one of them.
Matt: Make a persuasion check, please.
Laura: Okay. Hold on. 17?
Matt: Okay, he looks at you for a moment, his eyes keen with fear, and his face. "You're certain of this, my lady?"
Laura: Yes.
Matt: "Will you protect us, then?"
Laura: We'll do our best. That's what we're here for.
Matt: He looks past you, the rest of your companions, all looking well-armed and definitely capable. Looks down and rubs the hair of his little girl, her sandy blonde hair curled up and a bit dirtied. Looking down from her gaze, up to you, he says, "Then I trust you." He takes the tattered paintbrush he was using and smears across the symbol, destroying it. (applause)
Laura: Dear god, I hope that works.
Matt: He goes inside with his daughter. Before he closes the door: "Thank you. Please, help." Pulls the rest of the cart in and closes the door behind with a slam. The two guards awkwardly look at each other and back to you. "Thank you." (laughter)
Matt: "Be safe." And they both wander off.
Laura: I don't think they noticed you, Grog.
Travis: Man, I'm fucking slick.
Matt: Knowing the location, you're not that far from the Quadroads juncture between the different areas. You can go further towards the Trial Forge or back towards the center of where the Quadroads meets between that and where the Platinum Sanctuary and Platinum Dragon section is. There is the temple to Sarenrae, where you left Pike previously. What do you wish to do?
Marisha: Is the crazy zealot still running around?
Matt: Yeah. He seems to be scattered through the streets. He's maybe 60 feet away, still shouting obscenities and weird doom-saying prophecies.
Marisha: I walk up to him.
Matt: Okay. As he's shouting this time, "He will come! He will destroy us! You! He will destroy you, too! I've seen it! I've seen it."
Marisha: Yeah. I believe you. I've seen it, too.
Matt: "Good! Then save yourself! Run! Run far!"
Marisha: Wait. How did he talk to you?
Matt: "In my mind. In my dreams. He comes. He says it's inevitable. The clouds, they come as the first warning. The first seal broken. The sky has already left us. The sun is gone!"
Marisha: Okay. Yeah, no. Accurate.
Matt: "Beware the Undying King!" And he goes to run off, away.
Laura: Is he already gone?
Matt: He's running away.
Marisha: Man, I don't know how to deal with that type of abrasive personality.
Laura: Maybe it's best to not let people give him power, because the more people believe in him, the stronger of a god he becomes.
Marisha: But that guy resisted. He knew when others didn't. And he was crazy.
Laura: Could you maybe make the sun reappear?
Marisha: I don't know. Can I do a nature check to see if this is above my capabilities?
Matt: It's definitely an unnatural form of weather pattern. You get the sense that this is itself a minor miracle.
Marisha: A minor miracle?
Matt: Well, yeah. The sky that stretches beyond all sides of the horizon is of similar strange, roiling cloud doom.
Laura: Is it like Ghostbusters?
Matt: It's very similar, yeah. We're talking top of the tower, curling ink clouds out to each side, traveling with vast speed in almost all directions. You see no plain, single path in which they're traveling. They're emanating.
Marisha: This seems like a minor miracle.
Laura: Yeah. Can you miracle more?
Marisha: I could maybe try to carve out a patch of sunlight above us, but I don't think it would be anything more than a morale boost, at this point.
Taliesin: If we did it at a temple, perhaps.
Laura: Maybe above the Sarenrae temple.
Liam: He's bearing down on us. We need to tell Pike. We need to warn the authorities. We need to tell the Temple of Bahamut, the Slayer's Take.
Marisha: We have to keep people from defecting to him. The more people that he has, the more of his symbols that get spread around out of fear, the more he'll win.
Travis: Right, but we can only either spread the word that we're going to resist or spread the word that it's about time to fight. We can only do one or the other.
Liam: He's coming, one way or another.
Marisha: I turn to one of the guards of Vasselheim.
Matt: One of them's rushing past. He has a cluster of spears under one arm.
Marisha: Sir!
Matt: "Yes?"
Marisha: If there was a universal sign of Vasselheim, a symbol of Vasselheim, or a sign to fight, what would it be? (laughter)
Matt: "There is no universal symbol. There are many symbols in Vasselheim. All the various divinities that lie here have their own symbol."
Marisha: Okay. I didn't know if there was like a rally or cry or something that you all universally believed in. There's got to be something, a symbol of Vasselheim.
Matt: "Vasselheim is a divided and united city as one."
Marisha: All right, you know what? Never mind! Jeez, your politics.
Matt: He gives a strange glint of a glare towards your larger goliath friend. Right as he begins to squint, you hear a voice in the distance go, "Lieutenant, we need you!" "Right away." And he rushes off with spears under his arm.
Marisha: Thanks, Lieutenant, for nothing. Okay, maybe some sort of sign will help them.
Taliesin: If we're going to make a sun appear--
Laura: Let's do it at the temple of Sarenrae or the temple of Pelor.
Marisha: All right, we go to the temple of Sarenrae!
Matt: You make your way to the temple. You enter the interior, and you can see most everyone is in silent prayer. They're all either holding hands or clutching close their smaller kin, these renewed worshippers of the Everlight. Glancing around, you don't see Pike currently in the vicinity. All you see is one of the head priests, Coraline, who's currently off to the side is tending to a few of the folks from the interior.
Liam: (shouting) Pike?
Matt: Coraline looks over and sees you guys enter. "Oh!" Rushes up to you. "I'm sorry, she's not here, she went to the Platinum Sanctuary. Apparently, there's a discussion, a meeting of some kind."
Marisha: Right now?
Matt: "Right now. She left not but an hour ago."
Marisha: Okay, go!
Liam: Thank you.
Matt: "Of course." (laughter)
Matt: Walking up the endless stair along the side of the mountain that signifies the northern end of Vasselheim, you see small units of silver and blue armored warriors of the Platinum Dragon descend past you, rushing and giving you a sidelong glance as they do. A nod of recognition as some of them recognize you upon your approach. Eventually, through an exhausting ascent and seeing the clouds growing darker and darker, you begin to see that there is, from this vantage point, a very slight shift in their direction. They seem to be coming from the northwest. You eventually reach the base of the massive pillars that mark the stronghold's entrance, where you've been a number of times before. You immediately notice a crowd of mixed attire. You see Scalebearers standing tensely along various Bastion members. You see warriors of the Dawn Fist in their gold and red robes. And you see soldiers of brass and sapphire: the Hand of Ord is here, as well. Now, upon approaching the guards. The guards at the front gate see you and expectantly signify for the gates to open with a shifting (thudding). The two large marble doorways open inside, just enough for you to pass within. You enter the central chambers, the inner sanctum of the Platinum Sanctuary, where the marble halls lead to the familiar circular forum chambers where you last met with the Highbearer Vord, the Silver-Touched, who stands there before you, among his guard, in heated discussion. The room is lively with representatives of each temple clustered behind their highest lord. The red-robed Dawn Fist of Kord flank Earthbreaker Groon. Philosophers gather near Holy Curator Curtis Uleas of the Quadroads of Erathis. The Gladekeepers of the Birthheart stand behind the High Hierophant Ophera, while the dark-veiled maidens of the Raven Queen gather, leaderless, as is their order. Pike stands at the edge of the council, trying to listen in, before seeing you and rushing to your side. (panting) "Hi!"
Travis: Pike!
Matt: She rushes in and gives a few quick hugs. "Did it work? Did you do it?"
Travis: Yeah! (whispering) We got the stuff.
Laura: (whispering) We made them!
Matt: "Good. Things are a bit tense." And as she turns, you see now at the back of the council, towering over most others and without armed support stands the dark-skinned, beautiful J'mon Sa Ord, their simple clothing swathed in a loose hanging robe of gold and sky blue. J'mon's smoldering pupils shift in your direction, and they give you a nod of respect. The discussions halt as you approach, recognition also falling across the room. At which point, the Highbearer Vord turns to you saying, "Vox Machina, with a gift of timing. Have you anything to aid in this crisis?"
Laura: Like, so much.
Matt: "Then please, take the center of the chambers. I believe everyone here could use some form of good news." He steps back, and as the rest of the guards empty, they open the central space of the chamber for you to approach.
Taliesin: Well, technically we've already been observable, so there's very little that we can say that he doesn't already know.
Laura: He's listening right now.
Liam: How much do you know already?
Matt: "We have only taken a bit from what your companion here, Pike of the Everlight, has said. You went off to a volcano?"
Travis: Scaldseat.
Marisha: And we defeated it!
Matt: "You defeated a volcano?"
Travis: No.
Marisha: Kind of.
Laura: Look, I'm sure you've realized by this point that Vecna has ascended to godhood.
Matt: As he begins to speak, immediately the High Hierophant Ophera steps forward. "Yes, the dreams have spread. We've seen and spoken with the clerics all across this land, and it seems that a new force has shoved its way amongst the rest of the pantheon, though apparently closer."
Laura: He's not reached his full power yet. The only way it will happen is if he claims a great use of power.
Marisha: Yeah, performs a miracle. He needs followers.
Laura: He's on his way here. The more followers he has, the more power he has.
Matt: At that, when you say, "he's on his way here," you watch as Groon steps forward, arms still crossed. "How do you know he's coming?"
Marisha: (stammers) Just look outside.
Travis: Keyleth, hey, whoa. Take it down.
Sam: We don't need the sass.
Marisha: But I'm not sassing!
Travis: With respect, there are those among us that can tell where he is moving.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: I am the paladin of the Raven Queen.
Matt: At which point two of the maidens behind you say in unison together, "That he is, and the visions we've seen, as well. The pretender god. His words, channeled through prayers, speak of a new terror, a vile tyrant unchecked. Believe him. His words are that of our lady." And both of them step back once more.
Marisha: Have you met them before?
Matt: They said it in unison.
Marisha: Are you friends? Are you on the same mailing list?
Liam: They all look similar.
Laura: So yeah, he's got this ability.
Liam: She has granted me knowledge of his whereabouts, and he is coming fast.
Matt: Vord now speaks up from behind. "Good, then let us gather our resources. The esteemed J'mon Sa Ord has agreed to lend aid and resources to our defense." At which point, J'mon speaks up. "This threat stretches beyond the borders of Issylra. The clouds darken even our desert skies. If this specter of the Age of Arcanum has indeed ascended, as the clerics here are convinced, then it is a threat that we of Ank'Harel cannot ignore." Vord then turns his head frustratingly to the east and says, "And King Bertrand Dwendal has declined aid, claiming that until this rumored scourge arrives on Dwendalian soil, it is of no interest to the crown of Wildemount. No resources can be spared chasing whispers. We have sent out scouting parties, however. As you've said, this threat seems to be coming from the northwest, last you came through. And wyvern riders are seeking the location of this Thar Amphala." At which point, there's a flash of blue arcane energy in the back of the room. Everyone turns; the guards have their weapons drawn out ready. And you spin to see a familiar blonde-haired mage with braids on the side-- (cheering)
Matt: A bit out of breath, and in the same flash behind, a golden-armored halfling of sun-kissed skin and long, golden, curling hair. Large weapon dragging behind. Allura then, hand up in resignation, staff to the side. "We are merely here to offer counsel and communication. We mean no harm, nor to bring our arcane knowledge to your quarters, and I apologize, but extenuating circumstances require strange bedfellows, I think you will agree. However, at the first sight of threat upon Tal'Dorei, understand that we will seek your assistance with haste, as well. Emon and the council cannot survive another catastrophe, so we are here to behest and ask only you're ready to return depending on when or where this assault strikes." There's a bit of muttering amongst the crowd and some grumbling. Highbearer Vord nods. "We are in need of aid and as many friends as we can gather. You are welcome, Arcanist Vysoren."
Laura: Allura, does the sky look like this in Emon?
Matt: "It, in the past 12 hours or so, has stretched across the Ozmit Sea and now seeks to consume as far as the east coast of Tal'Dorei. If this is what I believe it is, within the next half-to-full day the entirety of Exandria will be under the shaded sky of Vecna."
Sam: Well, maybe the miracle thing is just the change in weather, and we'll be okay. (laughter)
Sam: Not all miracles have to be deadly.
Matt: "Very well. Will you be there fighting with our armies, in the front line?"
Travis: We will. I guess my only question is  do we wait for him to come to us, or do we try to take the fight to him?
Matt: "I do not wish to fight him where he expects it. As we are a city that has prided itself on its impenetrable defenses, I can guarantee you that this entity has seemingly procured, or cleverly divined, some way of breaching. I gather he would expect less us bringing it to him. We hoped to have information on the whereabouts of this city directly. What else do we have?"
Laura: We have the knowledge that we can't take him by surprise.
Matt: "What do you mean?"
Laura: He sees everything.
Taliesin: He hears everything.
Travis: Yeah, he's been spying on us for quite some time now, little shit.
Marisha: I wouldn't be surprised if there is a spy in this room.
Taliesin: Or at least an open ear.
Marisha: You have citizens of your city that are starting to paint his symbol on their doors out of fear. This is the last thing you want in the middle of this crisis. All time spent with any volunteer hands need to be from any spare clerics who can help calm the minds of the afraid.
Matt: He looks out amongst the rest of the crowd that has gathered here in the center inner sanctum. "Her words speak true. If he's indeed seeking to undermine the worship of this city, and as such break the defenses of our great creators, then we need whatever strength your temples have here, calming the people of Vasselheim and beyond. If you think he sees all--"
Taliesin: I think he sees this city as a ripe audience.
Matt: At this point, you watch as Vord steps forward, fiddling with one finger. "Long ago, this grand temple nearly fell to the prying minds of terrible mages. This here," and he pulls a ring from his finger, "is called the Band of Shrouds, a powerful implement of the Highbearer to shunt these prying magics aside. I lend it to you for the coming struggle." And he passes it over to Vex'ahlia.
Laura: Yes!
Matt: "Kept close enough to the one who wears this ring, I doubt even his newly born eyes could pierce it. However, it can only affect those nearby, so if you are to strike, perhaps it's best you do so away from his vision, and we distract."
Laura: So he can't hear us right now?
Matt: Everyone in the room takes a few steps closer to you. (laughter)
Matt: "Within this chamber, it seems so, yes."
Laura: (sighs) It feels so good!
Liam: I think that would look better on your middle finger, darling.
Laura: Oh, good call.
Matt: At which point the doors in the back of the chamber burst open once more, and you watch as two armored figures come rushing up out of breath. (panting) You see as these two wyvern riders, recognizing their armor with the horns and the large dragon-like build of their armor and headpiece, looking damaged and splashed with crimson, come charging in. One of them, the helmet is removed and you see a young man shouting through his wounded breaths. "Highbearer! Rider Ephatus, with Rider Marley, returning from beyond Moldire and the Tordusk pass. We found the Dark City." Everyone immediately begins to mutter beneath their breath. The voices begin to rise as the Highbearer puts his hand out to hush them. "It lies within a valley a few miles into the Zenwick Mountains. Our team attempted to infiltrate, but an unseeable barrier protects the city grounds from all sides. We found ourselves overrun by errant magics and winged beasts of shadow and hunger. Only Marley and myself survived. We were only a scouting regiment!" At which point, the High Hierophant steps forward. "Zenwick, of all places. Curious indeed." The Highbearer turns again. "Very well, if this is true, we must mobilize our forces very quickly." Groon steps forward once more. "We can push our ground troops along the Glasswalk Road, towards the range." Allura steps forward to join the conversation. "If we can choose some elite select numbers for an onsite assault, I can transport them." At which point the Curator Curtis steps in. "You'll do nothing of the kind! It is arcane perversions that enabled this madman, and we will not allow--" Ophera steps forward, putting her hand in front of his face now, saying, "We have druids who are familiar with the woods surrounding the base of the Zenwick Mountains. We could transport you to those trees, a number of you, for an initial assault while the rest of our ground forces assemble northward." At which point, the wounded rider speaks up, loudly. "I am not done! My apologies. Only Marley and myself survived with one of our wyverns. As we fled over the nearest mountaintop as fast as we could, Marley saw--" And the other one takes her helmet off, and you can see caked with blood, one eye swollen shut and a giant wound across the face. "I saw the city move, part of it. It moved, I swear it. I heard a rumble over the winds, looked past and back over our shoulders, and I saw the city begin to rise." Silence takes the room. I would like any of you with a fair amount of history to make a history check.
Taliesin: What's a fair amount?
Matt: If you feel confident in your ability to understand history. I would say putting it this way, those who have researched the lands that would probably be Percival and Scanlan.
Taliesin: Okay.
Sam: 27!
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: 27? Okay! I'll make part of this a whisper.
Laura: Wait, you'll make what? I didn't hear it!
Sam: A live whisper.
Matt: There are two places in the Zenwick Mountains that would be of any interest, or historical lore-based elements. There is the Crypts of Thomara: it's a subterranean vault city, built around a precious metal vein cluster by the xenophobic dwarven Thomara clan in the early years of the Age of Arcana. It's said a terrible madness fed into their greed, leading to eventual cannibalism and collapse of the society thousands of years ago. It's now considered cursed and is largely avoided. The other location is known as the Silted Veil, a small, cold valley within the mountains that is comprised of ice-dusted, mineral-rich mud that was once rumored to carry natural healing properties when applied to wounds and restorative elements to aged skin. However, a large variety of dangerous creatures also discovered these features over time and moved into the valley, taking over and establishing a new violent ecosystem based around the soothing muck. Scanlan.
Audience member: Hey guys, so those t-shirts-- (laughter)
Laura: Very true. There is Critical Role live Vox Machina t-shirts.
Marisha: Okay so the Crypts of (stumbles over words) Tholmeer? Crypts of Tholmayer and the Silted Veil.
Laura: Silted Veil and the Crypts of Tholmura?
Marisha: Yeah, which are the two places in the Zenwick Mountains?
Laura: And one is icy valley, the other one is, what, zombie dwarves?
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Cannibal zombie dwarves.
Marisha: Angry icy terrain or cannibal zombie dwarves.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: At this information, Vord nods. "Well, all forces on high for impending attack here, wyvern riders and air units, we need eyes on the Tordusk Pass, in case the city is indeed moving as they say. The High Hierophant will aid in transporting advanced scouts to the base of the Zenwicks. We would wish you be part of this if you are willing and able. Gathering information and seeking weakness to exploit are the key. Vox Machina, you are our focused stealth strike force into Thar Amphala."
Laura: Yeah! We're mostly really good at that.
Matt: "If you indeed carry the boons that your lady Pike has mentioned, then we need to keep Vecna and his force occupied to grant you entry. And we can do that. I certainly hope with the strength of our numbers that there is no way that he can see them coming. From the distant end of the central chamber here, a familiar voice echoes throughout the hallway. Oh, but I do, wyrm groveler."
Sam: But the ring, man! We just got the ring!
Matt: You haven't attuned to it yet.
Laura: Fuck!
Matt: And with that, we're going to go ahead and take our break. (cheering)
Laura: Come on!
Marisha: What all did we say?
Taliesin: What didn't we say?
Laura: Shit!
Liam: What a piece of shit!
Matt: We'll take our break here. We'll return at that moment here in a number of minutes.
Sam: Ten minutes? 15 minutes? What are we doing?
Matt: You'll know when the lights start going. We'll have people out there who'll let you know. It won't be too terribly long, we need to get a bathroom break and stuff. Anyway, be back here in a little bit, guys, we'll see you for the next portion of our journey this evening. [break]
Laura: Fucked up because it's Trinket. It's a Trinket cape. Yeah, but thank you. It's gorgeous.
Travis: Really? Right now?
Marisha: I'm rolling with someone's lucky die that I got delivered.
Audience member: Gets a little hot!
Laura: Yeah, it's warm. I'm already very warm.
Taliesin: It's a little cold up here. That's okay.
Audience member: We love you guys!
Taliesin: There they are. (laughter)
Taliesin: Oh my god.
Travis: We're missing one.
Sam: Who are we missing? Why? She was just here with a bear.
Travis: She's a moron!
Sam: Guys, thanks for coming to the show.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Marisha: Yeah!
Marisha: Hey, Matt, was there a winner?
Audience member: We love you, Sam!
Sam: I love Percy! (laughter)
Taliesin: Yeah, that's not over yet.
Audience member: Where's Larkin?
Taliesin: Larkin is in the hearts and minds of children.
Matt: Are we up and running?
Taliesin: Are we going?
Matt: Are we on the internet?
Marisha: Who's getting proposed to? All of us?!
Laura: No, I think it was to Liam.
Sam: We need Brian Foster to come out here and talk for 20 minutes and get the crowd hyped again.
Matt: Yeah. (cheering)
Sam: That'll work; that's fine.
Matt: That'll do! All righty, looking in the back booth, are we good? Are we online? Perfect. Welcome back, everyone. So as the inner sanctum chambers of the Platinum Sanctuary stood silent at the recent arrival of the vision of Vecna, hovering but two feet off the ground in all his lich-like glory. His toothy grin is immense, threatening to crack the sides of his face. As gasps fill the chamber, armored warriors thrust spear and blade towards his illusory body, arrows and spells passing through harmlessly and clattering, and splashing, exploding against distant pillars across the room. The smoke subsides and he stands there untouched. "Quite the tea party you've gathered here, Vord. I suppose celebration is in order. After all, you missed my re-birthday. I have something to show you that I'm quite excited about. Don't rush the surprise, friends. I'll bring it to you; do not fret. You're all gathered here in one place. It would be a perfect place for an ambush, wouldn't you say? But where's the fun in that, when there are so many less-protected loved ones to send my shadows to? Your daughter Desir, Earthbreaker, trains alone at the Bozon Caves. An easy target. Vord of the Platinum Dragon, your family lies behind the double-sealed doors of your estate. I know of your secret cellar entrance. The great protector of Marquet's jewel is away, and your studious concubines are left without their guard. Not to mention all of Whitestone, or Cassandra. Young Velora Vessar now plays with her owlbear doll, all alone in her room." At this point, Allura shouts at the top of her lungs, "That's enough!" And with a wave of her hand, dispels the illusion with a flash of energy, causing it to fade, leaving only the lingering omnipresent sound of Vecna's chilling chuckle. (chuckles) Then silence takes the room.
Laura: Vord, does this need to be attuned? (laughter)
Matt: "It does." (laughter)
Marisha: Why would you take it off?!
Matt: "I was gifting it to you, I didn't realize he was going to show up in my sanctum!"
Laura: It's okay. I'm going to sit down. Keep talking. I'm going to try to attune while that's happening.
Matt: Ophera steps forward. "It's a distraction, a bluff. We're close, and he knows it." Vord then turns to her and says, "I will not abandon my family. Vecna knows too much, we have no more time. Those who are primed for assault, it begins now. Vox Machina, how do you wish to proceed?"
Laura: Well, we can't tell you!
Taliesin: I think we proceed by taking a 15-minute nap, really, at this point.
Marisha: What? Wait, did you make a decree and then turn to us and say, "What's your plan?"
Matt: "Yes." (laughter)
Matt: "You think I haven't heard tales of your chaotic battle strategies? I cannot attempt to ascertain the nature of how you've survived the trials you have, so I leave that entirely up to you. The rest we can handle, organize and strategize."
Laura: You do that.
Matt: As you take a moment and rest, the rest of the individuals there begin to talk amongst themselves. The other leaders begin to set their clerics and warriors, sending out orders to the various temples across all of Vasselheim and beyond to prepare themselves, some for the defense of the city, and some to make their way northward to wherever Thar Amphala will be found, head on. While this happens, and you're currently attuning to this ring--
Laura: I'm un-attuning the Bracers of Archery in order to attune to this ring.
Matt: Okay, you're removing the Bracers of Archery and you're attuning to the ring. That's two less damage on your ranged attacks.
Laura: Do you have a card that I can see?
Marisha: She wants that paper!
Laura: I want that paper!
Matt: The ring card is in my hotel room, but you will have it next week. But essentially what it does, while it's attuned to you and on you, within 60 feet of you at all times, divination magic is inert and cancelled.
Laura: And what's the name of it, exactly?
Matt: It is called the Band of Shrouds.
Marisha: Also, the hotel printer was broken.
Matt: Even getting my sheets printed out for this game has been a whole ordeal. Thank you, Dani! As this is happening and you guys are amongst yourselves figuring out what to do, and the rest of the crowd is murmuring, you hear the footfalls, another, another, another, the approach of J'mon Sa Ord. "My warriors defend this city, but my strength also lies in the front lines. If a distraction is what you need to succeed, there are few things as distracting as a shining dragon. I will fly with the wyverns once Vox Machina has been delivered, and the delivery shall be upon the wings I bear, if you'll have me." (cheering)
Laura: Dracarys!
Matt: And they give a bow and a nod.
Laura: Has it been long enough that it's attuned?
Matt: Not yet, no. The rest of the people are gathering about. You guys are, for the moment, focused inward. Pike's there with you. There is a tension being passed around, but right now they're letting you strategize before you bring what you have to the table. Right now, they have nothing until you have a strategy.
Sam: We know of two places to go to up near the something mountains. Zenwick Mountains?
Laura: I don't want to talk about it for a little more time.
Sam: Sure, we'll definitely stay here, then. Definitely be here the whole time.
Marisha: You know what? We should go shopping!
Travis: No, fuck that! We are not shopping! I'll quit! I'll leave.
Marisha: No, Grog! No!
Laura: Maybe we should just give up.
Travis: What is wrong with you?! First shopping, and now we give up. What the fuck?!
Laura: No, you know what? Vecna's right. I'm really worried about our family. We should all split up and go be with our families right now.
Marisha: And maybe we should convert. I should just stab myself in the eye right now.
Laura: Maybe you should! Maybe we will! Let's do it.
Marisha: Let's do that.
Liam: Be priests of Vecna.
Marisha: Praise Vecna.
Sam: Praise Vecna.
Travis: (shouting) What. The. Fuck?! (laughter)
Travis: Take it back. Now.
Liam: No, I think that's a good idea. (sizzling) And I start pushing Whisper slowly.
Laura: No! Okay, seriously, that's too far. It's too far, don't. I don't like it.
Sam: Don't worry, he can't be killed. Just like all of us can't be killed.
Travis: J'mon, I'm coming with you. These people have lost their fucking minds.
Matt: "Do not worry, Grog. Be patient. I think there is more to their words than you are-- sit down." For the sake of brevity, as everyone is cautiously waiting for the ring's attunement, eventually you feel the energy click as the ring has been slipped on for this time. You feel this slight shimmer of cold wash through your body and extend outward. At which point, you know the ring has finally been attuned.
Sam: All right, we can talk freely.
Liam: Show it to us. How does it look?
Laura: It looks fucking good.
Taliesin: It looks quite nice.
Laura: It looks great, Grog.
Travis: Yeah, quitter.
Laura: Okay. Fuck Vecna; we're not for Vecna. Yeah. I know! Change of heart. So we have two options, right? What were you saying, Scanlan?
Sam: The Crypts of Fomora or the Silted Bale.
Laura: The Stilted Bale?
Sam: The Silted Bale.
Matt: Veil. It's a Veil.
Marisha: Silted Veil and the Crypts of Thromora.
Sam: Fomora.
Marisha: Fromora?
Sam: Sure. We know a general sense of where we're going.
Laura: So wait, we're going there why?
Sam: Those are the only places that we know within the Zenwick Mountains that have any appeal.
Laura: Okay, so we choose between those two as our strike place?
Sam: Yes. One of them is filled with crazy dwarf cannibals. And the other one has ice mud that can heal you.
Marisha: But has turned violent, because nature is angry.
Liam: The druids are dropping us off at the base of the mountain. We don't really know where either of those things are.
Laura: Maybe it's best that we don't let anyone else know where we're going.
Sam: All right, including ourselves? (laughter)
Sam: I like that plan!
Laura: Yeah, because that way it'll all be a surprise.
Marisha: Didn't he already hear our two options?
Marisha: Did he?
Laura: Did he?
Sam: We don't know.
Travis: Oh my god.
Laura: I don't know what he heard. I don't know how often he listens to us, I don't know any of that.
Marisha: Man, how does it work? Does he have several lines open and he switches back and forth?
Laura: Does he have to actively listen, or is it a passive thing?
Marisha: And how bored is this guy?
Laura: I mean that's the thing, I mean he's building an army and trying to take over the world. I can't imagine he's listening to us all the time.
Marisha: Yeah, he's just trolling us!
Liam: In my opinion, the gods are generally bored and looking for things to do.
Laura: Yeah but him. He's doing things. Like he's got shit to do.
Taliesin: I'm personally thinking that an undead army of cannibalistic dwarves would be very appealing if I were starting an assault on a city like this, and I would be heading my city in that direction to raise a bunch of undead cannibalistic dwarves. That's my vibe.
Liam: So you, Percy, want to go burn them up?
Taliesin: I feel like that's where we're going to find them, and where we'll find them preoccupied.
Marisha: But if we know that's what he would do, then wouldn't he know that we would go to find him at what he would do?
Taliesin: You're assuming that he's going to do what he would expect us to think he would do in the first place.
Laura: Do we know what kind of creatures are in the icy veil? Could there be ice giants there? Would Vecna want ice giants?
Marisha: Undead icy zombies?
Matt: There's an entire ecosystem of very dangerous monstrosities that exist there, which means there are living and dead. An elephant graveyard of various aberrations and terrible creatures.
Travis: Well, look, if there are undead cannibal dwarves or whatever in the crypts, don't we need clerics to deal with them?
Liam: We have a cleric.
Sam: Let's take her.
Laura: Pike!
Matt: "Yeah?"
Laura: Are you willing to leave the temple now?
Matt: "I'm afraid for my people there, but I feel I can probably send myself with you like I have in the past."
Liam: It's all or nothing, Pickle.
Matt: "I feel bad abandoning everyone that I've brought to the temple."
Laura: You aren't abandoning them.
Liam: You're shielding them.
Marisha: You could always do like the astral projection thing, right?
Matt: "That's what I was thinking of doing."
Laura: Well, okay, but if you're astral projecting, aren't you chilling in one room here, not really communicating, anyway?
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Marisha: I don't know if it's for Pike or for the DM.
Taliesin: We have a bit of a roving blind spot here that we could use.
Laura: 13.
Matt: 13?
Laura: Oh no! But this can't be the only thing that determines if she's an astral projection or if she comes with us?
Liam: My begging has to count, as well! (laughter)
Marisha: She destroyed a whole undead army being a laser light beam.
Liam: Yeah! That's right, she Tron'd those motherfuckers.
Laura: Will everything work like normal if she's astral projection?
Matt: I'll tell you what, if you're so eager to bring Pike along, and Ashley can't play, do you guys want to jaeger her? Because I don't want to.
Laura: Yeah, we'll totally jaeger her if she's okay with it.
Marisha: Remember, we've talked about this. There's also the thing that if she dies while Ashley's not here, we're fucking assholes!
Travis: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Laura: Okay, that's very true.
Marisha: She won't die if she's a (bubbling) thing.
Laura: But if she's an astral projection, can she still use the champion's blessing that she got from Sarenrae and stuff?
Matt: We'll find out.
Laura: Motherfuck.
Marisha: But we can always easily go get her.
Travis: It's the best we can do.
Matt: The dungeon master will remember that.
Travis: All right, so what, the Crypts or the Silted Veil?
Sam: One thing that I can tell you about the Crypts that you may not know. They're not man-made crypts. They're actually the inside of a fallen titan's body.
Laura: How do you know that?
Sam: I know things. (laughter)
Sam: It seems like a pretty godly place to go to make a statement.
Liam: Are you telling me we're going to have to crawl into another monster's asshole? Is that what you're saying?
Sam: It's Friday.
Marisha: And now we have two immovable rods! (cheering)
Taliesin: That got weird.
Sam: All right.
Travis: So the Crypts?
Sam: To the Crypts, I say. But are we druiding there and then flying on a dragon, or just flying on a dragon?
Matt: Pike's, "Well, I mean, I'll come with you if that's all right? If we're going to this, we need to do this together. I trust the city guard. And if it gets real bad, you'll take us back, right, Keyleth?"
Marisha: What?
Matt: "If it gets real bad, you'll take us back, right?"
Marisha: Yeah!
Matt: "Then let's do it!" And she puts her hand out towards Grog.
Travis: (shouting) Fuck yeah, buddy! (cheering)
Matt: It looks like most of the sanctum is now dissipating and heading out towards the front of the temple and going about some sort of structured exit to prepare for this assault.
Liam: Allura!
Matt: As she's standing by, walking with Kima, they're in a heated discussion with a member of the Paramours of the Quadroads. She turns. "Vax'ildan, yes. It's good to see you."
Liam: It is so good to see you. We need advice. We need help. There you go. When we fought Vecna, he threw us around like ragdolls. He held us. He did whatever he wanted. Do you have any way, any thing, any suggestion for helping us avoid his grasp again? Because if it went the way it went the last time we are fucked right out of the gate.
Matt: "What do you perceive as the weaknesses you suffered in that previous battle?"
Liam: What was that?
Matt: "What do you perceive are the weaknesses that you suffered in that previous battle?"
Liam: He was able to hold us, magically.
Matt: "There are ways to make sure those bindings don't hold you still. There are magics that can prevent that. And if your enemy is as strong a magic user as I know, he will use distance to his advantage. Close that distance and make it your advantage. I know not quite what he's capable of in his new ascended form, and that scares me. But strike quickly, strike true. Everything you've got, work together. Communicate. And anything you can do to allow yourself preparation, and the jump on this fray, do it. That ring that Vord gave you, that'll be a boon enough. If you can catch him off guard, that might mean everything."
Liam: Thank you.
Laura: Do you know what kind of magic it is that keeps him from holding us? Just wondering. You said there were kinds, but I want to make sure.
Matt: "Certainly, there are a few in your midst that you can utilize. There's a spell called Freedom of Movement that can prevent being held or paralyzed in that way."
Laura: That's good. Just making sure. Because I thought that was what it was. I just wanted to double-check.
Matt: "Completely understood."
Sam: Well, shall we away then? We have to go now!
Matt: "I'd like to come with you, but currently with everything going on, let's be honest, if I'm not there amongst the council, it's going to tear itself apart. The sky as it is, the people of Emon are threatening all sorts of insanity. I'm sure you've seen shades of it here in a city which has faith. I myself am not completely absolved of the dreams that haunt many others. I'll be doing what I can to pay attention, but do note that ring also prevents me from seeing in on you, and I have to look out for Emon. Me and my lady both." She turns over to Kima, who is currently in the process of getting into an argument with a wyvern rider. You see her going, "Oh, come on. I can ride, too!" "Have you ever ridden a wyvern?" "No! But I haven't met a wyvern I can't stare down!" Wyvern rider turns around and chuckles and gets tripped immediately onto his face, the crush of metal on the banks and he spins over and she, (harrumphs). Spins around and joins Allura's side and goes, "I never really liked this place. Bunch of pricks. Good to see you guys."
Travis: You as well, that Holy Avenger getting some action lately?
Matt: "Oh, nowhere near enough. That's okay. You come back, and you and me will have a tussle."
Travis: God, I love Kima so much.
Matt: "Don't be all doom and gloom, all right? That's a promise. Stay alive."
Travis: (singing) Stay alive.
Laura: (singing) Stay alive.
Liam: (singing) Stay alive.
Matt: She looks up, and Allura looks down at her and rubs the top of her head for a second. Kima pulls away. "Come back safe, okay? I'm going to hold you to that." And you see there's a moment of her (sniffles), and she spins around not wanting to show any weakness or emotion. Allura looks back and watches her turn away and goes, "You'll make it through this. I've seen you do great things."
Sam: We'll try.
Matt: "And you'll succeed. You have to. You have many at your back. Look." And she puts her hand out and you can see now there's at least over 100 wyvern riders, all scattered amongst the various mountain outcroppings that are all getting on top of their great winged beasts that are fully armored with wyvern barding and armor. They're taking off in clusters and circling. "They're all counting on you. They're going to make sure that you have the opportunity you have, to put those to good use." And she glances off to the side of your pouch, closed as it is. "Come back." She turns around to go and join Kima.
Laura: Give Gilmore a hug for us, will you?
Matt: She stops and turns. "I'll do that. I owe him a visit, anyway."
Liam: And if he has any trinkets that lend Freedom of Movement, we'll place an order.
Matt: "I'll ask."
Liam: Tell him we say hi.
Matt: "I will, and I'm sure he does as well. Take care. Be safe. Come back." She turns and walks away.
Marisha: Did you see that?
Laura: See what?
Marisha: They think we're going to die! (laughter)
Sam: They're right!
Taliesin: Safe bet.
Travis: I feel pretty encouraged.
Laura: Yeah?
Travis: I don't know why.
Laura: Well, I'm glad.
Marisha: So what exactly is our plan? Is it to try and keep Vecna from gaining more forces, or are we trying to cut off Vecna and his forces?
Laura: I think they're taking care of the forces. We're taking care of the god.
Taliesin: They're the distraction.
Marisha: Then why go through the crypt?
Taliesin: We think that's where they're headed.
Liam: But are we trying to take out potential additional forces?
Taliesin: That'd be my thought. That's where I would go.
Marisha: Is that not what other people are doing?
Taliesin: I think that the surprise that he's expecting to bring to the city, possibly, especially with the information you brought, is that he would try and raise this creature and use it against the city.
Laura: So he's basically wanting to raise a giant zombie titan full of zombie cannibal dwarves, and then they'll poo them out to fight other people.
Taliesin: Somehow you make that less threatening. I'm not sure how you do that.
Liam: You know it's like when you take a duck and you put it inside a chicken and then you put the chicken inside a turkey.
Sam: Well, let's get going before he starts raising this thing. Come on!
Taliesin: Turducken of the Damned. (laughter)
Laura: Here's the thing, are we relying on Grog to stab these trammels through Vecna?
Liam: Or do we each need to deliver the one tied to our gods?
Taliesin: If we can all three in one swift movement once we've weakened--
Laura: It takes three separate attacks, I'm assuming, right? Or would it be attack, attack, attack? (laughter)
Taliesin: So much sass.
Matt: You gather by the nature of their enchantment and the size of it, you can't cluster them together like darts and jam them into the board at once.
Laura: Okay, but it would be one of those situations where you'd have to attack and then draw another one, and then attack, right?
Matt: It's possible.
Sam: Or three of us could each have one.
Marisha: But he mentioned Vecna has to be severely damaged--
Laura: Already, before we even do that.
Matt: There have to be breaks in the avatar form for them to pierce. There have to be breaks, wounds, visible cracks in the veneer of the avatar for the actual trammels to pierce.
Marisha: So we're talking about doing this. Hey, DM? Logistical question: how many days does it take me to make a 4th-level scroll? Spell. Spell scroll? 4th-level. How many days?
Travis: Say it a couple more times.
Matt: That's going to be quite a while, that's weeks and weeks and weeks. That's a downtime activity.
Sam: I thought our whole deal was we're about to go do a surprise attack? We have to go now.
Laura: We do. We're saying we don't have time to make a scroll spell, scroll scroll, spell scroll.
Marisha: Allura also said, yo, plan. Maybe plan a little.
Liam: Also, DM  did we get told for these trammels, for these harpoons, that they need to be wielded by the person associated to their gods, or can Grog chuck them all?
Matt: From what you understand there was no specification of that. It was more the fusing of the divine energy within the trammels' creation grants it with the power. The means of delivering it doesn't seem to be as important.
Laura: But it is a melee weapon?
Matt: It's javelin-like; it could be thrown.
Taliesin: We didn't make them to be aerodynamic, did we?
Matt: They're somewhat aerodynamic by nature. Once again, you can certainly try.
Laura: I'm going to pass the Pelor trammel back to you.
Marisha: I have Freedom of Movement. But I have three 4th-level spells. I can start burning into my 5th-level spells, as well, but it lasts for an hour, so I was trying to figure out if there's a way--
Matt: Pike says, "I can also do it."
Marisha: Oh! Yeah!
Laura: And it's not concentration, right, so you can also cast Death Ward?
Matt: "It lasts for an hour."
Taliesin: We'll wait until we're a little closer.
Laura: And Death Ward lasts for eight hours?
Matt: "Death Ward? Yes! They're both 4th-level, though."
Travis: These words are all great and everything but it's not going to change that we're going to have to make it up when we get there, so why don't we go ahead and fight this fucking fucker? (cheering)
Matt: As you begin to descend down the stairs on the outskirts of the mountainside, you can see the wyvern riders have now gathered into two large units, and in the distance, shrieks of wyvern calls begin to echo through the mountain range. They all begin to swoop towards the Abundant Terrace. You guys follow suit?
Laura: Sure.
Matt: All right, as you make your way to the Abundant Terrace on the outskirts of the Birthheart, there are the orchards, the large clusters of trees that you have traveled to and from before when travelling to and from Vasselheim at Keyleth's behest. And there you can see a number of the high priest druids of Melora have all gathered around the High Hierophant, and they're preparing means of transport for all the troops, wyverns included, to those that are going to make it as part of this initial front-line assault. As you guys approach and watch, you see as other generals and such begin to gather their army units. They begin to discuss orders, and a number of them in the middle of this refer over to you guys. You can see there's definitely direction being given in regards to you guys. Someone wants to stop their alarm?
Taliesin: Okay, this is going to be weird.
Laura: Is it yours?
Taliesin: It's that.
Matt: Oh, there's an actual alarm on the stage.
Marisha: Oh my god, there is!
Sam: When it turned 12 midnight, the alarm clock went off!
Matt: It's not flashing.
Marisha: That's hilarious!
Matt: Thank you, Taliesin. (cheering)
Laura: He just hit snooze, you guys.
Liam: Yeah, five more minutes, Raven Mom. Five more minutes.
Laura: It was all a dream!
Matt: As you approach, Ophera steps up. "It would be my honor to grant you passage to the base of the mountain range. I believe your other companion is approaching soon, as well." And she looks over past your shoulder as you glance and you see J'mon Sa Ord approaching. Within their arms is a small leather chest, a container of some kind. J'mon steps up and places it before you, pulls it back and backs away with a brandishing presentation.
Laura: What is it?
Matt: "May these potions keep you healthy." Within here, there are eight superior healing potions.
Laura: Whoa! Okay.
Travis: Well, we're really in for a fucking fight, huh?! When the game gives you eight superiors.
Laura: So everybody take one superior, right?
Sam: Everybody gets one.
Matt: And there's one extra.
Liam: They are so fucking badass.
Laura: Everybody gets one and there's one extra?
Matt: Yeah, because there are eight and you have seven in your party.
Laura: I'm going to mark down that Pike has one.
Taliesin: And who's made of the most glass? Who's going to get hit the most?
Liam: Scanlan is important.
Laura: Scanlan's super important.
Liam: Scanlan should have two.
Sam: Guys, I'm fine. (laughter)
Laura: I know you're very fine and you're very capable.
Liam: Also karma is a thing, and I really want to balance the scales.
Sam: Why would you feel any pressure that way?
Liam: We've got a long road of history, you and I.
Sam: We're best buds!
Liam: Best buds! Best buds, met at Big Apple Anime Fest in New York City all those years ago.
Audience: Aww.
Sam: All right, I'll take two.
Laura: Yeah. Okay.
Sam: In Marquesian I say, thank you, J'mon Sa Ord.
Matt: "Be pleased."
Laura: We are. Very.
Sam: Also, if you don't like the Meat Man, I can make him go away.
Matt: "Their business has not encroached upon the order that we maintain. Yet." (laughter)
Matt: "You'd know if it did."
Liam: (whispers) They know!
Matt: The smoldering pupils that they contain within their darkened eyes stare back at you with a curling smile.
Sam: Thank you. Let's go. We've got to get through this druidy thing, right?
Matt: Ophera backs up and, putting her staff to one side, makes a large oval shape with her fingers as she mutters beneath her breath. You watch as one of the heavy, thick trunks of the nearest tree begins to tear and crack and pull inward. And there you see in a similar fashion to Keyleth's casting, though a little more visceral, an opening reveals itself and a doorway is opened, and she goes, "Quick! Now!"
Marisha: I like your technique!
Matt: You all rush through, one after another, flanked at the end by J'mon. And as you all approach the opposite side of this portal, you emerge in a somewhat crowded forest of pine trees. Immediately, the northern air is colder, and you see drifting bits of snowfall softly coming through bits of the tree line above you. You turn around just in time to see the doorway close, and in the distance you see other doorways opening around you in different trees, and you watch as dozens upon dozens of wyvern riders and armored soldiers begin to emerge, one cluster after the next.
Marisha: Fucking druids are badass!
Taliesin: Let's do this.
Matt: You glance up and can briefly see the top northern crest of where the Zenwick Mountain pass is. Just past the canopy of the forest you're in, because you were sent to the very slim base of the Zenwick Mountains. You're within a forest. What do you want to do?
Liam: What does my Vec-dar tell me?
Matt: Interestingly enough, southeast of where you are.
Liam: Shit.
Laura: How close?
Matt: I'd say it's probably close to four miles from where you are.
Laura: Oh shit.
Matt: And slowly moving away.
Liam: We guessed wrong?
Marisha: Four miles.
Taliesin: Did we guess wrong?
Liam: Well, we don't know where this shit is that we're looking for.
Sam: Do we know where these things are?
Matt: They're both northwest of where you are, in the mountain range.
Marisha: He's passed them.
Liam: Passed over.
Matt: He's passed over, it seems.
Liam: Fuck.
Sam: What do we do?
Marisha: If we get a little bit closer, I can do a Commune with Nature spell and try and figure out some stuff. It's all I've got. I can scry!
Laura: I mean, if he's already passed by the crypts, is there any reason to go there? I don't understand.
Travis: What direction is Vasselheim from us now?
Matt: Southeast.
Marisha: The way they're heading.
Travis: Anybody else think we should fucking hop on a big-ass brass dragon and try and catch him before he gets there? What are we going to do here? There's nothing to do here!
Laura: You want us to go fight Vecna right now?
Travis: Either that, or he goes and sacks the city and we're like, "What does this tree tell me about this area?" (laughter)
Liam: Quickly, please, someone come up with an argument that counteracts that.
Taliesin: We should scry on the dwarven city if we can, really quickly.
Sam: How? We don't know much about it.
Taliesin: Do we know enough to scry?
Marisha: I can scry on Lady Briarwood.
Laura: Do it. Do it right now.
Taliesin: Ooh!
Marisha: Ooh!
Marisha: Yeah, I bet she's with him.
Taliesin: Or she's not.
Liam: We'll learn something.
Laura: Are you zoning in on the city, or are you zoning in on Vecna?
Taliesin: We know where Vecna is. We just need to see where Lady Briarwood is.
Marisha: All right, scrying on Briarwood. Oh, she rolls.
Matt: She rolls. To make a saving roll. Spell DC is?
Marisha: 21!
Matt: And that is a 22. (groaning)
Matt: Sorry. As you try and focus, the incantation completes and as your vision begins to extend it is blocked by darkness and sent back into your form. And you realize the scry has failed, the will is too strong.
Laura: Can you scry on that death knight guy that was next to her?
Marisha: Is he still with her, though?
Laura: We didn't kill him. We did not kill him. We did not hit him! We did not! (laughter)
Marisha: Oh, hi Vex. All right. I'll scry on undead douchey.
Matt: As your vision extends from you, it races through the darkness. You see dark clouds ahead. As it fires down, you look instantly within the streets of Thar Amphala. You see the cobblestone roads now cracked and broken, you see buildings appear to have sustained structural damage. You see roofs are partially collapsed. And walking down the street, strolling with a number of undead soldiers at its back, the black knight you battled before. As it struts through you watch as the towers and buildings (rumbling) shake. And shake again. And your vision returns.
Taliesin: Oh shit.
Marisha: It was shaking-- Oh, is it on the back of some giant turtle or something? (laughter)
Taliesin: We should stop that from happening.
Travis: Yeah, we're super lucky and it's just a turtle. (laughter)
Travis: How lucky for us!
Marisha: It'd be so cute.
Matt: "Then there is no time to waste." You watch as J'mon Sa Ord's form shifts and giant brass wings extend in a flash of reddish-orange energy. The nearby trees bend and break at the sheer force of the dragon's magnitude, their form expanding to fill the recent vicinity of the forest, and with a large guttural roar, you see before you the brass dragon.
Sam: Shotgun!
Laura: Hey, Keyleth? While we're flying through the air, is it possible for you to give us a nice inspiring speech?
Marisha: Oh! (giggles)
Travis: (laughs)
Liam: It's all right. It's just our small group here. No one's watching. You know us.
Marisha: Yeah. Man, inspiring speech. So we're on a brass dragon?
Matt: You can do it while you're all climbing on the back. They're waiting patiently for you all to jump onto the back of the dragon form.
Sam: If you need a second to think about it, it's okay. We can start off first and then come back to you.
Marisha: Wait, what?
Sam: Do you need a second to compose yourself?
Marisha: You know, Scanlan. (cheering)
Marisha: It's funny you should mention that, because I do need a second. I have to think about my words deeply and a long time, and even still, they come out wrong, and you're so witty and quick! And you can come up with things like speeches and songs on the fly in front of thousands of people way quicker than I can. It is not my strength, but I do know my strength, and I know each of your strengths. But not as well of each of you know your strengths as well as you do.
Sam: Sing it, sister.
Marisha: What I'm saying is, you should believe in yourselves the way that I believe in you, Scanlan. And the way that you believe in everyone else, Scanlan! Because you're all strong and unique. And we're probably going to die. (laughter)
Marisha: (stammers) Okay, let's fly! Ahoy!
Matt: With a slow, metallic, crinkling sound of brass dragon scales curling, the large head of J'mon Sa Ord's dragon form spins around to look you dead in the face, Keyleth. The same dark eyes with the smoldering, burning cores for pupils, the mouth opens and you can smell immediately the breath that has a very earthy, singed, burnt-wood scent to it.
Marisha: Ooh, cedar!
Matt: And the voice goes forth. "Very good, Keyleth. I found that quite inspiring." (cheering)
Matt: And with that, you guys can all take your 18 temporary hit points.
Travis: How much is it?
Taliesin: 18 temporary hit points?
Matt: And with that note, with one large push of their strong dragon wings, J'mon Sa Ord raises beyond the treeline up into the sky above, where you can see the clusters of wyvern riders have now also gathered to survey the territory. The first thing you notice, the southward wall, the tall, rocky landscape surrounding the fields of ice, dust, and grasses that fill this pass, you can see the mountain range seems to have suffered an immense amount of damage. A gargantuan fresh rockslide nearly a mile wide, now resting at the base of the northern mountain, you can see swallowing and burying some of the forest land. And as you glance southward into the Tordusk Pass, you can see mammoth holes in the ground, large craters of broken dirt and rock forced into dunes of mud and shale surrounding their outsides. The scars, pockmarks 200 feet across, carved into the terrain. I'd like everyone to make an intelligence check, please.
Laura: We're making a what, an intelligence check?
Marisha: Can I do a nature check?
Matt: Sure.
Marisha: Yeah? (cheering)
Matt: Vex'ahlia?
Laura: Is this an intelligence?
Matt: Yes. This is your intelligence modifier.
Laura: 21.
Matt: 21, good. Vax?
Liam: Oh, man. Eight.
Matt: Keyleth?
Marisha: I am doing a nature check.
Matt: Right, to find out?
Marisha: If it looks like a path has been bore through in a straight line, like it looks like it's going through. 24.
Matt: 24? What you can tell from a nature check is that these are not natural formations in the ground. These are blunt trauma to the ground that has caused these large craters.
Laura: Does it look like a walking path? A very large walking path?
Matt: Percival?
Taliesin: Natural 20, for 25.
Matt: Scanlan?
Sam: 19 total.
Matt: Okay. Percival. And Keyleth. And Perc'ahlia. Not you Grog, sorry.
Travis: Holes!
Matt: You do notice, upon immediate view, that these large holes are patterned, staggered about every 350-400 feet. And they do almost present the gait of a walking creature.
Marisha: (anguished sounds)
Travis: Hey! You got that big fucking turtle you wanted!
Marisha: It is a giant turtle!
Liam: The final miniature is just Matt.
Matt: "It has been foreseen!" I've been working on my costume.
Laura: Do we see anything in the air, any of those shadow creatures? Or is it just our wyvern riders?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: Natural 20!
Matt: Okay. As you lift up to survey more territory, you manage to get a brief view over the edge of that mountain range. You do not see any of the gloomstalkers that you had previously faced near Thar Amphala. In the vicinity, there is only the wyvern riders and a few errant birds that normally take to the skies that are keeping a wide berth from your sudden emerging army that has joined you in the skies. You glance over this mountain range, and you look about. About two, three miles northward, you can see the same path of destruction has torn through these mountain ranges in a sinkhole, hundreds and hundreds of feet across that disappears into darkness.
Laura: Is the sinkhole in the direction of the city that's moving right now?
Matt: No, it's in the direction you guys were planning to travel.
Sam: Oh. Maybe that's where they ripped the thing out.
Taliesin: It's where it came out. How big are these footprints, approximately?
Laura: (shouting) That's the fucking titan! It's the titan full of dwarf bodies! I just realized that! (laughter)
Marisha: It totally fucking is, yeah. Yeah.
Liam: And his name is Larkin. (laughter)
Laura: Shit! I thought it was just a really big giant, and then I remembered it was a titan.
Matt: Yes, each one of these craters is roughly 150 or so feet across.
Sam: Oh, his feet are a hundred feet across?!
Matt: 150 to 200 feet across, yeah.
Taliesin: Keyleth, how big would a creature be if it had footprints approximately 150 to 200 feet across?
Sam: At least a hundred feet big!
Marisha: Probably bigger?
Sam: Maybe even bigger!
Marisha: Can I do a nature check to find out how fucking big this guy is?
Matt: Sure.
Marisha: Yeah! Let's do this lucky one. That's not too bad. 28.
Matt: Based on your experience with various creatures that leave large tracks you've dealt with or hunted in your history with the Ashari, it's big. The legs generally are pretty thick for a creature of immense size because it has to support all that weight, but if each footfall, crater here is about 150, 200 feet wide, you can surmise the creature is hundreds of feet tall.
Travis: At least six times.
Laura: At least 600 feet tall. What did you say?
Liam: I said we're going to have to Shadow of Colossus this shit.
Laura: How are we going to fucking fight something that's 600 feet tall?
Travis: If it bleeds, we-- we're going to die. (laughter)
Marisha: Hang on, though. Caverns. Undead caverns of dwarves inside the titan.
Liam: Yeah, maybe we crawl up its butthole and kill the things inside.
Marisha: Yeah, maybe, or fight it from the inside out?
Laura: Maybe?
Taliesin: That's the most exciting Dwarven Forge thing I'd ever want to see. The Godzilla interior.
Laura: We got to get inside of it.
Taliesin: It may be all it takes.
Laura: Are we on J'mon Sa Ord's back?
Matt: Yes, right now it's large brass dragon wings (flapping).
Taliesin: Neverending Storying our way to a terrible death.
Travis: Can you detect if we're making up any ground on your target? I'm talking to you, Vax.
Sam: Liam, are we getting closer?
Liam: My brain's on Vecna, not on the city. Is Vecna doing a ride-along? Is he still moving in the same direction?
Matt: Yeah, Vecna's slowly traveling in that southeast direction.
Sam: Follow the tracks, then.
Matt: All right. With that, you hear the booming voice of J'mon once more, "Very well. Let us be off." (whoosh) And goes into a fast-paced dive. You all grab a hold of nearby dragon scale and/or loose bits of fur there are as it drives into this huge dive, this gargantuan dragon.
Laura: Trinket's in the necklace for this part.
Matt: I assumed as such.
Travis: (scared bear noises)
Liam: (scared bear noises)
Matt: You see as the wyvern riders immediately take this action and begin to swoop and follow suit, as well, following behind them. At this point, you are the tip of the spear of this assault at this very moment. You begin to follow this pattern, cross the pass, heading south-southeast, heading over and through different mountain ranges. The higher you get, the wind gets a little more intense, and the cold begins to get more biting. And J'mon dips down a bit to avoid having to thrust you into this very dangerous stratosphere. The light in this area is very close to near dusk almost, with how much the sunlight is blotted out by the cloud cover that has completely consumed the skyline, from horizon to horizon, on all sides.
Marisha: I do a bit of a Gust spell ahead of us to clear the path, give him a little more visual line of sight.
Matt: "Thank you," you hear emanate from J'mon as the cloud cover tends to spread a little bit and give a little bit of a good view. You travel on for about 25, 30 or so minutes before Vex, Vax, and Keyleth, you glance around the bend of the pass that you've just begun to curve around, and you see it: an impossibly immense entity, standing hundreds and hundreds of feet tall. A gigantic, bulky mass of jagged rock, slowly walking on two castle-width legs, each footfall sending a cloud-spray of earth into the air around it. (crashing) Quaking the surrounding lands with a terrifying crack and rumble. As the back leg lifts, sifting through the air, you can almost hear the air tear with a high-pitched whine, even at this distance, as its sheer mass and speed in which it's cutting through, breaking the atmosphere, slams down for its next step. (crashing) As you get a better view, the closer you get, it resembles the earth elemental form you've seen Keyleth take many times, only proportionally malformed, and terrifying on a scale you've never seen. Four colossal arms swing from its torso, battering rams of shifting stone, each over 150 feet wide. The closer you get, Grog, you sense a faint vibration in the Titanstone Knuckles.
Travis: Oh my fucking god. Just a note. These were made from the heart of a felled titan. I don't think it's that one.
Laura: It could be! That one's dead!
Travis: That was sarcasm, but yeah.
Sam: Are you going to take him, one on one?
Laura: Does that mean you can beat him up from the inside?
Travis: Oh yeah, beat him up with his heart!
Laura: Yeah!
Travis: (stammering) Do I notice anything?
Matt: Not in particular. You clap, and it sounds booming, as it would. The closer you get, you sense this very faint vibration to them, as if proximity keys you in, and even your simple mind, Grog, can gather that these were crafted and made from whatever it is you see storming through that ravine.
Taliesin: Okay.
Liam: Do I feel Vecna riding on this guy's shoulder?
Matt: You sense the direction and distance of Vecna directly where this entity lies. I would like you to make a perception check, please.
Laura: Do a what?
Matt: Perception check. Just him for now as he's focusing.
Liam: 27.
Matt: You glance past as your proximity grows closer and closer. One, you notice that there are beehive-type activity around the top where its head would be. There is no massive head protruding, just the shoulder shelf where the top of it becomes these four arms, and it's faced away from you, facing the way it's traveling, its arms swinging wildly with each step, slowly. Its size is difficult for you to fathom at this distance. It seems so big yet so small. As you get closer, you can see these bee swarm-like clusters resemble creatures you saw in the Shadowfell not too long ago, and there atop the shelf of its gargantuan torso, you see a cityline resting atop of this entity. There lies a portion of Thar Amphala, moving with this gargantuan primordial earth titan, risen from below its long-held tomb.
Laura: I'm going to cast Pass Without a Trace on us. It's not going to make any difference, but I'm going to do it.
Taliesin: Will that work on the back of a big shiny dragon?
Travis: Another note, to be clear, these were carved from the heart stone of a ruined earth primordial. When they're doing their thing, they make me resistant to fire, cold, and lightning damage. So. That's good.
Marisha: Yeah. Theory time. Maybe. This primordial is marching with Thar Amphala on its back to Vasselheim. If I were a god, wanting to prove that I'm awesome and do a big miracle thing, I would drop a giant city on top of another city.
Travis: Or destroy the city and replace it with that one.
Sam: We can stop this, though. All we have to do is beat the titan. I've got magic missiles that can do 1d6 damage.
Matt: 1d4 plus one.
Sam: We could be in business!
Travis: Listen. I know it seems really dire, right? But the only other option besides attacking it, in my mind, is trying to get its attention. Maybe lead it away from Vasselheim.
Taliesin: I think it's also, in theory, necrotic, which means it can be turned.
Laura: That would be one powerful fucking spell.
Taliesin: We're going to have to do something.
Laura: Pike, how strong are you feeling right now?
Matt: You look back at Pike, who's clutching onto the back of J'mon Sa Ord. Seeing this, her face pale white, eyes wide. She's like, "I don't know."
Travis: It's all right, buddy!
Laura: You got it. You're a monster!
Matt: (weakly) "I'm a monster! It's also a monster!" (laughter)
Sam: Should we land on the city on its back, or should we try to fuck up the titan?
Laura: I think we should dive into one of the beehive tunnels and stealth in. I think we should still be stealth mode. J'mon can drop us off. J'mon, you distract all of the city with all of your wyvern riders, as well, and we'll come in from the bottom up, yeah?
Matt: "I think that is a very sound plan. However," and as the dragon's head turns and looks ahead, you can see some of these clusters of gloomstalkers have broken away from the titan, swarming in your direction. You're about, I'd say, a mile and a half away from it and gaining, only because you're pushing at full speed. You're seeing now them breaking off into the clusters and you hear the distant (screeching).
Travis: I know we bamfed out here, but do we have any idea how much time we have? How far away from Vasselheim we are?
Sam: How far have we gone?
Matt: Fom what you can tell, make a--
Travis: Don't make me make it. No, I'm ready. Let's go!
Laura: I'm going to guess, too, because he's asking out loud.
Marisha: It's a good question.
Taliesin: It's a good question.
Matt: Make a nature check.
Marisha: Can I do it, too?
Travis: Negative two! (laughter)
Travis: My modifier, my modifier, so 15. It was 17; I was excited.
Matt: Not too bad! You haven't traversed this area of the north side of Issylra before, but gathering based on where you were, seeing the sinkhole, and the distance that Vax'ildan was giving you earlier, you imagine it's probably about 200 miles or so away from Vasselheim.
Travis: Okay, we've got time. Not a lot.
Matt: It has a very wide gait with each step.
Travis: But it's like Godzilla, right? It's like (groaning, thud).
Matt: Yeah! So you have time, but it's not 200 miles on normal person feet.
Travis: I mean, if he starts skipping, we're fucked.
Laura: Hey, Keyleth. Do you have any of that Wild Guide-- is that what's it called? That herb that scares away the undead.
Marisha: I do. Well, I grabbed some, so I can cultivate more of it, yeah.
Laura: You should probably do that.
Liam: They're a mile and a half away, and they see us, it looks like.
Matt: Yeah, they're closing in, there's a short time before they reach you. Remember, at this traveling speed, any sort of smoke-based censer material is going to go right behind you like a flare.
Liam: Can we turn into clouds, Keyleth, and fly off of our dragon ride and poof inside the titan?
Marisha: Let me see what I packed.
Travis: We'd be in the air, and not all of us are so awesome in the air.
Laura: We could fall off this dragon's back real fast.
Marisha: Okay. We could do Wind Walk. It's going to take a minute to transform in and out. I also have Animal Shapes.
Sam: J'mon, can you become invisible, by any chance?
Matt: J'mon, you hear the voice rumble, "I can, but only myself. I could maybe affect a couple of you."
Sam: I could affect a couple of us.
Laura: How many?
Sam: Three.
Laura: That leaves quite a few of us left. Maybe, J'mon, could you get--
Liam: Five?
Matt: "I could muster about four."
Travis: That's enough. Three and four.
Liam: Pike.
Travis: I can't add.
Sam: Or! I could make J'mon look like one of those dark flappy things and make us look like undead creatures?
Laura: They probably have seen us coming, though; they're on their way here.
Sam: Yeah. Invisible, then?
Taliesin: At least we're a smaller target, at that point.
Marisha: I can throw out a fog cloud and try and fog us the rest of the way.
Sam: We'll fly through it; it won't work.
Marisha: We're in clouds!
Sam: If you do the thing, we'll keep going through it.
Marisha: Oh. Yeah. That's a good point.
Travis: Invisible or change us. One or the other.
Liam: You could do invisible and I could fly as fast as I fucking can away.
Matt: (screeching) The cloud breaks ahead and you watch as two gloomstalkers come diving down towards the back of J'mon.
Sam: Let's do invisible!
Laura: I shoot one with an arrow.
Taliesin: I shoot the other one with a gun.
Matt: Both of you guys, roll attacks.
Taliesin: It's okay. We're going at a speed that it doesn't matter. Did that just happen?
Sam: Yeah, I just knocked over a wine bottle.
Matt: A grape juice bottle.
Travis: A grape juice bottle.
Laura: 28.
Matt: 28 hits.
Taliesin: (counting) 25.
Matt: 25 hits, as well.
Taliesin: I should have said this. I was going to burn a grit to drop.
Matt: Right, I figured that was the case. One of them gets shot with an arrow and as the impact hits, it shrieks but continues its dive. The second one gets shot by-- which weapon was it?
Taliesin: Animus.
Matt: With Animus. You watch as the detonation of the spray of black from the impact of the bullet hitting. As it shrieks, its wings buckle from underneath and it plummets about 30 or 40 feet or so and falls out of its dive. The one, however, is still diving and it's going to go for the one that shot it with its arrow. Natural two. That's going to be a 13. I'm pretty sure that doesn't hit you.
Laura: No, that doesn't hit.
Matt: As it attempts to dive past you, you duck out of the way, still nocking a secondary arrow. Its claws hits the back of the dragon scales. You hear the scrape of it going across the back, but having no effect on the hard, armored brass dragon's back. The gloomstalker then shrieks once more and takes back up into the clouds and vanishes.
Liam: Did I get an attack of opportunity on it with daggers?
Matt: You can definitely attack it with daggers, if you'd like.
Liam: Yeah, that hits. 29.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: If my friend the dragon is against it, do I get sneak attack?
Matt: No. Sorry.
Liam: All right. That is 12 for that.
Matt: 12 damage. How much damage did you do?
Laura: 15.
Matt: As it shrieks and vanishes back into the clouds above, you can see now the wyvern riders around are starting to charge in, as well. As you're rushing now, you're maybe three-quarters of a mile from the exterior of this giant earth titan.
Laura: Invisible!
Matt: All right. You complete your incantation in time with J'mon, and the entirety of your party turns transparent and is now free from visual perspective.
Liam: Did we get everybody?
Matt: You did three?
Sam: I can do four if J'mon can't.
Matt: J'mon can do four. Well, Pike and J'mon would be eight.
Sam: Okay, so we'll do four and four.
Matt: And with that, you all manage to disappear and go into a dive. As soon as you all vanish, which is interesting because you disappear, and suddenly your mount disappears, and all your friends disappear. So you're clutching on to what you hope is still dragon scales and fur as you look down and see clouds, ground, mountains, and eventual, plummeting death, were you not holding onto the back of the dragon.
Travis: (screams)
Taliesin: Wait, if our eyelids are invisible, does that mean we can't even close our eyes?
Matt: You can close your eyes.
Taliesin: No, it's too much. Too much. Not cool.
Matt: I will say, because the enchantment doesn't make you translucent, just invisible to the visual gaze, the interior of your eyelids would not be affected by it.
Taliesin: Okay. That's my worst nightmare.
Matt: Much like a Harry Potter invisibility cloak. You can still see the inside of the cloak somewhat.
Taliesin: Yeah, no, I was just having a Clockwork Orange moment.
Marisha: You make yourself more nauseous by closing your eyes.
Taliesin: That's not true.
Matt: As you go into this dive, you can hear the clashing of wyvern against gloomstalker. You hear the yelps and the shrieks of two different bestial cries. You hear shouts of humanoid and elven voices shouting as spears are tossed, arrows are let loose, and this aerial fray begins. With that, you glance forward as the dragon comes out of a dive, J'mon leading you towards this gargantuan entity. You can hear the further volume, the (massive footsteps). Even slower than that, probably, based on the gait it has to walk and the speed it's going. It is like watching a mountain with legs move. As you approach, what do you do?
Sam: Do we see a clearing? A landing spot?
Matt: You can make a perception check, guys. All of you.
Laura: 25.
Marisha: 30.
Taliesin: 24.
Travis: Six.
Sam: Eight.
Matt: Eight, awesome. All right. Keyleth. You guys, at this distance, it's hard to make out details. But Keyleth, you rolled a 30, which according to 5th Edition is nearly impossible as a DC. So. You glance about and amongst the broken rock exterior of this behemoth entity, you can see towards the base of its right leg, towards the back, a faint trickle of water, like a waterfall of pee, probably. A trickling of a waterfall that's flowing from its back leg area and then dissipating as it plummets into the air.
Marisha: That's it?
Sam: Is it coming from the city or coming from the titan?
Matt: From the titan.
Marisha: He's leaking from the back of his calf.
Laura: Let's go in there, then.
Marisha: From the back of his hip.
Taliesin: Let's see if we can land on that burst pimple, then.
Marisha: I don't think there's any landing. I think there's going to be-- yeah. But you know what? Let's see what happens.
Laura: Let's fly in close to that waterfall.
Matt: Okay, so you point this out to J'mon? All right. You hear the dragon voice boom up once more. "Hold on!" Goes into an intense dive trying to bring-- because previously you were about level, if not a little higher than Thar Amphala on the top of the entity. J'mon goes into a dive towards the hip area that you point out. The wind is pushing past you. You're holding on for dear life because any possible loss of grip not only is going to loose you from the dragon, which is going to be hard to find you, as you're all invisible, depending on the dragon's abilities, I guess. But as you begin to push down into this dive, I want you all to make strength saving throws, please.
Laura: Oh god, strength? Jeez Louise.
Travis: Natural 20.
Taliesin: Natural 20! (cheering) (groaning)
Sam: I got an 11.
Liam: I'm using my first Luck of the day. Oh, that's worse. That is a nine for me.
Laura: God. A 22 for me. I know!
Marisha: This is a group success or failure thing, right?
Matt: In almost a poetic justice way, both Vax and Keyleth begin to lose their grip, and with a sequence of moments, they both get blown off the back of the brass dragon.
Laura: We wouldn't even know. Were they touching each other? Tell me they were.
Matt: You and Vax are currently now, no grip on any dragon.
Marisha: Vax! Whisper!
Liam: I throw my dagger at that sound.
Matt: Roll an attack.
Marisha: Wait, what?
Travis: That sounds like us.
Liam: Were you saying you were going to come to me? There's the 18!
Matt: With disadvantage, because she is invisible.
Liam: That's a 20.
Matt: What's your armor class, Keyleth?
Marisha: He hits.
Laura: Good, so you can bamf to her.
Liam: That's right. 12 plus psychic damage, honey.
Sam: You guys have a fucked-up relationship.
Marisha: Our entire relationship has been psychic damage, baby.
Liam: 14.
Matt: So you take 14 points of piercing damage. However, as soon as the pain hits you, it's immediately allayed by the impact of Vax's arms wrapping around you for dear life.
Marisha: (sputtering)
Liam: I'm kissing you already.
Matt: You both are now tumbling and plummeting through the sky.
Liam: Do you want to fly, or should I?
Marisha: Hold on! And I go giant eagle form.
Matt: Okay. The giant eagle form takes flight. As her wings extend, you realize you've been clutching on to the under down feathers. As soon as the form takes, you grasp hold and climb back onto the top of the giant eagle. With that, you both (whooshing). Now, here's an interesting question, because invisibility lasts until you do an attack or cast a spell. It's a magical ability, I'm going to say that because it's a natural effect, it will not affect the invisibility, especially because you're at a high enough druid level. Specifically, shape changing is your thing. So I'll say you skirt under what would reveal invisibility. You lose it, however, for attacking her. So now there's a Vax huddled on nothing, full-on Wonder Woman-style invisible jet, riding through the sky. So as you guys coast in, the rest of you hear J'mon go, "It appears we've lost some passengers."
Marisha: No! Keep going! (cawing) Tell them! Keep going!
Liam: We're all right. Everything's fine here. Everything's fine. How are you?
Sam: J'mon, they say they're okay. It's okay, we can go.
Matt: "Very well." Continues into the dive. You guys are trailing behind at this point, but making your way down towards the hip region of this entity, following the direction that Keyleth gave at her spotting earlier. As you guys get closer and closer, you can see there is indeed a trickle of a waterfall that is dissipating, the wind is so strong that it gets maybe 25 or 30 feet down before it gets scattered into droplets.
Sam: Is it pee-colored?
Matt: No, it is actually pretty clear water. You do also glance, as you get closer, it appears to be emerging from some sort of an opening, like a cavern entrance.
Laura: Yeah, let's head for the opening.
Matt: So as you approach--
Laura: We have Pass Without a Trace!
Matt: You do, but the flying man does not. So as the rest of you make it up towards the side, and the wind is strong here, you can hear the impact of each footfall, so deafening your eardrums almost shake and are in pain with each impact, the bass of each footfall is immense. But you do see, interestingly enough, there is the waterfall coming out of it. The waterfall is careening down a broken stone staircase. The opening is about 15 feet across and about ten feet wide. It looks like it was at some point attached, before this creature arose, to another series of tunnels or wherever else this dwarven stronghold, this series of vaults that were carved within this creature's body, extended beyond its torso. This is one of the breaking points. As you glance back, you can see your brother coasting down about a hundred or so feet away. You also watch as one of the large arms swings back.
Laura: No!
Marisha: I dodge it! I try and dodge it!
Matt: I need both of you guys to make dexterity saving throws. Actually, because you're riding Keyleth right now, it's going to be on the giant eagle form, because you're clutching it.
Marisha: It's just on me?
Matt: It's just on you. It's hard to avoid a hundred-plus-foot-wide arm.
Liam: This is a save? Wait. This is a dex save, right? I'm blessing Keyleth.
Matt: As you see it coming? I'll say you have the time because it's so immense.
Marisha: Add a d4, yeah? Four, yeah! Okay, 24 total!
Matt: That's not enough. You were one away. It's a 25 DC because this is a giant fucking arm! Both you and Vax-- I don't have the dice for this, so I'm going to have to use the app. You both suffer 87 points of bludgeoning damage as the force of a mountain slams into the side of your half-elf and eagle form.
Marisha: You said 87?
Matt: 87 points of bludgeoning damage, yes.
Marisha: Okay. I immediately drop form and start falling.
Matt: Okay, any carryover damage, make sure to mark that.
Liam: Does Uncanny Dodge affect this at all?
Matt: Unfortunately, because you were relying on her eagle maneuverability, no.
Liam: Okay. Well then, I shoot the wings out immediately.
Matt: Okay. The wings emerge as both of you begin to plummet at this point.
Marisha: I'm okay.
Matt: Keyleth? As you're plummeting, Vax, I need you to roll a perception check.
Sam: J'mon, they're fine. They told us they're fine! They'll be here any second! Don't worry.
Taliesin: We did see this happen, right?
Matt: You guys are right now hovering by this and looking back. You watch this occur. You see Vax get smacked, fall, and then his wings shoot out. Vax, roll a perception check. With disadvantage.
Taliesin: Roll really high, twice.
Liam: I rolled the same thing, so it's a 24. Reliable talent.
Matt: Strangely, you're able to see a slight shift in wind to give you a brief moment to see where Keyleth's invisible, plummeting body is.
Marisha: Oh, I'm still invisible as I'm falling.
Matt: Yeah, because you haven't cast a spell or any attacks. So you manage to see this brief shimmer in space where the wind bends around her reverting form.
Liam: I pick it up, grab it.
Matt: You thrust downward with your wings. You grab her body and manage to carry. You can feel her invisible body below you as you bring it back up.
Liam: Punch me in the face. Punch me in the face right now!
Marisha: (yelling)
Liam: Hey, beautiful.
Marisha: I'm sorry!
Liam: Let's get the fuck out of here! Do a barrel roll.
Matt: All right. Another giant arm swings, but swings wide as it attempts to swing in the same place it did before. It does not seem to see the two of you quickly approach the proximity of its torso. You hear this (zooming) passing over you by about 30 or 40 feet.
Marisha: Oh, trying to go for J'mon?
Matt: No, trying to go where you guys were. You still have a visual point on it, so you direct and tug Vax by the hair and ears in the direction of the path you saw.
Marisha: By the ponytail.
Matt: Yeah, basically. And there, on the edge, you can see J'mon Sa Ord there, wings flapping, as you guys rocket down and land right on the edge of the footsteps. There's about a five-foot gap where the water isn't rushing past.
Marisha: Okay. I immediately cast Control Water and suck it inside.
Matt: Okay. The waterfall stops and bends upward and is now being held. You guys have a row of steps ahead of you that are safe enough to land on right now. They're still slick with water, but there isn't a rushing waterfall pouring over them.
Laura: Can we see where to go to? An opening?
Matt: You can see it ascends upward out of view.
Laura: Let's just go.
Taliesin: This is what's happening. This is who we are now.
Matt: J'mon, they swoop down and the giant dragon claws (clattering) grapple onto the rock side of this large titan and leans forward, giving each of you the opportunity to jump a very short distance over to these steps. As each of you make this leap, J'mon disengages and flies up and says, "I can only grant you so much, for I have many to watch out here as we distract he who resides above. However, take this." As the dragon head descends, you see the eyes flare with energy as they cast Mass Cure Wounds. Ooh, two sixes and a seven, not bad. All right, 12, 19. That's going to be 28 hit points healed to both of you.
Taliesin: That helps.
Liam: Yeah, as we were landing, the gashes all over Vax's face started to heal up a little bit, but not all the way. Then suddenly they went even further.
Matt: "Be safe, and I'll see you on the other side."
Laura: (fake-crying) See you on the other side of the war.
Matt: As you all stand on the precipice of this opening that falls off into a drop, hundreds of feet to the rocky ground below, you can smell the cold wind blowing through these caverns, emerging from this entrance you've found. As Keyleth holds back the flow of this river, you glance up the dark, rising stairs, deep into the body of the titan amongst the cursed vaults of this dwarven city, long abandoned, and begin your trek to eventually meet your final conflict with the Whispered One. That's where we're going to end tonight's game. (extended cheering)
Brian: Keep it up!
Matt: This is a little surreal.
Brian: Big time. There's some people that we really want to thank really fast. It's our crew, and it's the people who helped put this on for us. So we want to thank-- I had the list but I left it backstage because I was too involved in what was going on. Okay. Dani, Sax, Courtney, Ryan, Rachel, Ed, Jamie, Danny, Ben, Chris, Fernando, Audrey. You guys. It takes literally six months to put one of these on. The amount of work and heart and love that our crew has put into this has been incredible. You guys are incredible! (cheering)
Brian: Thank you for waiting, thank you for coming, thank you for participating! Don't worry, it's almost Thursday. Good night, GenCon! (cheering)
Sam: See you guys tomorrow. Get some sleep. Thanks so much; this was a lot of fun!
Matt: So just a reminder, guys, those of you who will be able to come to the signing tomorrow, we'll see you there. If you can come at least to pick up some Scanlan stickers, I think it'll be worth your while. I'm going to post some images of what they look like. I think you'll be happy. It's high time you got the fuck out and went to sleep. Thank you guys so much for joining us.
Taliesin: What time is the signing? That's actually a real question.
Matt: Sorry, trigger warning on that question. Oh, the signing is at 2:30, looks like, begins at 2:30. Yeah, ticket says 3:00?
Brian: Lucas Oil Field Stadium.
Matt: (singing) My schedule is wrong! (speaking) Pay attention to Geek and Sundry's Twitter for announcements. Anyway, thank you so much for coming. Hope you had fun. We had a great time. (cheering)
Taliesin: No, don't touch that!
Matt: You don't know what you've done.
Brian: I hope you brought two gallons of hand sanitizer with you.
Matt: We love you guys. Good night.

[END OF EPISODE]