The following lines contains multiple episode transcripts of a Dungeons and Dragons game played by a group of players. Each episode transcript is delimited by [START OF EPISODE] and [END OF EPISODE]. The transcripts are followed by a question about the game statistics. Answer the question based on the transcripts. Do not try to guess, estimate or approximate the result. Do not ask the user for clarification or follow-up. Do step-by-step reasoning if needed. Return the final answer in \boxed{{}}. 

The following lines contain the mapping between player names and character names.
Matt plays the character DM.
Laura plays the character Vex'ahlia.
Travis plays the character Grog.
Marisha plays the character Keyleth.
Orion plays the character Tiberius.
Taliesin plays the character Percy.
Liam plays the character Vax'ildan.
Sam plays the character Taryon.
Ashley plays the character Pike.
Felicia plays the character Lyra.
Mary plays the character Zahra.
Wil plays the character Thorbir.
Will plays the character Kashaw.
Kit plays the character Lillith.
Jason plays the character Garthok.
Chris hardwick plays the character Gern.
Chris perkins plays the character Shale.
Patrick plays the character Kerrek.
Noelle plays the character Tova.
Jon plays the character Lionel.
Darin plays the character Sprigg.
Joe plays the character Arkhan.

Use this mapping when answering the questions below.

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome to the second episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us crazy voice actor, nerdy types sit here and play Dungeons and Dragons. We'll be continuing from last week's adventure, so in the meantime, let's go ahead and show you some of the character backstory.
Travis: Right, listen up. If you have ale, then you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw. A goliath of towering height and size, this barbarian has an appetite for the two great loves in his life: combat, women, and ale. (record scratching) Wait. Easily the brains of the group, Grog is often consulted for his vast knowledge of shapes, colors, and shiny things. Also ale. In his early years, armed with his two-handed greataxe, Grog oft enjoyed proving his might amongst the ranks of his family's wandering herd, but after coming upon an unsuspecting elderly gnome in the woods, he objected to the killing of such an innocent life. A creature of impulse, Grog felt only pity for this, (chuckles) this terrified little thing. His disobedience cost him dearly. Beaten bloody and banished by the herd leader, his uncle Kevdak, Grog was abandoned and left to die. Exiled from his herd, it was then that the relative of the very gnome he fought to save, saved him. It was the kindness of a gnome cleric named Pike that healed Grog, bringing him back from death's edge. And they have remained close friends ever since. Most nights, Grog can be found challenging entire taverns to wrestling matches, ha! Or accompanying Scanlan to the nearest house where you pay for lady favors, huh. Also ale.
Marisha: A first impression of Keyleth would leave you with little information on the half-elven druid. You might even think that her social awkwardness due to her sheltered upbringing is kind of sweet. Of course, it would be unwise to underestimate her based on first impressions. (lightning roaring) Under that unintimidating, petite frame is a vicious beast waiting to be unleashed whose natural powers have made even the fiercest of champions pee their pants, literally. (giggles) Born to the air tribe of the Ashari people, Keyleth was raised with a deep love of nature and the elemental magics. It is her people's inherent duty to protect the delicate areas in Tal'Dorei, where the four elemental planes begins to bleed with this realm. Since she was a little girl, she had quite a knack for air manipulation and beastshaping abilities. Well, if you consider kittens and flying squirrels to be little beasts, which I do. (clears throat) Anyways, it wasn't long before the headmaster of the tribe, her father, Kohren, realized her true prodigious abilities and she was inveterated to succeed him as the next headmaster. Just like that, her jovial childhood was stripped and replaced with endless spell memorization, teachings from ancient traditions, and exceedingly high expectations. Every druid leader-to-be must embark on a journey to seek out the sister tribes in order to introduce and establish respect amongst the fellow headmasters. They call this the Aramente, or Noble Odyssey. When her father felt she was ready, he set her on the path to truly discovering herself. Not knowing when, or if, she will ever return. As she hikes down the mountain towards Stillben, she meditated on the task ahead. Part of the Aramente is proving yourself a strong warrior, a valiant protector, and a wise and compassionate leader. With this knowledge, one thought plays in repeat in her mind: Is she even worthy?
Taliesin: Percy was the third child of seven children, born to a noble family who lived far to the north in the ancient castle of Whitestone. With so many siblings to share the burdens of lordship, Percy turned his attention to the sciences, engineering, and naturalism. One day, a mysterious couple named Lord and Lady Briarwood came to court. During a feast held in their honour, the Briarwoods violently took control of the castle, killing or imprisoning everyone who would stand in their way. Percy awoke chained in the dungeon, only to be freed by his younger sister. Together they fled, chased by the Briarwoods' men. As they ran, Percy's sister took several arrows to the chest and fell. Percy kept running, eventually jumping into a freezing river and floating unconscious to freedom. He did not remember waking up on a fishing boat. He barely remembered the next two years, as he slowly made his way as far south as possible. Then one night, Percy had a dream. A roaring cloud of smoke offered him vengeance against those who destroyed his family. When he awoke, Percy began to design his first gun. (gun clicking) (explosion roaring)
Sam: Oh, you haven't heard of Scanlan Shorthalt? Well, gird your loins, ladies, because he has his eye on you. A talented musician, master of disguise, and dashingly handsome in his own mind, Scanlan sings songs almost as much as he sings his own praises. Born a poor gnome, Scanlan used his endless charm and soaring tenor voice to croon for coin and support his single mother. One day he was discovered by a half-orc promoter, and joined Dr. Dranzel's Spectacular Traveling Troupe, where he learned the ways of the world, and honed his skills as a bard extraordinaire. A loner much of his life, Scanlan has never quite come to terms with the violent death of his mother at the hands of a goblin invasion. While his years on the road provided many, shall we say, educational experiences with the opposite sex, deep down Scanlan yearns for the one thing he's never known, the true love of a fellow gnome. Still, Scanlan considers himself a lover first, performer second, and fighter distant third. On the battlefield, he'll support his allies, but rarely draws blood unless it's to protect fellow gnome, Pike. Count on Scanlan for a hearty laugh, a rollicking song, and a twinkle in his eye that melts hearts and makes the females swoon.
Orion: Greetings and salutations. I am Tiberius Stormwind. I hail from a town called Ty'rex, located in the heart of Draconia, from a politically respected family. At the age of 15, I succeeded in passing the Sorcerer's Rite, showing prodigy-like control of my magic. The judges and the Draconian high council were amazed at how powerful my spells were for how long I had been training. At 20 years old, I was the youngest appointed member of the magic guild in Draconian history. For the next few years, I almost went mad from the malaise of being a guild member, as it's rather boring. However, one day I happened upon a chamber, unused for quite some time. In the room were stacks of books and maps of the surrounding cities and areas around the known world. For months I would frequent the chamber, and learned of artifacts from legend. After a long period of research, I made a list of artifacts that caught my eye. I brought these findings to the high council and was told that all of the information in the chamber I stumbled upon was either believed to be fiction, or unsolvable mysteries, and hence were lost forever. I found those answers to be unacceptable. A year later I devised a ruse and managed to convince the city council to lend support in me leaving Draconia on a mission of peace and diplomacy for the surrounding kingdoms. Going from town to town and making friends and allies, in and for the name of Draconia. Being a red dragonborn, I had quite the task on my hands in that respect, but it was exactly what I needed, so I could explore the world and find these artifacts, as I felt the truth was out there. Some may describe me as buffoonish, but I say poppycock to all that. (mutters) I am much sharper than most give me credit for. I just don't pay attention to things sometimes. I've also been known to be rather cunning, loyal, happy-go-lucky, and well, dangerous. I can't help but show my true scales every now and then. But overall, I think I'm quite friendly for a dragonborn.
Liam: Never entirely welcome in the company of elves or men, Vax'ildan learned at a young age to skip past formality, preferring instead to invite himself in your door. Along with twin sister Vex'ahlia, Vax was born by a chance encounter between elven royalty and human peasantry. Raised by their mother in their early years, the twins were eventually sent off to their father in the elven capital of Syngorn. But their cool reception among the elves there never warmed, and their time in the capital didn't last. The siblings stole away one autumn night and set out on the open road. After a few years of wandering, they eventually decided to return to their mother, and journeyed back to the lands of their youth. But instead of finding their childhood home, they returned to a pile of rubble. Their mother was gone, their home burned to ash. Pressing the townspeople for answers, they learned of the day the dragon came. (loud roaring) With their ties all severed, Vax'ildan and his sister set out to find their fortune together in Tal'Dorei. An outsider since birth, Vax quickly learned to solve life's challenges in his own particular way, often by sidestepping them entirely. And when his knack for circumventing adversity isn't enough, (sword slicing) the way of blades the elves schooled him in more than makes up the difference.
Laura: Like so many half-elves, Vex'ahlia has spent most of her life suffering the cool reception of a people who don't fully accept her. Born of a human mother and an elven father, who only later in life took an interest in their existence, Vex'ahlia and her twin brother Vax'ildan quickly realized the only people they could truly rely on in this world were each other. It was at the age of ten when the two were taken from their mother, and brought to live in Syngorn, the isolated elven city for which their father was an ambassador. He quietly took them in, but always kept an icy distance, and after too many years of disdainful looks, the pair decided to leave his indifference behind, and set out on their own. Vax took to the cities, stealing small trinkets and learning the ways of the thief, while Vex kept to the woods. She preferred the isolation. Always the keen observer, she learned to hunt and to track, to spy and to shoot. And through a series of fateful events, earned herself a companion in the form of a bear, her own stolen trinket, (bear growling) to fight alongside her and protect her fiercely. Also, he is adorable and gives expert massages. Welcome back everyone. So, know that you're a little more affiliated with the characters, let's get this party started. So as a head's up, I wanna let you know, once again, we're waiting for the charity elements of this stream to open up again, since the big charity that happened a couple weeks ago. Once we do, we're gonna be taking donations, half to go to help run the channel, the other to donate to 826. Marisha will explain that here in just a second. As a head's up, Ashley, who plays our cleric, Pike, unfortunately couldn't make it again this week, because she's busy filming amazing stuff with her career being amazing. But she says she's sad she can't be here. She loves you guys, and as soon as Pike can re-enter the campaign, hopefully in a couple weeks, all awesome gnomeness shall double. So also tonight, there was a goal to try and hit 1000 subscribers on the channel. So what we're gonna do is, we only have 130 people to subscribe tonight. If we can get all 130 before the show ends this evening, we're gonna do a random selection of a person within those thousand subscribers to win a copy of the Player's Handbook signed by all of us, as well as a really, really cool image that was tweeted out earlier by Geek & Sundry, also signed by all of us. So, go ahead and pull your friends, see if we can get some more subscribers before the show's out tonight, so hopefully that'll be fun. So, Marisha, if you wanna go ahead and explain a little bit about the charity 826 we'll be plugging in the near future. Yes, 826 LA is a non-profit charity organization that helps kids though the age of six to 18 with their creative and structural writing skills, and they also help teachers and yeah. Good artsy creative things. So donate, and definitely visit the Time Travel Mart.
Sam: Wait, can we donate?
Matt: Tonight we can't donate here.
Marisha: We can't donate tonight yet?
Matt: It's not available yet. Start saving your money.
Sam: Not yet.
Marisha: But you can still go to the Time Travel Mart in Echo Park and you can also go to their website, 826LA, and I'm sure you can donate through there if you want to do that.
Matt: Yes, but we'll be getting that going in the near future. So, anyway. Let's go ahead and do a little recap of what happened last week. So the party has been hired by their friend, Arcanist Allura Vysoren, in the city of Emon to head towards the dwarven town of Kraghammer, as a good friend of hers, and one of the members of the Council of Tal'Dorei, has gone missing. This, being a halfling paladin, named Lady Kima of Vord, who was on a vision quest as part of a pilgrimage and was drawn towards some dark evil she said was manifesting somewhere deep beneath Kraghammer and hadn't been heard from since. So the party was sent there to go ahead and seek her. Upon arriving in Kraghammer, shenanigans ensued. They made some friends, made some enemies, wandered the town. Brother, sisters, walked around as if they were married.
Laura: No! (group laughs)
Matt: Bears almost got into fights in rings. And eventually the party made their way towards the bottom ring of Kraghammer proper, talking to Lord Nostoc Greyspine, who is--
Orion: That's right, Greyspine.
Matt: Yes, Greyspine indeed. Who is the head of the Greyspine Mines at the bottom of Kraghammer, where supposedly this paladin disappeared to. After having a conversation with him, a bunch of goblins and ogres began to spring from the mines and attacking the workers. The party swooped down to aid, realized that the goblins and ogre's weren't attacking, they were fleeing from something else, of which emerging from within the mines proper some strange naga-based hydra-ish abomination. The party then proceeded to slaughter it, final blow dealt by Scanlan via lightning bolt.
Sam: Hi, Scanlan here, hi.
Matt: Our resident gnome bard.
Travis: Yeah, you did!
Matt: And that's where we pick up. So, as all of you are still riding the adrenaline of the battle, Scanlan feeling the tingling in his fingers as the little bolts of arcane energy kind of (imitates electricity crackling) spark throughout, the rest of the nearby workers and miners slowly converge in and begin to walk up to the party. And someone starts, "That was great, that was well done! Fantastic! Where'd you learn that?" One of them comes up there, "Ah, I could've done better than that." And they start just shouting off at each other and pat each other on the back. A few moments of this progresses before, all of a sudden, there's a hush comes about the crowd, and you see about five or six Carvers pull their way through, Carvers being the guards of Kraghammer, with Lord Nostoc Greyspine himself stepping through. He looks at the rest of the group and goes, "All right, so you've certainly proven yourselves in battle."
Orion: Well, of course we have. I'm sorry.
Matt: "I would like to continue this conversation that we had back in my office if you don't mind." He turns around and begins to walk back.
Marisha: Oh wait, Nostoc. He's not even listening, he's just walking off. (group laughs) Yeah, mmm. Ooh, shall we turn and follow?
Laura: Are you still an eagle? Can you even talk to him?
Taliesin: Shouldn't you just go caw?
Marisha: Well I'm not an eagle. But I am still poisoned.
Laura: Oh, I can help you.
Marisha: Oh, that'd be great.
Laura: Yeah!
Laura: Hold on, I'm gonna go up, and I'm gonna cast--
Sam: Cast? Yeah, I can cast spells.
Sam: You can cast?
Laura: I can. I've got plenty o' spells.
Liam: You can kill?
Sam: All right, fair enough.
Laura: I'm gonna cast Protection from Poison on Keyleth.
Matt: Okay. Essentially go ahead and make a saving throw with advantage. This'll be Constitution.
Marisha: I made the second one.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Marisha: A 10. Plus my constitution which is two, three, thirteen.
Matt: So thirteen?
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: That'd be enough. So, after you finish casting the spell, you feel the poison leave the rest of your body. You can kind of take a breath to yourself. The rest of the miners kind of look about and Awkwardly staring back at Nostoc as he walks off, kind of looking back like, what "Are you gonna go? Talk to him?"
Sam: Yeah, I guess we should go follow him.
Taliesin: We have two very important questions.
Travis: Can't we look in the hole a little bit more.
Orion: No Grog, we need to go do this.
Laura: We're gonna go in the hole in just a minute, Grog.
Orion: Then you can smash, you'll be fine.
Travis: You promise?
Liam: You did that last night. We need to take care of business. Let's go talk to the man. I'm sure it's going to lead back to the mines.
Marisha: To the hole.
Liam: Yes, to the hole. Everything's back to the hole.
Sam: Percy, do you have something to say before we go?
Taliesin: Well, this is good. We have to find out what that was, and we have to see if he'll finally give us some of that ale, I think are the two most important things.
Laura: It was wine, I believe.
Sam: No, it was bloody, bloody beer.
Laura: Bloodline. Bloody wine, blood wine.
Travis: Bloodier, ale. Beerwine.
Matt: It was delicious is what it was.
Travis: It was really good.
Laura: Let's go talk to Nostoc.
Sam: Let's follow him, let's follow him.
Taliesin: Okay, this is what's important.
Matt: All right, so as you head back to the ramp that heads up from the mine enclosure itself to the top of the realm, which is where the Greyspine Industries mining facility is, you are brought into the building again, brought back to Nostoc's office, in which he's not sitting, he's kind of pacing behind his desk, waiting for you as you approach. As you enter the room, he stops pacing, turns around, puts his hand on the desk, and says, Please, enter and close the doors behind you. (loud thud)
Orion: Sorry, I didn't mean to slam the door like that. (group laughs)
Matt: "A flatulent dragonborn, eh?" (group laughs)
Matt: "All right." So as you close the - (laughs) Tiberius. (Orion clears throat comically)
Sam: Sir Greyspine. Lord Greyspine? Mr. Greyspine?
Matt: "Lord Greyspine is fine."
Sam: Lord Greyspine, yes. Why have you summoned us here? Is it to tell us information about what just came out of your mine, I hope.
Matt: "Well let's be clear." "We dwarves don't need help from outsiders. We can handle our own business just fine."
Laura: Of course.
Marisha: Speaking of outsiders, you wouldn't happen to have seen a Lady Kima, would you?
Matt: "As what the discussion was based on previously, you're searching for her, and last we saw her, She went down into the mine."
Laura: We already talked about that, Keyleth.
Travis: Yep, we did.
Liam: They don't like her, she was a troublemaker and she went in.
Travis: You're an eagle.
Laura: She's in the mine. We'll go in and find her. Right? Lord Greyspine?
Matt: "You're welcome to. As far as I know, she's down there somewhere. Hopefully still in one piece."
Laura: While we're there, would you like us to take care of any other problems?
Matt: "Getting to that. You see these small intrusions have been bad for meeting our quotas with the Bronzegrip metal warehouse and export shipments. Employees have been forced to collapse a non-negotiable portion of our tunnels to prevent incursions like this. Without my approval. And this is a pattern I wish to stop at once. Thus, I have a proposition for you. Now, I will give you free reign to our mines. I shall get the proper approvals to make sure no Carvers bother you as you wander the city's lower ring. And I will contract you to delve past our tunnels and investigate the source of these creatures, where they come from, where they live, and if there is some sort of a leader who gives them their commands. Eliminate them. For this, I will reward you with not a trifle sum. 25,000 gold pieces. Plus 250 gold per beast scalp you provide upon returning."
Laura: Ooh, I like this.
Orion: Grog, this seems like a wonderful job, doesn't it?
Sam: Money is wonderful. We like money. But we've been charged to find Lady Kima. We need assurances that we will find her or at least some evidence of her in the mines.
Matt: "The brazen halfling bitch went in there without my approval and wandered into the mines, not to be seen. So if she is down there, I hope she's in one piece. I can't guarantee it. But if there's any place to find her, that's probably it."
Liam: We're the group of adventurers for you. I don't know if you've heard of the heroes Emon, who just recently- I'm sure you've heard something. Word travels fast.
Matt: "Not beneath this mountain, it doesn't, of human closers."
Liam: We've just done a lot of good to the ruler of Emon.
Matt: "Great. How does that help us dwarves?"
Orion: We're saying we are going to help you, too. And everything will be fine, and we'll all be happy.
Laura: Well, we've discovered, in our past adventures, however, is that every realm seems to be having trouble with the same sort of creatures, coming up from the Underdark perhaps?
Liam: All we're saying is, help us help you. What exactly have you seen before this day? More of the same? Or other creatures?
Matt: He sits back for a second. "The types of creatures, I do not know. I mostly deal with the business and just know that there's some bullshite going on down in the mines. You could ask our foreman, Hieris. He's dealt with the cleanup each time we've had an incursion like this, so if anyone has information on what these creatures are, he'd be the one to talk to."
Liam: Sorry, what was his name again?
Matt: Hieris.
Sam: Hieris.
Laura: Hieris.
Matt: "He's a foreman at the mine proper."
Laura: All right.
Taliesin: I think this seems like the sort of job we'd want to take.
Laura: Yes.
Orion: Yes.
Travis: Will we get paid for the monsters and creatures we've already slayed?
Matt: "This deal was not sewn in yet, so no."
Travis: Oh.
Matt: "But we thank you for your aid."
Taliesin: It is customary in our culture to seal a deal with a drink.
Taliesin: As I think you are all aware.
Laura: Truly, truly.
Liam: See, I wasn't just fucking with you last week. (group laughs) That's a thing we do.
Taliesin: And since we are about to risk our lives...
Travis: I forgot you did that.
Matt: Make a persuasion roll.
Taliesin: Yes! Happily.
Travis: Roll good, it's the first one.
Liam: Come on, Percy!
Taliesin: 14.
Laura: Oh.
Sam: It's pretty good. Not great.
Matt: You can see this long, distant, angry, dwarven, mistrusting stare. Rubs his chin, his well-kept, blackened beard and goes, "Huh, but a sip, as it was a gift."
Laura: Yes!
Sam: (laughs) We'll take it. He pulls the ale barrel which you guys provided, sets it on the side of his desk with the same spigot that you had placed in when you presented it earlier and says, "Take a bit." "A bit."
Laura: (whispering) Put some in a bottle.
Orion: We have to save some for those guards.
Liam: Let me take care of it. I'll pour everyone a glass.
Liam: Oh, thank you, brother. I take my empty water flask that I emptied out before, and am smiling and pouring glasses and also squirting a little bit here and there as I want. I start to just play a little ditty on the flute. I thought we could accompany our sip with a little bit of music, not to distract you, just to-- (group laughs) just to sort of accompany us.
Matt: His nose squints at the sound. (SAM imitates a jaunty flute)
Matt: "Gnomish tunes aren't to my ears and liking." However, you do get an inspiration dice.
Laura: Yay.
Matt: All right, so go ahead and make a - (laughs) Make a sleight of hand check on this.
Liam: Okay. That's what we do, right?
Laura: Roll well. Here we go.
Laura: Oh, no.
Liam: Oh, no.
Sam: You have inspiration dice.
Taliesin: Inspiration dice are d8?
Matt: Yep, you add a d8 to it as well.
Liam: Okay, and I can add a d8 to this?
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: The ale is that good.
Liam: Oh good. Now I'm at 19. (Travis groans in relief) Hey.
Matt: As he's listening to the gnomish music and kind of pushing it away with his hands, like, "Stop, I don't- no. I appreciate it, but I don't."
Sam: All right, there's not accounting for taste.
Matt: As you do that, your wineskin goes to full. (imitates liquid sloshing) Swollen to its brim. You switch over to one of the cups, you pass around the drinks. All of you manage to get your drinks passed around.
Laura: Huzzah!
Matt: "To a contract!"
Travis: Aye! Huzzah!
Taliesin: To a contract.
Marisha: Contracts.
Sam: L'chaim!
Marisha: Love contracts.
Liam: Is that Draconian?
Sam: It's Gnomish.
Taliesin: To risking our lives. For money.
Laura: How old is Nostoc? Just out of curiosity.
Matt: It's hard to tell. Dwarves live quite a long time. He would be equivalent to like a human forties. Dwarven time, somewhere in his mid-hundreds.
Marisha: Smells like its been in the barrel for a hundred years.
Orion: It has been.
Laura: This is excellent.
Liam: Tastes like two buck Chuck. (group laughs)
Orion: Oh, I know him from Quimdendale.
Travis: What do you know of a Ballsac up in the tavern?
Matt: "I'm sorry, what?"
Travis: Do I have that right?
Laura: Ball, ball -
Marisha: Balgus.
All - matt: Balgus.
Matt: "Ah, Balgus, that's the brand of what you brought me."
Sam: You know what, I think we asked about him last time.
Laura: I think we did.
Orion: Also, may we take a short rest before we leave this facility?
Marisha: Yes, could we do that? Is this considered a short rest?
Laura: Oh yeah, that actually would be good.
Matt: If you'd like to do that, that would just be taking a short rest outside, probably not in the office proper.
Laura: Understandable.
Matt: You can leave and just sit down and get some rest.
Laura: When we take a rest, can I look for Hieris?
Matt: You can as well. So, while you guys are taking a short rest, you're able to use any of your hit dice to heal up naturally.
Travis: We don't naturally heal up?
Matt: That is your natural healing. Not to full. It's a continuation, Grog.
Sam: I will sing a song of rest. And it goes a little something like, ♫ Scanlan make you feel good ♫ ♫ Scanlan make you feel real good ♫
Orion: Oh, I feel so good.
Sam: No wait, you get an extra d6 on all your heals.
Travis: I appreciate the slow jam.
Matt: Yeah, on every hit dice, you get an extra d6.
Travis: R. Kelly would agree. (Matt laughs)
Laura: I didn't take any hit points. I'm at full health.
Matt: So you got a slow jam just for the sake of the slow jam.
Laura: That's right. And it was great.
Matt: All right, roll an investigate check.
Orion: It feels good. Real good.
Laura: Okay. Oh, 25.
Matt: A brief discussion with a few of the other wandering dwarf miners that are in the outskirts of the buildings' facilities. Eventually it leads you over to what is a small, secondary building maybe 200 yards off from the main property. That apparently is where Hieris resides and keeps watch over the entire establishment.
Liam: I've tagged along.
Laura: Knock knock knock.
Matt: All right, the rest of you going with her?
Sam: Yeah, we'll go with her.
Matt: Why not! Why split the party? So the the group makes their way over to the outskirts of the building. Opens up and a very nice, portly looking dwarf with a big tuft of a chinstrap beard. Big reddish, ruddy nose. Leather apron on. And he opens the door. "Aye, hello! Nice to meet you. What can I do for ye?"
Laura: Hi. You must be Hieris?
Matt: "I am, I am. Foreman of this here fine mine."
Laura: Wonderful to meet you. I've heard wonderful things about you.
Matt: "Oh, have you! From who?"
Laura: Uh, from Lord Greyspine himself.
Matt: "Really? Oh. All right. Well, how can I be of service?"
Laura: We were curious. I'm sure you witnessed all of those wonderful goblins and trolls and other nonsense coming out of the mine.
Matt: "Aye. Nasty lot. It always makes my weeks that much more interesting."
Laura: Weeks? So this has been happening for quite a while?
Matt: "Unfortunately, at least five or six."
Laura: And what kind of monsters have you been dealing with?
Matt: "Terrible kinds." He starts rubbing his chin for a little and goes, "We generally deal with the occasional goblin den we stumble across when opening new tunnels. That's part of the norm. Other nasty underground beasties. However, over this past few weeks, we've seen some real nightmarish things slither out of the shadows. Many goblins stitched together, like some kind of ball of screaming green lint."
Sam: Ooh, god.
Matt: "Slimes and oozes that would mutate and change color rapidly before seeming to dissolve on their own. Unstable-looking really, in their form."
Sam: Like a goblin centipede? (Laura, Liam, Travis laugh)
Matt: "If you will, aye aye."
Orion: Sounds more like some type of necromancy magic.
Matt: "Perhaps, but they're not undead, per se. They're still alive. At least from what we can tell. Whatever agony face them in their physical form."
Orion: Oh, that's even worse.
Matt: "We even had one brief run-in with what looked like a duergar that had swollen and sprouted eyes and mouths all across his body. That was a sight."
Sam: What's a duergar?
Liam: That's a dark dwarf. They're little fuckers, those are.
Matt: "Aye, duergar." And he spits to the side. "Filthy lost souls. Dwarves of old that turned to a darker god. Thankfully, they live far beneath the mountains, and usually far north enough to not worry about it. But one of them found its way up here, in this strange, awful, maw-covered form. It was terrifying. And the smell! Oh ho ho! Anyway, we've even seen a few creatures from the surface that normally aren't found down here as well, which is strange. They don't wander down. Something's bringing them. Weirdest thing. Oh! And I just heard we had some weird, many-headed serpent thing that just got killed down there."
Laura: Oh, we just killed one of those.
Matt: "That was you!"
Laura: Yes!
Travis: Our hero is right over here.
Sam: (clears throat) Hi. (group laughs)
Matt: And he steps onto his back leg, shifting his weight, and cocks an awkward eyebrow. "Really?"
Sam: I'm really strong for my age.
Orion: We were all surprised.
Taliesin: We're as surprised as anybody.
Travis: Fearsome Scanlan.
Sam: Actually, Hieris, I have a question for you. You know the mines very well, yes?
Matt: "Aye, I do."
Sam: Far from asking you to draw us a map, are there any tunnels or directions that we should avoid or particularly head towards? Anything that we should look for in terms of traps or tricks?
Matt: "Not within our mines. They're usually well-guarded. Or, they were."
Orion: Also, do you have a map?
Matt: "Of the mines? Yeah, I do."
Orion: Wonderful.
Matt: He starts going through his notes here.
Orion: I'll take that.
Sam: That's where we're going, right?
Travis: We're goin' in the hole.
Matt: It's kinda haphazardly scrawled across a piece of parchment, but he hands it over to you.
Matt: And he says, "So that's the front part of the mines. Unfortunately, half of our tunnels have been relinquished to close off some of these beasties coming through, so we're gonna have to recarve portions of the mine as we progress forward. Kind of starting at square one best we can. But that at least is what we're currently working with. There is a subterranean level as well. We have an elevator inside that brings the various mine carts to and from."
Laura: Is there a particular area on that map that most of the baddies seem to be coming from?
Matt: "No, we've closed it off each time."
Laura: Just kind of everywhere?
Matt: "Oh no, we've had a few tunnels they've come through, but we've managed to collapse those and make sure they're not coming through again."
Liam: And we noticed the, I believed it was the naga we fought, it seemed to have several extra heads stitched on. Have you no knowledge of these creatures? It seems very odd. Is there any connection in dwarven history or past? Or this is totally out of the blue?
Matt: "No no, not to my knowledge, at least. I mean, most beasts we find are in one piece, not several together. It's a bit disturbing to be honest. I told my nephew about it and he was crying for hours."
Laura: Oh.
Marisha: Oh.
Orion: (laughs)
Travis: Do any of the beasts go back into them?
Matt: "Oh no, we've killed them as they come out each time." Right, they don't take anything back.
Matt: "Not from what I've seen, no."
Marisha: Hieris, do you know if there's any other entrances into the mine? Any old secret tunnels, something that someone could be using to get in?
Matt: "Not to the mine, this is all proprietary. This is the business we run, so we don't have any internal or secret entrances. That would leave us open to a sort of a thief to come in and steal our mithril."
Liam: And what's security like on the mine? Is there any chance someone could've slipped in through Kraghammer without you knowing, or is that all locked up?
Matt: "Oh, I highly doubt that, not with the way our carvers are trained."
Liam: Understood, understood.
Laura: They are quite--
Matt: "That's what I'm talking about."
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: "Fine dwarven study."
Travis: Before we go--
Laura: Strong ale.
Matt: "Finest of military classes, aye. Proud of 'em."
Travis: What do you use for the--
Matt: "I had a cousin who was once a carver. Raised him there. His whole family brought him up on that side. Military weapon training every day. Couldn't come out and play with the rest of us. I felt bad for him. But he grew up to be a right nasty dwarf, aye."
Liam: You say had.
Laura: Where is he now?
Matt: "Unfortunately, he was slain in one of the incursions. That duergar I was telling you about. But, such is the nature of the fighter, I suppose."
Laura: A damn shame. I'm so sorry.
Matt: "I appreciate that. To be honest, he was kind of a bastard, but um-- don't miss him too much. But I appreciate the thought. That's very kind of you."
Sam: We won't avenge him then.
Matt: "I mean, still avenge him."
Liam: Literally or figuratively?
Matt: "I'm not sure."
Travis: He had parents.
Matt: "He had parents. We were related somewhat. I'm not gonna say too closely."
Laura: Can I ask a question?
Matt: "Ah, yes."
Laura: Not to you, to the other guy, Matt.
Matt: Ah, yes. (group laughs)
Matt: Yes, Laura?
Laura: When we take a rest, do we get our spells back for the day?
Matt: Not a short rest. It has to be a long rest.
Laura: All right, cool.
Taliesin: Which is why we're gonna take a proper nap.
Laura: We're gonna take a real nap?
Taliesin: I think we should go buy some potions and take a nap.
Liam: I think so.
Laura: All right, this could be really bad. I mean, we're about to put the dungeons in Dungeons and Dragons.
Travis: Let's go get drunk and go to sleep then.
Laura: All right.
Matt: There you go.
Taliesin: And stock up on some potions. Hieris, you've been so helpful.
Matt: "Of course, I'm happy to."
Marisha: One last question.
Matt: "It doesn't have to be last. You're welcome to stay as long as you like. I don't get visitors to often up here in my booth."
Marisha: You should come drink with us at the tavern.
Matt: "Oh well, I have to stay here. Work, at least for the next six hours."
Liam: All night, do you get off in six more hours?
Matt: "Aye. But I have some dried fruits. I've got some meats inside. I've got two chairs and you could fit in my lap," and he kind of pats you on the head.
Sam: I've killed. (group laughs)
Matt: "Right."
Orion: This one needs a whore, sorry. (Sam grunts)
Matt: "Fair enough." Also, apparently my mic's a bit loud. If you can turn it down a bit for you guys.
Liam: What's a mic?
Matt: "Forget that, you heard nothing. It's a strange echo in the caverns of Kraghammer. Anyway--"
Travis: Look at the time.
Laura: We have to go. We'll come see you again, Hieris.
Matt: "Of course, anytime. When we're not busy. But when I'm not busy, you're welcome to come by."
Orion: All right.
Marisha: Oh, that'd be nice.
Liam: Tell you what, when we drag our asses out of that mine, we'll come straight to you and buy you a drink.
Laura: And we'll have some of that dried fruit.
Travis: We're lying, right?
Matt: "Oh, I'll save a batch for you, you half-elf lass."
Laura: All right.
Liam: Do the wink thing you do.
Laura: I did, I already did.
Liam: Oh, you did it already. She's good at winking.
Matt: "I saw, it was a good wink. Aye. Made me tingle in my shoulders."
Travis: Just your shoulders?
Matt: "That might be the diabetes, but--" (group laughs)
Matt: "But mostly the wink, I think."
Travis: Good.
Marisha: Oh, we should get him something other than dried fruit. That's not good for diabetes.
Travis: Back to the tavern.
Taliesin: At least it means he's regular.
Travis: Or did you have something?
Sam: No, we're good. Back to the tavern. We go back to the Iron Hearth Tavern, right? Is that what it's called?
Matt: For those who are asking, that's West Country, is the accent.
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Cornwall.
Laura: What time is it? Should we buy potions now?
Travis: If we're underground--
Laura: Oh, is everything open?
Matt: As far as you guys know, it's somewhere in the neighborhood of sunsettish afternoon.
Laura: Are the stores still open?
Travis: It's summer.
Matt: You can certainly check.
Sam: It's like La Vegas, it's always twilight.
Travis: There you go.
Orion: If you all don't mind, I suggest we item up a bit, and before we get too late, and we get too drunk, Grog, go back to that lightning -- main-- manor-- lightning cage.
Laura: Oh, that place.
Matt: House Thunderbrand?
Orion: House Thunderbrand. (Matt laughs)
Travis: Where do we item up? Do we get potions and stuff somewhere?
Laura: Yeah, that's what we're looking for.
Liam: When you say too drunk, do you mean "we" the adventurers or the humans back in Los Angeles?
Orion: Both parties. Cross-plane.
Marisha: Cross-Realm.
Orion: And I tell them what happened, again.
Sam: What happened?
Orion: Well, I went to this door because--
Sam: Oh yes, yes, yes, yes.
Matt: You later rested, shot arcane magic at the home of arcane magic in Kraghammer.
Orion: And if we are to go down into this cave, perhaps they have some insight into what's going on there as well. Especially at this point in.
Laura: Let's hurry and try to get them before they go to sleep.
Marisha: Maybe they have magical items. I want stuff.
Orion: And I priorly had luck with more than--
Travis: Like plant stuff or potion stuff?
Marisha: All stuff.
Liam: Have you had any luck finding an arcane--
Laura: That's what we're talking about.
Liam: No, I know that. Did you send any fireballs at doors again like you've done in the past, or--?
Orion: Yes, I knocked, as I do often do. And nothing doing.
Laura: All right.
Liam: Got it.
Travis: So, magic stuffs.
Laura: Let's go find them.
Taliesin: All right.
Marisha: So wait-- it seems like they really don't want you in their door. It seems very heavily guarded. So what's our plan, we just going to try again?
Laura: Well it was nighttime before. Maybe they'll be more--
Sam: We're gonna do what we always do  wing it.
Taliesin: We're gonna try it again, except we're gonna watch this time. It'll be fun.
Matt: There you go.
Marisha: Let's do it.
Liam: I walk back to the door, because we're all just standing outside the door.
Matt: Correct.
Liam: I walk back to Hieris's door and knock on it and poke my head in. Hieris, I'm sorry.
Matt: You catch him with a handful of dried fruit, "Hmph! Hi!"
Liam: Just a quick question. We have no fucking idea what time it is. Because we usually use the sun. Do you know what hour it is? Are businesses open at the moment?
Matt: He reaches over and grabs this really awesomely intricate piece of clockwork on his desk. It's this brass, cylindrical piece that as he pulls out you hear this (tongue clicking), fring! And springs and things making strange whirring sounds. "Oh, I reckon it's about two hours from sunset."
Orion: Oh, very good.
Liam: Are the stores open at the moment?
Travis: Better question.
Matt: "As far as I know, aye. Depending on the store."
Liam: How much time do we have left?
Matt: "Few hours."
Liam: Oh, thank you, sir.
Matt: "You sure you don't want to stay?"
Liam: Let's go shopping.
Travis: Thank you, Hieris thank you. Oh, gotta go, sorry.
Matt: "Goodbye."
Marisha: It's the mine that never sleeps.
Matt: "Good luck."
Liam: Byeee!
Matt: You hear the door open behind you, and he starts waving at you guys. "Stay safe!"
Taliesin: Stay regular.
Marisha: Eat some veggies! Fruit's bad for the diabetes!
Travis: Oh, I put my head back in the door, and I throw him a turkey leg and a beef jerky stick. I gotta get rid of this stuff. It's been in here for years.
Taliesin: The fact that you just checked your inventory for that worries me.
Travis: We gotta lotta shit in this bag.
Matt: The bag of holding, not so much a freezer.
Travis: I didn't say it was good. I just want it out.
Marisha: And then you just throw it at him?
Matt: The mildly rotted turkey leg (imitates moist impact) across the floor. The remainder of what was once meat, now a slush sloughing off the bone as it slams across the stone floor.
Travis: It's really tender.
Liam: You're a goliath, you'll eat anything.
Travis: Yeah, those are the best parts.
Matt: You see he immediately steps back and his face squints back.
Marisha: That's not polite, Grog.
Travis: I gave him a turkey leg.
Matt: "It's the thought that counts." As he closes his door.
Orion: Hold, hold on. Before he does that, I cast prestidigitation, and I clean it up real quick.
Matt: Okay, that's really kind of you.
Orion: And I hand him a parchment and go, if there's anything wrong, just write the message on this, and we'll come help. If there's any emergency. And I hand him a parchment from the Scroll of Telescription that I made.
Matt: "All right. Thank you kindly."
Laura: How many pages is that scroll? Is it endless?
Orion: I made like 15 tickets right now. And it takes me an hour to craft.
Matt: He takes it from you with trepidation. You can see he probably hasn't encountered dragonborn often, and he's like, "Thanks."
Orion: Remember, dragonborn, we're good.
Matt: "Right."
Orion: So long. And I leave.
Matt: "Thank ye." Closes the door.
Laura: Do you want to go with him to the enchanting place or do you wanna go somewhere else?
Liam: I think I will go with him just to keep him from setting fire to the entire city.
Laura: All right, shall we all go to the manor?
Taliesin: We have time, we might as well.
Orion: Are we iteming up first?
Taliesin: I figure we do that after.
Laura: I think we'll do that.
Marisha: I'm gonna go ahead and turn into a squirrel and hide in your pocket.
Laura: I like it.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: Ugh, Grog.
Travis: What, it was a burp! (group laughs)
Matt: Technically in character.
Travis: Much worse from the other end, I guarantee.
Sam: Okay, so we're going to House Thunderbeards? Thunderbirds?
Matt: You guys head to the House Thunderbrand.
Sam: Brand.
Matt: All right. So, Tiberius leads you to where it's residing. Once again you come upon what looks like a very out of place, very well-kept green lawn that stretches for a good 60 feet before you see this really beautiful-looking alabaster and gold building, slightly domed with these four towers to each corner, with these blue pointed crystals on top of each tower.
Liam: How does the grass grow down here?
Laura: Can we see any traps or glyphs that are active?
Matt: He points out to you as you approach, there are a series of stone sigils carved into the stonework that surrounds the exterior of the lawn.
Orion: Those things!
Laura: Can we look around and see if there's any way to, a bell to ring that's outside of that area.
Matt: Go ahead and make a perception check.
Taliesin: Can I assist on that?
Laura: Yeah, please do, 'cause I rolled a one. One, baby.
Taliesin: It's a 10.
Laura: I failed it hard, I failed it.
Taliesin: If you rolled a one, there's nothing I can do anyway.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Liam: We ain't found shit.
Travis: She rolled a one.
Matt: Rolled a one naturally?
Laura: I did.
Matt: Best you can tell, stonework's pretty solid.
Laura: Cool! Hey, it's a house.
Matt: Yeah.
Matt: There are dwarves around. No.
Travis: Good.
Matt: As you look about, it's hard to tell the nature. This looks just like a lawn with a well-framed stone exterior.
Laura: Cool.
Matt: But there's no fence. There's nothing keeping you from walking into the lawn and towards the building.
Marisha: Can I do a nature check to see what light source is making all this grass grow, or if it's like magical growing?
Matt: No nature check required. There is no light source, other than the green rocks that generally permeate the interior of Kraghammer to give its kind of strange luminescent atmosphere. This kind of dull red glow that's around the entire city. Other than a couple of sparks of lantern light. There's no light source.
Sam: I wonder what Keyleth is doing. She's squeaking an awful lot. (Marisha imitates squirrel)
Laura: Oh that's right, she's in my pocket. Hi!
Travis: So we just walk up and--
Laura: Can I pet her little head.
Orion: No, I don't suggest that, Grog. I shoot firebolt.
Matt: I forgot that wasn't water. (coughs)
Taliesin: Did you actually try to walk up?
Liam: Is there a front door?
Taliesin: Perhaps you should, before you do anything. Just try and walk up.
Matt: From what you can see, There appears to be a large, almost like beachwood, Light wood double door in the front of the compound.
Laura: Grog's gonna go.
Liam: I'm gonna use my rogue abilities to walk up to the front door, and knock on it.
Orion: Great.
Laura: Sorry Grog.
Travis: I have one job. To take damage.
Liam: Can I see if I detect a bell?
Marisha: Is that a talent you picked, is that a feat?
Matt: So, you walk towards the grass. You step onto the walkway that leads towards the front of the building. As soon as you cross into the threshold where those stone sigils are, you make a dexterity saving throw. (Travis laughs)
Laura: Oh no. Roll well, my brother.
Liam: This is really not good for their business. [LIAM and LAURA groan] (group laughs)
Liam: 12.
Matt: 12.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: So, as you pull your cloak around you and take a few steps to jaunt upwards, suddenly there's, you guys hear it. The strange (tongue clicking) sound, and a poof, poof of arcane blue energy kind of, just pulses around his feet. You instinctively begin to pull back, but as you do, there's a blast of blue electric energy that (imitates explosion), streaks out from all around you, shocking your body and throwing you about 15 feet back, straight onto your shoulders. You (imitates grinding) skid to a halt (imitates thud).
Liam: Which one of these do I roll for damage?
Travis: Electrified sound effect.
Matt: You take...
Liam: Higigigigi!
Matt: 14 points of lightning damage.
Liam: All right.
Orion: This is as I'm paused telling him not to do that.
Matt: Yes.
Orion: Don't!
Travis: Should've let me go.
Matt: Your muscles eventually relax.
Orion: As I was about to say, that was going to happen.
Travis: We have a flying carpet.
Laura: Hey, we have a flying carpet! We have a flying carpet.
Orion: Let me try one thing that I didn't think to do last time. I'm gonna cast Dispel Magic on the runestone.
Liam: Don't tase me, bro.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and--
Travis: It's really not that bad.
Matt: Let's see.
Laura: Pull it out.
Travis: What?
Laura: Pull out the flying--
Marisha: Phrasing.
Sam: Going for the handbook.
Matt: Yeah, so we know what's going on.
Travis: Oh, the magic carpet, hold on.
Sam: Guys, don't forget to subscribe to Geek and Sundry.
Laura: Oh yeah!
Orion: Oh, and I cast it at my fourth level slot.
Travis: You wanna fly it up to the door?
Marisha: What are you casting?
Orion: Dispel magic.
Matt: All right, make an arcana check.
Laura: It can't carry you, you're too heavy.
Travis: I said you, not me.
Laura: Oh, gimme that flying carpet.
Travis: That's what I said.
Orion: 13.
Matt: 13?
Orion: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. As you concentrate and these kind of shimmering bands of arcane energy wave off your hands toward the enchantment, they impact and dissipate without effect.
Orion: Are they fourth level or higher?
Matt: They seem to be.
Orion: Fuck.
Laura: I hop on the flying carpet.
Matt: Okay, so you pull the flying carpet, Mary Poppins-style, out of the bag of holding. (imitates soft thud)
Laura: Yes. And see if I can fly up and over to the door.
Travis: Do you wanna tie a rope around your waist in case it goes bad?
Orion: It's a flying magical carpet.
Laura: Somebody. Oh. Is that bad? Is that a bad idea?
Travis: No, do it.
Orion: It's a flying magical carpet.
Sam: What could go wrong?
Marisha: I think you'll just, like, hit a wall.
Laura: What if the flying carpet gets ruined?
Sam: Let's not do that then.
Travis: Oh my God, really?
Liam: It's not gonna be ruined.
Marisha: Wait, wait, wait, I'm in squirrel form. So I go out.
Laura: Oh, and you're with me. Let's both fly to the door.
Liam: I have nine healing potions--
Sam: Hey, hold on, hold on.
Travis: What what, you turned invisible and walked inside a house last time.
Sam: Yeah, I can do whatever we want. Do you want me to knock on the door, is that what we're trying to do?
Laura: Oh yeah, use your--
Sam: Okay, so yes. I send an unseen servant to knock on the door.
Travis: What kind, like a buddy?
Laura: Oh, he tried it before.
Matt: Where do you create the unseen servant?
Sam: Where do I create it?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Right on the doorknocker. Like, hanging on the doorknocker.
Travis: Feet touching the ground?
Matt: All right. So the distance unseen servant can be summoned--
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: I believe you may be able to actually summon it within the boundary of those arcane sigils.
Travis: I'm just sitting back here holding the carpet. ♫ I can show you the world ♫ (group laughs)
Matt: 60 feet, so yeah. You go ahead and you walk up to where that sigil is, you finish your spell, you cast unseen servant.
Sam: ♫ Unseen servant, ho ♫ (group laughs)
Matt: Which he says every time.
Sam: Yes.
Matt: Every single time. You see this strange shift of air as some sort of humanoid form then materializes in the opposite side of this boundary and stands at your ready and command.
Sam: We still haven't knocked on the door, correct?
All - matt: No.
Matt: It's about a 60 foot walk.
Sam: I command the unseen servant to (imitates knocking)
Matt: It kind of saunters over. You guys see this kind of shifting, barely, barely visible form make its way up to the front door. In the distance, you hear a dull (knocking). Eventually, the door slightly opens. And you see a hunched figure with bright white, chalk-white hair, kind of look out the doorway, "Oh, where's he come from?" Looking at the form in front of him.
Sam: Oh, the ghost.
Matt: Yeah. "That's where you come from. All right."
Sam: Hello!
Orion: I'm waving. Hello.
Matt: Opens the door, comes out. You now see this dwarven figure hunched, very, very old, with a long, very, very well-crafted brass staff, looks like a black or purple gem at the top. Spectacles at the tip of its nose. And it begins to kind of shift its way over towards you. (breathes heavily)
Orion: Watch out for that rune. It's still on.
Sam: I think he knows that. (laughing)
Matt: Eventually making its way.
Travis: He's coming towards us?
Matt: Yes. Walks right to the edge of the sigil. Puts his hand up, and the unseen servant vanishes. He goes, "So, you have my attention."
Orion: Well, it's a pleasure to meet you. My name's Tiberius Stormwind, and these are my friends.
Matt: He puts his hand up and there's no sound coming out of your mouth. (Travis laughs)
Sam: Maybe we should listen.
Matt: "This is the one who would-be attacked our home abode not more than a few hours ago."
Sam: He has emotional problems.
Matt: "Apparently. He needs to learn respect for other people's property."
Laura: Yes, he does.
Liam: We agree wholeheartedly. He's dragonborn, he's weird. He's a little weird. We're sorry to interrupt. I don't know, it's dinnertime, I think. I don't know if you've heard yet, it just happened. We just fought some sort of many-headed beast down at the mines, and Lord Greyspine is sending us in. So before we go, we were sent here. We were told you were the dwarf to speak to if we needed--
Laura: To know about the magical entities.
Liam: I think it was just to get shit. (Travis and Sam laugh)
Liam: To get ready for those entities.
Matt: "If you're looking to but trinkets and magical oddities--"
Laura: Trinkets!
Matt: "You've come to the wrong place. This is a house of study. This is where hardworking dwarves of arcane persuasion put their lives towards pursuing--"
Travis: Say something!
Matt: "--the magical forms and fields that--"
Sam: And we have come to seek your knowledge.
Matt: "I'm sorry." Your sound is back.
Orion: That's what I'm trying to say is that I came here looking to ask about the arcane studies. I'm extremely interested in that. When I heard that your house Was the only one that was in that particular study, I was immensely intrigued. I respect the arcane arts so much that it's, well, it's been my life. And right now, we're in bit of a situation where we have to go slaughter a bunch of nasties in apparently one of your mines. And we don't know the source. And it appears to be of an extreme arcane nature of the dark sense, and I figured we could come to you for help and some kind of guidance. And I will-- Scanlan, will you stop it! And it appears that you very well know something that we could learn from, with all due respect, of course.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Marisha: Holy shit. What the fuck. Breathe.
Orion: 11.
Travis: God, what is with these rolls?
Taliesin: We've been middling.
Laura: Terrible rolls today.
Matt: The dwarf gives you a disapproving brow shift and goes, "Look, I mean no disrespect. But understand, this is a dwarven house of arcane practitioning and study. Don't see any dwarves among ya. I think our business here is concluded." "If you're looking to buy stuff, we produce and sell through the Value of Valor house of sale."
Travis: Oh Tiberius, can't you become a dwarf?
Taliesin: Of course, sir, we completely understand if you're not up to such a challenge. It makes perfect sense, and we'll be more than happy to go and buy some wares somewhere else if this is too much for you.
Matt: "Bah! Challenge."
Orion: I will send you my associate. The dwarf turns around and begins walking away with his staff.
Laura: What a beautiful staff that is.
Orion: I'm gonna cast Alter Self on myself to be a dwarf.
Travis: And jump behind me, and act like you just--
Laura: Actually sir, we do have a dwarf with us.
Marisha: No wait wait wait! Cast it on me! I'm a squirrel in her pocket.
Orion: Oh shit, I cast it on her instead. (loud thudding)
Laura: We have a dwarf with us who wanted to actually say hello to--
Travis: (whispering) What's your dwarf name?
Matt: Turns around. Saunters back.
Orion: Keyleth, where have you been?
Marisha: I guess it's Keyleth.
Matt: Looks at you.
Travis: Keyleth Kraghammer.
Sam: You better fucking speak dwarvish.
Matt: Smiles for a second as he looks at you and goes, "Ah, how nice to meet you. Where are you from?"
Marisha: (bad Scottish accent) Oh, hello. (group laughs)
Laura: Oh, shit. (Liam speaks in Swedish-accented gibberish)
Sam: Ya, from Sweden.
Travis: I'm gonna choke on a chip. (coughs)
Marisha: Keyleth is not good at this.
Liam: Roll with it player, roll with it.
Marisha: I hail from the mountains up north.
Orion: She had an accident on the way over here. We were hoping maybe--
Matt: Roll a persuasion roll with disadvantage. (all talking and laughing)
Matt: You. Roll with disadvantage.
Liam: Let the dice act better than us tonight, please. (group laughs)
Travis: (high-pitched voice) Oh, hello!
Marisha: Wait, persuasion--I don't have--oh, wait. I have a zero. Eight.
Matt: That's your first roll. Now roll again.
Marisha: Oh, I have advantage.
Matt: No, you have disadvantage.
Marisha: Oh, disadvantage. So eight.
Matt: Eight. He goes, "I've been practicing the arcane arts for over 250 years."
Marisha: And I've been practicing my Cornwall accent for five minutes. Shit.
Matt: He raises his hand, and the Alter Self spell dissipates. Where stands Keyleth.
Sam: Oh Keyleth, you've been lying to us this whole time? (Travis laughs)
Orion: Who are you?
Sam: We thought you were a dwarf.
Liam: Vax steps forward, steps in front of Keyleth and says, Good sir dwarf. Clearly we are idiots. We are--
Matt: "That's the first true thing you've said since you've called me out of my home."
Liam: Stay with me on this. We are strangers in a strange land. However, we are working with Lord Greyspine to empty your mines and end the evil that is spewing forth from them. Now I know that we are a bit stupid-- (group laughs) --in a number of ways.
Laura: But we fight well.
Liam: But we fight well, and we have the best of intentions, and when it counts, we're there. We just need a little bit of help going into the mines. And again, Lord Greyspine himself sent us, so please excuse my--
Taliesin: Cornwall?
Liam: --challenged friends.
Travis: My cornhole friends.
Liam: We're here to help. I promise.
Travis: That's a very Disney moment.
Liam: Wink, wink, wink.
Laura: I wink twice. Make a persuasion roll at disadvantage.
Laura: Can I assist him 'cause I winked?
Matt: No.
Laura: Damn it.
Travis: It's a powerful wink.
Matt: It's a powerful wink, but not this powerful. Not the way this conversation's been going.
Travis: Yeah, apparently not. Oh hello!
Liam: Best roll of the night. I rolled a 20 and a 17. So 19.
Matt: 19. He glares at you two and goes, "I've said my piece. Good luck to you all." (group groans)
Sam: Further.
Laura: If you had gotten the 20.
Liam: How about a chocolate-covered mallomar?
Sam: I'm gonna have one more try at this.
Matt: He turns around and starts walking away.
Sam: There must be so many arcane things down there that we will discover and bring to you upon finding them.
Laura: Good call, Scanlan.
Sam: Things that you could use for your research. Historical items.
Matt: As he's still walking away, you hear him shout over his shoulder, "And when you bring them, then we'll talk!"
Sam: Okay, that's fair.
Matt: "Till then, good day, and don't bother me when I'm eating."
Laura: Thank you, Lord Thunderclap.
Liam: This game has consequences.
Matt: At which he shouts again at a booming, booming prestidigitation voice, "It's THUNDERBRAND!"
Laura: That's what I meant.
Matt: You hear the door slam, boom!
Travis: That was fun.
Sam: That was great!
Laura: Should we go buy some potions then?
Taliesin: Yes, let's go buy some potions.
Sam: He gave us a little bit of information. The valve of valva, what's it? Valor of -
Travis: Vulva?
Sam: The place to place to go buy potions.
Orion: The House of Valor.
Sam: No, the valva--
Orion: It's not the House of Vulva, Scanlan.
Matt: The Value of Valor.
Laura: The Value of Valor!
Sam: The Value of Valor!
Travis: If you want to visit the House of Vulva, you and I can go later but not now.
Laura: The Value of Valor, let's go find that.
Orion: (in Marisha's bad accent) Let's go to the North.
Marisha: I'm sorry. I didn't think about the fact that I was gonna have to do an accent. I'm not good with that stuff.
Laura: It's okay, Keyleth.
Travis: Women, fighting, ale, that's my job.
Matt: So after a bit of discussion, you manage to make your way around town. You eventually find your way to the Value of Valor, which is a--
Laura: Terrible.
Matt: (laughs) It's a stone building. Like reddish brick, it looks in construction. With fine purple--
Laura: Please be open, please be open, please be open.
Matt: (laughs) Fine purple tapestries in the front that show various battles of old dwarven history of two glowing enchanted permalight lanterns hanging from the front.
Taliesin: Classy.
Matt: And an entryway that is currently open and a warmly-lit interior welcomes you.
Travis: Awesome.
Liam: So easy.
Sam: Hey, before we go in there and just make asses of ourselves, As a group, what do you think we need to get down into these mines?
Laura: Potions.
Taliesin: Healing potions.
Sam: Healing potions. Some light sources--
Orion: We don't need that.
Sam: Climbing anything?
Laura: I have climbing gear.
Sam: I have some climbing gear, but--
Laura: That's included in the dungeoneering kit, right?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Oh, what about something for breathing?
Sam: Like what if we get trapped down there with no air?
Orion: Don't worry about that.
Laura: She can make plants, and we'll get plenty of oxygen.
Marisha: Oxygen's good, although if we have something to help with poison, that might be good. Can we get some antidotes?
Liam: Vex. How much gold do we have at the moment?
Laura: That is a wonderful question, brother.
Orion: By the way, I pull out a bottle of air. Just an empty bottle and go: and plus, we have this.
Laura: We will more than double our gold if we take this mission.
Travis: So we got like 24,000 gold pieces?
Laura: Less than that.
Travis: 23 thousand.
Laura: Less than that.
Travis: 22 thousand?
Liam: More than double, that means it could be one thousand. 'Cause anything is more than double.
Laura: I don't like sharing.
Travis: Math is stupid.
Sam: All right, we go into the House of Vulva.
Matt: All right.
Sam: Open your vulva!
Matt: That's not what it's called. (group laughs)
Travis: Are you sure you don't wanna think about renaming it now?
Matt: It's the Value of Valor guys, come on! (whines)
Matt: All right, so.
Taliesin: You're tearing the party apart.
Liam: Tearing me apart, Lisa.
Matt: A giant boulder falls out of nowhere and crushes Grog. (group laughs)
Matt: So you make your way inside. Suddenly, hit with the smell of heavy incense and jasmine. This is the equivalent of a Psychic Eye Bookshop.
Orion: Groovy!
Marisha: Oh, we were just there.
Taliesin: We were just there.
Travis: Nag champa.
Matt: You walk inside. There's not a lot of folks inside looking about the establishment. But there is one person sitting at the front desk, which is a beautiful long oak table with a red trim that hangs to the ceiling. Not a dwarf, actually. What you see there appears to be an elven individual, sitting at wait, hair pulled back behind the ears. Very, very slight, thin build. And smiles as you enter and says, "Welcome to my establishment, may I help you?"
Laura: We both stand a little taller, and try to look more noble.
Liam: Hello.
Matt: "Yes."
Liam: It's a beautiful shop you have. It's so startling to find an elven establishment here in the middle of Kraghammer. How did this come about?
Matt: "Well. They didn't have one." (Travis and Sam laugh) "And I found there was perhaps money to be made in starting one. I've been here for over a hundred years."
Travis: Oh sh-- Are you guys that old?
Liam: No, we are not.
Orion: So business is good?
Matt: "Dwarves have a hard time buying from those who are not dwarves. But I've made my established connections with business individuals. So, what can I help you with?"
Taliesin: We're in the market for some healing potions to start with.
Travis: Yep, yep.
Matt: "Of which intensity are you looking for?"
Travis: Level three for this one, please. Two.
Matt: "So looking for a superior healing potion."
Travis: Yeah, superior.
Matt: "I've only got two of those currently."
Laura: They're expensive, Grog.
Marisha: We don't have Pike, though.
Matt: "I can sell you the two superior healing potions."
Marisha: I'm still not feeling well.
Matt: "Those will run you 1,500 gold pieces each."
Travis: Fuck! Really?!
Taliesin: This is why you buy medium healing potions.
Marisha: On second thought, I'll just read some books tonight,
Travis: I take damage fast.
Marisha: Refresh myself on my healing spells.
Laura: Can I ask your name?
Matt: He gives you a keen look and says, "Tremaine."
Laura: Tremaine.
Travis: Oh, here we go. (Liam and Taliesin laugh)
Marisha: It's what she's good at.
Travis: Everybody take five while we haggle.
Laura: I'm just saying. We're heading into the mines. We are going to encounter very many arcane objects potentially. In fact, Lord Thunderbrand sent us over here. That's his name, right?
Travis: You got it.
Taliesin: You did it right.
Laura: Sent us over here telling us to find his wares here. And we've made a deal with him that if we find arcane objects we could potentially, you know, I lost track of what I was saying, but you get the idea.
Sam: Oh boy.
Orion: What would you suggest? And do you know of any things we should particularly buy before we leave going into the mines and encountering nasty naga-type creatures and other kind of things.
Matt: "Superior healing potions."
Travis: How much are they each, 1500?
Matt: "1500 gold pieces."
Travis: I'll take one for me, thank you.
Matt: "Very well."
Laura: We'll very much like to perhaps make a deal with you, that we'll bring you objects of arcane nature for a discount on your wares.
Matt: Make a persuasion roll.
Travis: Oh shit. I just paid for--
Laura: Oh, no you didn't. Not yet.
Liam: Roll, sister.
Laura: Oh, come on, no whammies, no whammies. Okay, well. 15, hm?
Travis: He's an old elf.
Matt: He says, "And I appreciate this perhaps offer. Once you return from your mines--"
Laura: I know, I know, I know.
Matt: "--with these magical accoutrements, you are more than welcome to bring them here, and we'll make a deal."
Laura: How many dragons have you come across, sir? Are you interested in dragon parts?
Travis: Oh, we have a lot of dragon bits.
Matt: He extends his hand to a shelf on the side labeled, "Dragon Parts."
Laura: Oh. (group laughs)
Laura: Lovely.
Matt: "And to answer your question, three."
Laura: Oh, really?
Travis: What about basilisk eggs?
Laura: What kind of dragons, actually?
Matt: "What was your question, sir?"
Travis: We have also, if you're interested in trade, basilisk eggs and parts of an umber hulk.
Liam: And a troll dick.
Travis: No, that's gone. (group laughs)
Travis: We flogged him with it and then it disappeared.
Liam: I detract my offer.
Travis: It was used very well.
Matt: He gives you a very concerned look.
Travis: I'm a collector of sorts.
Matt: Both of you. And he goes, And he goes, "I work in trade, meaning gold pieces for my wares."
Laura: Yes.
Matt: "If you have interest, purchase. If not, I have other business to attend to."
Sam: Any other healing potions to buy? Come on people.
Laura: Maybe a moderate.
Liam: All right, well friends, we're about to descend into hell itself, so I reckon we should probably pay the price.
Taliesin: Two moderates.
Matt: Greater. In the new edition.
Taliesin: Greater.
Marisha: How much are the greaters?
Matt: "The greater healing potions run 300 gold apiece."
Laura: Oh, let's get a few of those.
Travis: I need like three of those.
Matt: "So, three?"
Travis: Yeah, three.
Laura: Do you have any arrows that--
Travis: Well let's do the potions first.
Laura: Okay okay okay, two for me.
Matt: "So, five."
Taliesin: Two for me as well.
Matt: "Seven."
Travis: Keyleth.
Marisha: I'll take one.
Matt: "Eight."
Travis: Tiberius?
Matt: "Anyone else require a moderate healing potion?"
Travis: Tiberius?
Orion: I could take one.
Matt: Pathfinder to 5E.
Travis: Scanlan?
Sam: Well, do we have ours leftover from what we had before? [LAURA, TRAVIS, MATT] Yes.
Sam: Then I'm fine.
Travis: Vax?
Laura: He's Vax.
Liam: No, I'm good actually.
Laura: He's Vax.
Travis: Oh, my intelligence is six.
Liam: I'm so fast I don't really use them that much.
Travis: So nine.
Liam: You'll get to that point as well.
Laura: Nine potions then.
Travis: Nine times 300, work that out.
Matt: As he pulls up his arcane calculator.
Laura: So 2500 for all nine then.
Taliesin: It's an abacus, God, abacus!
Travis: I believe it's 2700 gold pieces?
Laura: Why would you do that? I was trying to make him--
Matt: "It is 27."
Matt: He says, "Impressive for a goliath. I don't mean to assume, but in my experiences, your kind is--"
Travis: It's Professor Grog, actually.
Orion: All right, calm down.
Matt: "2700 gold pieces for your nine greater healing potions."
Laura: All right, 27. Do you have any arrows that perhaps have magical properties?
Orion: Enchanted arrows is what she's asking for.
Laura: Yes.
Matt: He kind of glances over his shoulder and says, "Ah, we haven't had much a request for arrows in a while. We have bolts for crossbows, as that seems to be the staple for the carvers of the city. I have two sleep arrows, perhaps, if that is of interest to you."
Orion: Yes they would be, very much.
Laura: And what would you charge for those, sir?
Taliesin: Ooh, I should build some interesting arrows.
Marisha: You should.
Matt: Arrows. (whispering and muttering)
Matt: "That would run you 250 gold per arrow. I have two currently."
Laura: All right, all right, I'll take 'em.
Matt: "All right, 500 gold. With that, that is a total of 3200 gold pieces."
Travis: Scanlan, underwater breathing or air, oxygen supplies?
Orion: Dear sir, have you happened upon any--
Travis: Ask with your fancy talk.
Orion: --relic or artifact around here, or heard of something called the Pale Stone?
Laura: Sorry, you have to watch us buy things.
Orion: This is a rare artifact I've been looking for for quite some time.
Orion: I figured an environment like this might lend to something.
Laura: What is it a mess you've made?
Matt: "I don't believe I have, but should you come across one, I would be interested to have a look."
Orion: Oh, you appraise?
Matt: "If you don't mind."
Orion: Very good.
Sam: And do you have anything for adventuring underwater or for helping to breathe in tight spaces?
Matt: "Mm, potion of waterbreathing, I do happen to have."
Sam: A potion of waterbreathing?
Matt: "Yes, I do."
Sam: How much?
Matt: "I have four of them available, and they run 500 gold apiece."
Sam: Jesus.
Travis: We'll take it. We got all this platinum I forgot about.
Sam: Take one, two, one?
Laura: Don't say that!
Travis: He can't hear--
Orion: I don't need one. I bring out my bottle of air. And I go, "I have this." And I put it back in.
Sam: I'm okay as well. You want one, Grog?
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: All right, we'll just take one of those.
Travis: Just one?
Sam: Well, I don't need it. He doesn't need it.
Travis: We'll take two.
Sam: Two.
Matt: "1000 gold. That brings us to 4200 gold."
Laura: Wait, 42?
Matt: "Yes."
Liam: Have you any elven gear for a son of Syngorn?
Laura: Are you taking it off of your pot now?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: He gives you a keen look and goes, "We don't get many requests for this, but I think this may fit you." And he reaches below and pulls up a fine piece of mithril chain, elven in make.
Laura: That's what I'm wearing.
Matt: Mm hm.
Travis: Show-off.
Matt: He says, "Would you perhaps be interested in this elven chain?"
Liam: It's beautiful. I am a bit of a light-footed one. Would it suit me?
Matt: "Hm. Chain does make a bit of a racket. Might not recommend it, unfortunately."
Liam: All right. I'll pass.
Travis: You couldn't buy it for me?
Laura: It won't fit you, it's for elves.
Liam: You're gigantic.
Travis: Could go on my pinky or something.
Laura: All right, cool.
Liam: Could fit on your left nut.
Laura: Well, thanks.
Travis: That's an important nut.
Matt: He goes ahead and accepts your gold. Go ahead and mark off 4200 gold for those.
Laura: I did already.
Matt: All right, very well. "Thank you for your patronage. I look forward to hopefully having you back when you return with whatever artifacts you manage to find."
Travis: Thank you, you're very nice.
Laura: Big expensive artifacts.
Taliesin: I say, you're one of the most charming people we've met so far down here.
Travis: And it smells pretty in here.
Matt: "Well of course, they come in rare ordinance in this city, it seems." You hear under his breath a little bit of a mutter. Apparently it's like elves don't like dwarves, it's weird.
Travis: Do we sleep before we get to go kill shit?
Taliesin: We're gonna go sleep.
Travis: Well can we go do that?
Laura: Let's go sleep and then get up in the morning and go down and kill things.
Taliesin: And I'd love to do a crafting roll right before I go to sleep just to put together a little thing.
Matt: What would you like to put together?
Taliesin: I'd like to try and build a bolo arrow, a trapping arrow.
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: Interesting, okay. As you guys head back to the inn where you've rented rooms for the week,
Travis: You clever fucker.
Matt: Which would be at the Iron Hearth Tavern.
Travis: Is Ballsack in there? When we walk in?
Matt: Balgus is not in the tavern, no.
Travis: He's not?
Orion: He's Balgus, Grog.
Matt: No, sorry.
Travis: Really?
Matt: He's got a home.
Travis: Yeah, but doesn't mean he have to go to it.
Matt: True.
Laura: I walk Trinket down into the storage area that he can stay in.
Matt: [bear noise] Trinket goes down begrudgingly.
Orion: Damn it.
Laura: I look around for something that can look like a pillow for him.
Matt: You find a couple of sacks of grain that can probably work.
Laura: I put them down and make them comfy for him.
Matt: Okay, you think they're probably not gonna last the night with those bear claws. But you don't care, it's not your grain.
Laura: That's fine. Also, I feed him.
Matt: Okay, Trinket is very happy. (imitates bear eating) Tears into some meat. You guys make it back to the tavern for an evening's rest. For you--
Taliesin: Not a super complicated thing, but, you know, I've gotta--
Matt: Go ahead and make a Tinker's Kit roll.
Taliesin: What am I rolling with my Tinker's Kit? I've never done this before.
Matt: For this, I would go ahead and make it an intellect modifier to your roll.
Taliesin: Intellect modifier?
Travis: Rock that shit, Perce.
Taliesin: And I'm spending my bonus die as well.
Laura: Oh, we have bonus die, don't we? From Scanlan.
Taliesin: Thank God, because I rolled really badly. 10.
Matt: 10? You spend and toil away for the next four or so hours trying to find a way to get this trigger to work. Twice you nearly sprain a finger. You manage seemingly get it to function, then the arrow itself splits and shatters. You can see there being something to it, but this night it's not gonna come to you.
Taliesin: I'm gonna have to try again later. Okay, that's fine. It's on the list. That was a terrible roll.
Matt: It was a terrible roll.
Marisha: It's been a bad day for rolls. It's been bad day for rolling.
Laura: Fresh start in the morning.
Sam: Well, tomorrow is the day that it counts, because that's when we begin to crack some heads.
Laura: When we could die.
Taliesin: Out with this system, new dice.
Marisha: To be fair, it's been a long day. I'm still bleeding everywhere.
Sam: Should we rest and get on with it?
Laura: Let's do it!
Sam: Or should we visit some whorehouses?
Travis: Nah, let's sleep.
Sam: Let's just sleep tonight.
Laura: Just sleep and go.
Travis: Oh, they're still tired from the other night.
Sam: Oh yes, one of them battered me quite--
Travis: I don't know what this is.
Sam: That's me getting beaten up by a whore dwarf.
Travis: Oh, it's you getting the elbow drop.
Travis: She's giving you the Randy Savage from the bedpost.
Travis: Oh yeah! (crosstalk)
Travis: We're sleeping now.
Matt: All right. So you guys go to sleep. Wake up the next morning fully healed, spells restored, well rested and ready for the day. You think it's day. It's hard to tell. Still, this underground circumstance is really messing with you guys.
Sam: Well, should we go plunder some mines and kill some goblins?
Laura: Let's do it.
Taliesin: Let's go plunder some mines.
Travis: So we head down to the mines.
Matt: All right.
Travis: To the hole.
Matt: All right.
Travis: ♫ Takin' it to the hole ♫
Matt: You make your way down to the bottom ring of Kraghammer. To the mines proper. The miners have gone back to work, and from what you can see, there's just an all around crazy business with people cleaning out, still trying to clean out the ichor that's on the ground left over from the battle you guys had the day before. You make your way to the front of the mines, and immediately three of the carvers that are standing at the front approach as you begin to walk, and then upon noticing you, kind of like, step back and put their weapons to the side.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Acknowledging the orders they received from Lord Greyspine.
Laura: Oh, Trinket's with us.
Matt: Trinket has come along with you.
Sam: Trinket the bear, Trinket the bear.
Laura: I just saw that, don't forget Trinket. I didn't forget Trinket.
Matt: I assume Trinket comes with you unless you say otherwise.
Matt: In general.
Travis: Are they especially bowing to Scanlan the snake slayer?
Matt: (laughs) No. (group laughs)
Travis: No love!
Matt: They're busy working.
Matt: And fair play to the gnome, but they're dwarves.
Sam: Sure.
Orion: Yeah. They see that crap all the time.
Matt: You make your way into the mine proper. It goes back for a good 10 minutes of walking and of winding. You can see the actual track of the minetrack leading around. You come upon a couple of dwarves that look over their shoulders begrudgingly at you guys as you pass going, "Hey? Eh, shh," and go right back into mining whatever remains in the inside of this. It looks like this portion of the mine has been nearly picked clean. The dwarves that are in there are probably just wasting time to get their pay for the day. You go further back and eventually it opens up. I think I have the map available.
Liam: I've got it right here.
Sam: It's over there.
Matt: Cool.
Sam: Can you put it so that the people can see?
Laura: Oh, yeah.
Sam: Is that a thing?
Travis: They can't see that.
Matt: We can put it on there perhaps. For the most part I'll be describing it as you go, so it's not too important.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: Looks like Italy.
Matt: Yes.
Travis: It's a boot.
Marisha: It's the boot, yeah.
Matt: Following it, you get to a portion of the mine that is very busy. You can see, since this is probably one of the portions that wasn't collapsed in previous incursions buy whatever creatures these were, you get the feeling that this one has basically taken most of their workforce to try and find and carve a new vein. Or find a new path to pull things from. You get towards the portion where all these dwarves are working, and you notice that some of the doors have been shattered, knocked off the hinges. You imagine whatever creatures were barreling through before, this is probably where they came through.
Laura: All right.
Taliesin: That's where we're going.
Travis: Make an arcane check. Somebody with arcane.
Laura: Oh yeah, can I look around? Perception.
Matt: You look around. What are you looking for?
Laura: I'm looking for, you know. (group laughs)
Travis: Be specific.
Taliesin: 15 arcana check.
Laura: Scratch marks for anything.
Marisha: I like the idea of magic perception.
Taliesin: I just wanna see if there's anything familiar about the markings, if I can identify any signs of something mystical that's come through here.
Travis: Like a portal or a prison or a--
Matt: That'd be more of an investigation roll.
Taliesin: Oh, well, alright.
Laura: I'm gonna look for tracks.
Matt: Okay. That'll be an investigation roll for you as well.
Marisha: I'm gonna assist her, look for animal tracks.
Laura: I'm scared, I don't know which one to roll. Both my die have been rolling so bad.
Orion: I want to detect magic for a while.
Matt: All right. (loud thud)
Matt: Aid roll, Keyleth?
Laura: This one is no longer in service.
Taliesin: Oh, wow!
Marisha: Five.
Travis: Well hers is a lot better.
Marisha: Good.
Liam: Sorry, I've got the map, so I'm looking at the mine. Are we still in the dwarven carved out, sort of structure portion of the mine.
Matt: You are. You have just essentially started on that map.
Sam: So let's go down.
Liam: Guys, I'm holding a map. I see one room that they've scrawled "Supply" on, so it should be the next right up ahead. I'd like to just take a peek in there and see what we can see before we head deeper in.
Matt: All right, you are--?
Laura: I rolled a one again.
Matt: A natural one.
Laura: A natural one. Vax and I get dressed up in Sherlock Holmes cosplay, and we say, "Golly gee, I think I see some animal tracks over here."
Taliesin: They are staring at their own footprints on the ground.
Marisha: "The trail's going cold!"
Taliesin: Following around in a circle.
Matt: Oh man, this has turned completely back from the first game. You guys are failing consistently.
Laura: Everything.
Matt: Let's turn this around, let's turn this around.
Liam: Anyhow, I've got a map, so let's use this. Stay on point here.
Matt: You make your way towards the supply room as you head to where it was. One of the dwarves is guarding it. Not a carver, just one of the miners that was hired for this purpose is standing there. Leads you into the door, kind of opening it for you, awkwardly going, "All right, whatever you're looking for, fine. Go inside." Looking inside, there are just racks and racks and racks of pickaxes, shovels, utensils for the purpose of mining and constructing. There are wooden boards lying down. There are just giant barrels of nails and clipping utensils, and things that are used in the continuous expansion of a mine.
Liam: I've seen enough. We should keep going. (group laughs) This map says that there's an elevator a short ways up.
Laura: That goes down.
Liam: That goes down. But then there's a railway that goes further in into the caves, so I'm not sure.
Laura: We should probably go down.
Marisha: Yeah, I feel like going down.
Liam: Elevator straight down?
Marisha: Let's go further, all the way down.
Sam: How many of us can the elevator hold?
Matt: Elevator can pretty much hold all of you guys.
Sam: Okay, let's go.
Liam: It's a safe assumption that Lady Kima did not just walk to the back of the upper floors, she probably went down.
Sam: Yeah, let's go down, come on!
Liam: Get shit done, let's go.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Let's do it.
Marisha: Get low.
Travis: Air high five.
Liam: We have a map to the elevator.
Travis: Make 10.
Matt: As you guys are walking over to where the elevator is, you do notice there are two places in the mines where there is just large piles of rubble. And part of the ceiling has collapsed. You can see that there were portions where the mine expanded much deeper into the mountain that were detonated or collapsed in the idea of preventing any further incursion by whatever these creatures are pouring through. You also can see that there are some dwarven corpses being loaded out from the mine below, as well as goblin corpses, individuals that were caught in the attack that happened yesterday before it managed to emerge from the mine.
Liam: Scanlan, are you all right around these goblin corpses?
Laura: We should follow those.
Sam: Any goblin corpse is a good goblin, I say. I'm fine with it. I'll just quickly spit on their bodies as they go by.
Matt: And you do so quite quickly (spits). It's rapid, it's amazing.
Laura: So we follow the corpses and see where they're coming from.
Matt: All right. So that heads away from the elevator.
Sam: No no no, no no no. That's being taken to be buried, let's just keep--
Laura: No no no, where they're coming from.
Sam: Oh.
Liam: So we could either go to the rear of the mine on this level and see where they're coming from.
Laura: I thought we already went downstairs?
Liam: No, not yet.
Matt: There's a spiral staircase on the map. On the lower right hand side.
Liam: Yes, I see it.
Matt: That's where they're coming from.
Laura: Does that lead down probably?
Matt: It seems to.
Laura: Well then let's take the elevator, whatever. Let's go down.
Matt: All right.
Travis: You should put it under the thing.
Taliesin: We're good with down.
Matt: You guys go ahead and approach the elevator. It's a large wooden platform with a series of chains. My terrible, hastily drawn map there for you.
Travis: It's kinda crap, but it's kinda great.
Matt: Yeah, I know. It was actually more designed as a DM utensil, but you guys needed a map--
Travis: I love it.
Matt: --so I gave you my map.
Travis: There you go.
Laura: Take it back.
Matt: So I'm taking it back. (group laughs)
Orion: Give it to me.
Matt: It's-a mine. No, I'm keeping it. It's all right. So you get back to the elevator. There's a large 15 by 20 platform with a series of chains and there are two dwarves in the back that run a giant iron wheel. As you approach, they kind of give you a look, like, "Well, are you serious about going down?" [Travis, Laura, and Marisha] Yeah.
Matt: "Okay, step on the platform."
Laura: Let's do it. The two dwarves grab and begin to rotate the giant wheel, as it does you here the winch and the chain begin to tighten as it does. The platform shudders for a second, begins to lower. As it begins to lower, you can feel the actual platform shake a little bit as the whole weight is placed on the chains.
Taliesin: Guys. We're on an elevator.
Marisha: This is scary.
Orion: I love elevators.
Matt: As the winch begins to release, it--
Laura: I pet Trinket, calm him down.
Marisha: I've never been on one of these before.
Matt: Trinket is a little nervous.
Marisha: It's really tight.
Taliesin: I'm on an elevator with a bear.
Marisha: It's really dark, tight.
Orion: Oh, light! (snaps)
Taliesin: Thank you.
Laura: Are we down yet?
Marisha: Keyleth's getting a little claustrophobic. She's never been in this tight of a space.
Travis: Are you claustrophobic?
Matt: As the light spell bursts out from his staff. You all kind of have to cover your eyes for a second. But the lower area is opened up.
Liam: Word of warning, Tiberius.
Laura: Can we see out?
Orion: She said it was dark, and then I cast my spell.
Travis: Yeah, it's what you do.
Matt: (imitates loud thudding) You guys hit the bottom floor. You step off the platform, and you can see there is a secondary minecart that leads from this elevator that curves to the left and leads deeper into the mine proper. To the right of you is the spiral staircase. And you can see now two of the other miner dwarves are dragging a dead body across.
Laura: Can I look for goblin tracks down here and follow those?
Matt: (laughs) You can attempt another investigation check.
Sam: Why don't we just ask the dwarves where they were getting the bodies?
Travis: You're gonna roll crap. You're gonna roll crap.
Laura: Don't curse me.
Marisha: Please don't do that.
Laura: What am I, what is it? That I add it to?
Matt: Investigate.
Laura: Perception?
Matt: Investigate. But you advantage on the roll, because you're a ranger, tracking.
Laura: Oh sweet. Okay.
Sam: Why don't we just ask?
Laura: Well that's good, okay. Let's go with a 17.
Matt: 17, alright. So as you guys are going to ask somebody about this, your ranger gets down and begins inspecting the floor.
Laura: Yeah, I see things!
Matt: Where you can see there were struggles that apparently occurred. You can see slash marks on the ground. You can see bodies, or the impacts of bodies where some of these dwarves have been pulled away. A few minutes later, you can see tracks, dwarven tracks, of bodies being pulled and dragged, not in the direction they're going, but further down the tunnel.
Travis: Yeah, let's go there.
Laura: Oh, no.
Matt: As you look and follow that track, you notice that maybe a good 200 feet to the left of the cavern, there is a new tunnel breach that is currently open. About a 20 by 15 size tunnel that is fresh and blasted out from the other side. You can see rubble and rocks strewn across the floor.
Laura: I hear, I hear birds coming from the--
Travis: It's a fucking trip, right?
Laura: I know.
Sam: Let's go down there. Let's go down where it's dangerous.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Can we see?
Travis: Can we ask one of the guards?
Taliesin: It's a mine canary.
Liam: Is it black or is it dim?
Matt: With his light spell, it's fairly bright.
Travis: Nice!
Matt: Otherwise, it's fairly dim.
Travis: I cup my hands over my face and go, Grog, Grog, Grog. (laughs)
Matt: And it does echo. Grog, Grog, Grog, Grog.
Laura: Why would you do that?
Travis: Why not?
Matt: (faintly) Grog-Grog. Grog. Following the tracks, you can see the dragging of the bodies does indeed go in the direction, and into the newly carved tunnel. In this mine network.
Laura: All right.
Matt: What you do notice is the dwarves' bodies that are being dragged away: you can see footprints of those that are also pulling them aside. You kind of figure out the idea of the pattern of the footsteps that are leading in that direction.
Laura: Big, small?
Matt: Most of them are also dwarven in shape.
Laura: Oh, okay.
Marisha: Most of them.
Matt: So, there are, you can gather, dwarven feet dragging dwarven bodies deeper inside.
Liam: Duergar.
Laura: Dwarven centipede.
Liam: It's the duergar.
Matt: However, there are two bodies that are being dragged with no footprints whatsoever.
Travis: What?
Laura: Wings.
Sam: They're being used like skateboards. (group laughs)
Marisha: Legolas style.
Orion: Who and what are those?
Liam: This is 2015.
Travis: Is there any residue?
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: Wow, if only we had asked some dwarves what's been going on down here.
Laura: Is there any residue, blood?
Orion: We already know.
Laura: Green, red, black.
Matt: From the dragging marks, there is no blood. There's no signs of them dragging dead bodies off, at least.
Laura: Does it look like they struggled?
Matt: No, there's no struggle either.
Travis: Oh crap, fire.
Marisha: What about the walls? How close are the walls?
Matt: The walls here for this tunnel are about 15, 20 feet in width. And about 10, 15 feet high.
Marisha: Are there any scratch marks or anything like that on the walls?
Matt: No.
Liam: Let's stop dicking around and go into that mine.
Travis: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Laura: Might as well.
Matt: All right.
Travis: We go further.
Matt: You push further in. (Liam imitates sword being drawn)
Matt: So, this tunnel, pitch black. There's no light source aside from the one that you're creating. You guys push forward. And push forward, following the tracks. And push forward. And the the tunnel winds and winds and descends. And winds and descends. About two hours-- [Laura, Marisha, Travis, and Sam] What?!
Matt: --of following this tunnel with little variation.
Laura: Should've grabbed some dried fruit.
Travis: We got a ton.
Matt: Steadily declining and winding as it progresses. Three hours go by. This tunnel goes extremely deep. Whatever managed to dig its way up here came from pretty far under this mine.
Laura: At no point does it look like the bodies ever moved?
Matt: Nope, no change in physicality. No sign of struggle.
Marisha: But there are the drag marks all the way?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: And two hours ago, I started stealthing and taking the lead. When we're in the dark.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll a stealth check.
Laura: I thought I was tracking.
Liam: Uh, 29.
Laura: Whoo, that's a good roll. Yay, first good roll of the night.
Matt: All right, there we go. Your luck is changing now.
Laura: Changing it around.
Travis: Let me touch you.
Matt: You feel pretty stealthy. You guys look like, wait, where the hell did Vax go?
Marisha: Oh shit, I hope he didn't hear me just say that about him. Dammit.
Laura: Oh thank you, brother.
Taliesin: I'm having a serious Tom Sawyer island vibe.
Laura: I found him.
Liam: Looks fine.
Matt: About four hours--
Marisha: Are there any drafts? Do I feel any wind flows or anything like that?
Matt: No. It is still. It is stagnant air. (Laura coughs) Even more stagnant now. Four hours of traveling deeper into this tunnel's path until--
Laura: Anybody else have to go to the bathroom?
Travis: He rolled, he rolled something.
Laura: Oh no, he rolled.
Marisha: And so, that is how I spent my 12th birthday.
Sam: Great story, Keyleth. And, yeah.
Marisha: Let's see, what else.
Travis: Hey Scanlan, you kill me, I kill you.
Liam: There a great little cave alcove here, perfect for peeing in.
Laura: Oh brother, good to see you.
Liam: For everyone to pee.
Laura: Am I over here, or am I over here? Perhaps we could take a pee break here and proceed further into the mines.
Marisha: I agree with that.
Laura: That's a good idea.
Liam: Do you catch my drift?
Matt: As the four hour mark of travel into this tunnel presents itself, the tunnel finally widens and opens. As the sound of distant water rushing reaches your ears.
Laura: Oh no, I have to go to the bathroom.
Matt: As Tiberius steps into this opening, the light cascades into this new cavern. A large, beautiful open space presents itself, a good 100-foot-up ceiling. From what you can see, a roaring river is now pouring out of the nearby rock, cascading over a cliffside into a waterfall down into this deeper, giant cavernous space.
Laura: What about the tracks?
Matt: The tracks continue in the direction of that river.
Marisha: Into the river? Like it goes into the water?
Laura: Do we want to step into the room fully?
Marisha: Why don't we send--
Laura: I'm gonna stealth. I'm gonna stealth, too.
Marisha: Stealth twins.
Orion: Do I detect any magic? Stealth twins, 2015.
Matt: You detect no magic. You roll stealth.
Laura: 17.
Matt: Let's go ahead and take a bio break--
Laura: Okay.
Matt: --as the mystery begins to unveil. (group laughs)
Orion: I love a mystery.
Matt: Be back here in about five, ten minutes, folks. So keep an ear out.
Travis: Quick, quick break.
Orion: I'm gonna pee my face off. (Liam imitates rushing water)
Matt: We'll be right back.
Orion: Enjoy our butt shots, everybody.
Matt: And everyone runs off to take care of their business.
Travis: Right, listen up. If you have ale, then you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw. A goliath of towering height and size, this barbarian has an appetite for the two-- [audio resets]
Travis: Right, listen up. If you have ale, then you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw. A goliath of towering height and size, this barbarian has an appetite for the two great loves in his life: combat, women, and ale. (record scratches) Wait. Easily the brains of the group, Grog is often consulted for his vast knowledge of shapes, colors, and shiny things. Also ale. In his early years, armed with his two-handed great axe, Grog often enjoyed proving his might amongst the ranks of his family's wandering herd. But after coming upon an unsuspecting, elderly gnome in the woods, he objected to the killing of such an innocent life. A creature of impulse, Grog felt only pity for this, this terrified little thing. [no audio]
Travis: Right, listen up. If you have ale, then you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw. A goliath of towering height and size, this barbarian has an appetite for the two great loves in his life: combat, women, and ale. (record scratching) Wait. Easily the brains of the group, Grog is often consulted for his vast knowledge of shapes, colors, and shiny things. Also ale. In his early years, armed with his two-handed great axe, Grog often enjoyed proving his might amongst the ranks of his family's wandering herd. But after coming upon an unsuspecting elderly gnome in the woods, he objected to the killing of such an innocent life. A creature of impulse, Grog felt only pity for this, this terrified little thing. His disobedience cost him dearly. Beaten bloody and banished by the herd leader, his uncle Kevdak, Grog was abandoned and left to die. Exiled from his herd, it was then that the relative of the very gnome he fought to save, saved him. It was the kindness of a gnome cleric named Pike that healed Grog, bringing him back from death's edge. And they have remained close friends ever since. Most nights, Grog can be found challenging entire taverns to wrestling matches. Or accompanying Scanlan to the nearest house where you pay for lady favors. Also ale.
Marisha: A first impression of Keyleth would leave you with little information on the half-elven druid. You might even think that her social awkwardness due to her sheltered upbringing is kind of sweet. Of course, it would be unwise to underestimate her based on first impressions. (lightning roars) Under that unintimidating petite frame is a vicious beast waiting to be unleashed, whose natural powers have made even the fiercest of champions pee their pants. Literally. Born to the air tribe of the Ashari people, Keyleth was raised with a deep love of nature and the elemental magics. It is her people's inherent duty to protect the delicate areas in Tal'Dorei, where the four elemental planes begin to bleed with this realm. Since she was a little girl, she had quite a knack for air manipulation and beast shaping abilities. Well, if you consider kittens and flying squirrels to be little beasts, which I do. Anyways, it wasn't long before the headmaster of the tribe, her father, Kohren, realized her true prodigious abilities and she was inveterated to succeed him as the next headmaster. Just like that, her jovial childhood was stripped and replaced with endless spell memorization, teachings from ancient traditions, and exceedingly high expectations. Every druid leader-to-be must embark on a journey to seek out the sister tribes in order to introduce and establish respect amongst the fellow headmasters. They call this the Aramente, or Noble Odyssey. When her father felt she was ready, he set her on the path to truly discovering herself. Not knowing when, or if, she will ever return. As she hikes down the mountain towards Stillben, she meditated on the task ahead. Part of the Aramente is proving yourself a strong warrior, a valiant protector, and a wise and compassionate leader. With this knowledge, one thought plays in repeat in her mind: Is she even worthy?
Taliesin: Percy was the third child of seven children, born to a noble family who lived far to the north in the ancient castle of Whitestone. With so many siblings to share the burdens of lordship, Percy turned his attention to the sciences, engineering, and naturalism. One day, a mysterious couple named Lord and Lady Briarwood came to court. During a feast held in their honor, the Briarwoods violently took control of the castle, killing or imprisoning everyone who would stand in their way. Percy awoke chained in the dungeon, only to be freed by his younger sister. Together they fled, chased by the Briarwoods' men. As they ran, Percy's sister took several arrows to the chest and fell. Percy kept running, eventually jumping into a freezing river and floating unconscious to freedom. He did not remember waking up on a fishing boat. He barely remembered the next two years, as he slowly made his way as far south as possible. Then one night, Percy had a dream. A roaring cloud of smoke offered him vengeance against those who destroyed his family. When he awoke, Percy began to design his first gun. (gun cocking) (gun firing)
Sam: Oh, you haven't heard of Scanlan Shorthalt? Well, gird your loins, ladies, because he has his eye on you. A talented musician, master of disguise, and dashingly handsome in his own mind, Scanlan sings songs almost as much as he sings his own praises. Born a poor gnome, Scanlan used his endless charm and soaring tenor voice to croon for coin and support his single mother. One day he was discovered by a half-orc promoter and joined Dr. Dranzel's Spectacular Traveling Troupe, where he learned the ways of the world and honed his skills as a bard extraordinaire. A loner much of his life, Scanlan has never quite come to terms with the violent death of his mother at the hands of a goblin invasion. While his years on the road provided many, shall we say, educational experiences with the opposite sex, deep down Scanlan yearns for the one thing he's never known: the true love of a fellow gnome. Still, Scanlan considers himself a lover first, performer second, and fighter distant third. On the battlefield, he'll support his allies but rarely draws blood unless it's to protect fellow gnome Pike. Count on Scanlan for a hearty laugh, a rollicking song, and a twinkle in his eye that melts hearts and makes the females swoon.
Orion: (clears throat) Greetings and salutations. I am Tiberius Stormwind. I hail from a town called Ty'rex, located in the heart of Draconia, from a politically respected family. At the age of 15, I succeeded in passing the Sorcerer's Rite, showing prodigy-like control of my magic. The judges and the Draconian high council were amazed at how powerful my spells were for how long I had been training. At 20 years old, I was the youngest appointed member of the magic guild in Draconian history. For the next few years, I almost went mad from the malaise of being a guild member, as it's rather boring. However, one day I happened upon a chamber, unused for quite some time. In the room were stacks of books and maps of the surrounding cities and areas around the known world. For months I would frequent the chamber and learned of artifacts from legend. After a long period of research, I made a list of artifacts that caught my eye. I brought these findings to the high council and was told that all of the information in the chamber I stumbled upon was either believed to be fiction or unsolvable mysteries and hence were lost forever. I found those answers to be unacceptable. A year later I devised a ruse and managed to convince the city council to lend support in me leaving Draconia on a mission of peace and diplomacy for the surrounding kingdoms. Going from town to town and making friends and allies, in and for the name of Draconia. Being a red dragonborn, I had quite the task on my hands in that respect, but it was exactly what I needed, so I could explore the world and find these artifacts, as I felt the truth was out there. Some may describe me as buffoonish, but I say poppycock to all that. (stammers) I am much sharper than most give me credit for. I just don't pay attention to things sometimes. I've also been known to be rather cunning, loyal, happy-go-lucky, and well, dangerous. I can't help but show my true scales every now and then. But overall, I think I'm quite friendly for a dragonborn.
Liam: Never entirely welcome in the company of elves or men, Vax'ildan learned at a young age to skip past formality, preferring instead to invite himself in your door. Along with twin sister Vex'ahlia, Vax was born by a chance encounter between elven royalty and human peasantry. Raised by their mother in their early years, the twins were eventually sent off to their father in the elven capital of Syngorn. But their cool reception among the elves there never warmed, and their time in the capital didn't last. The siblings stole away one autumn night and set out on the open road. After a few years of wandering, they eventually decided to return to their mother and journeyed back to the lands of their youth. But instead of finding their childhood home, they returned to a pile of rubble. Their mother was gone, their home burned to ash. Pressing the townspeople for answers, they learned of the day the dragon came. With their ties all severed, Vax'ildan and his sister set out to find their fortune together in Tal'Dorei. An outsider since birth, Vax quickly learned to solve life's challenges in his own particular way, often by sidestepping them entirely. And when his knack for circumventing adversity isn't enough-- (sword slicing) --the way of blades the elves schooled him in more than makes up the difference.
Laura: Like so many half-elves, Vex'ahlia has spent most of her life suffering the cool reception of a people who don't fully accept her. Born of a human mother and an elven father, who only later in life took an interest in their existence, Vex'ahlia and her twin brother Vax'ildan quickly realized the only people they could truly rely on in this world were each other. It was at the age of ten when the two were taken from their mother and brought to live in Syngorn, the isolated elven city for which their father was an ambassador. He quietly took them in but always kept an icy distance, and after too many years of disdainful looks, the pair decided to leave his indifference behind and set out on their own. Vax took to the cities, stealing small trinkets and learning the ways of the thief, while Vex kept to the woods. She preferred the isolation. Always the keen observer, she learned to hunt and to track, to spy and to shoot. And through a series of fateful events, earned herself a companion in the form of a bear, her own stolen Trinket, to fight alongside her and protect her fiercely. Also, he is adorable and gives expert massages.
Producer: And back to you. Welcome back. Thank you for waiting. We've all had our fill of snacks, drinks, and relieving ourselves of the ones we had earlier. So, before we return, we actually want to thank you guys for having all the subscriptions you have. Since we started playing, we hit a thousand very quickly. You guys are awesome.
Travis: Yeah! So thank you for that. Big round of applause.
Travis: Round of applause. Subscriptions have been awesome. And as such, we have a winner for these evening's event. Hi, Tiberius.
Orion: Sorry everyone. Tiberius has returned. So, in character as always. So, the winner of the evening is going to win both a signed photo of the cast of Critical Role as well as a signed Player's Handbook of D&D's 5th Edition is: (clears throat)
Sam: Visitor. (group laughs) No, on the backside. The winner is Yareth. Congratulations. Thank you for subscribing and paying attention and being in the chatroom and being awesome. We're gonna go ahead and get your information, and we're gonna make sure that you get our awesome first Critical Role giveaway. (group cheers and claps) Well done, Yareth. Thank you for coming.
Marisha: Yareth. (group repeats Yalreth in funny voices)
Matt: All right. (Marisha speaks gibberish)
Liam: Enjoy your Player's Handbook 5E.
Matt: (laughs) Hopefully more to come down the road. We'll have more fun things for you guys. So, anyway. So, bringing it back to the game at hand. As you've stepped into this large, cavernous space, you can hear the rush of water as the underground river begins to turn into a waterfall and drifts into a smaller body of water. It's just out of sight beyond this cliff face. Into this open, cavernous area.
Laura: Oh, we just stealthed.
Matt: You guys also stealthed, and what did you roll for stealth?
Laura: I rolled 17.
Matt: 17, got it. All right.
Liam: Oh, less than that.
Laura: You didn't.
Liam: Oh, no I didn't, 18.
Matt: All right.
Laura: You were already stealthed, though.
Liam: That's true.
Matt: As you guys step into this space, there are sections of large rock, portions of stone that just jut out and block off portions from your view of this area. Giant stalagmites and stalactites that just permeate the entirety of this cavern, which has been long, just building and building with elements drawn from the ceiling, from the waters that flow through. You also faintly see a light source--
Laura: (whispers) Oh no.
Matt: --behind one of those rock pillars in the distance.
Laura: (whispers) Should we go check it out?
Liam: Do we perceive anything in here with us before going that far in, yes?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: 18.
Matt: 18?
Liam: Yes.
Matt: You hear a very, very faint sound in the distance. (sharp noise)
Sam: Jesus. (laughing)
Orion: Did you hear that?
Matt: That's not the sound. Tiberius.
Orion: I'm sorry.
Laura: I have a passive perception of 21.
Matt: Yes you do. You hear a: (clicks tongue quickly)
Laura: Oh, no.
Sam: A skittering.
Matt: (continues clicking)
Liam: I might hear spiders.
Marisha: Oh.
Laura: Ugh.
Travis: Or crab.
Liam: Or something.
Marisha: Making it old school.
Sam: Maybe it's a very faint maraca dance of some sort.
Laura: What direction is it coming from?
Travis: That would be better.
Matt: It's hard to tell at this point, it seems to be just kind of loosely atmospheric.
Travis: Is the light coming from over the water?
Matt: The very, very faint light you see, no. It's adjacent to the water to the right of you.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: I think we're dealing with spiders.
Matt: (continues clicking)
Laura: I think you guys should hang back, and we should stealth over and see how many it looks like we're dealing with.
Liam: The twins will creep forward.
Matt: Okay. You both creep forward.
Laura: Trinket stays with the group. Trinket, stay with Grog.
Orion: I'm gonna dispel my light spell.
Matt: Pitch darkness falls upon all of you.
Travis: What did you do that for?
Sam: Because now they don't know where we are.
Laura: But we can't see anything.
Travis: They're spiders.
Marisha: While he does that, I'm gonna go ahead and turn into a cave bear.
Orion: Can you not see now?
Laura: We can see in dim light.
Marisha: Cave bears have darkvision.
Marisha: I'm pretty sure.
Liam: No, dim light only.
Matt: Do they?
Laura: What'd you turn into?
Orion: It doesn't matter, do you want me to turn it back on?
Taliesin: A cave bear.
Marisha: Yeah, subterranean bears, they have darkvision.
Matt: All right. So.
Sam: He can just make light again.
Matt: Go ahead and roll a perception check.
Liam: Turn it back on.
Marisha: No, leave it off!
Orion: I dispel it again, I'm sorry.
Marisha: Fuck! Fuck!
Matt: Light, light light, light light.
Taliesin: How did you do that?
Marisha: It's been a bad night.
Laura: Oh no.
Marisha: 12 total.
Liam: Clap on (claps), clap off. (claps)
Matt: As you glance about in cave bear form, you look up and all you can make out is shifting movement across the ceiling. (group groans at once)
Matt: But it's large. It's not a small creature. You glance off to your left and you look up and you see a second one.
Laura: Oh no.
Travis: Oh fuck.
Matt: And both dislodge.
Laura: Oh no!
Matt: All of you hear two loud, cacophonous, thunderous slam sounds-- (imitates loud thudding)
Laura: Definitely hit light now.
Matt: --on the ground next to you-- (screeching noise)
Liam: I quickly whisper to my sister, to the boundaries.
Marisha: And I just go  (roaring noise)
Orion: Light!
Matt: All right.
Liam: Vex and Vax dance backwards against the walls.
Matt: There is a surprise round.
Laura: Oh, no. (group groans)
Travis: Oh God.
Liam: But I heard them.
Marisha: I know. (roars)
Laura: Transform back.
Matt: All right. So you guys are stealthed off to the side there.
Liam: That's beautiful.
Laura: I'm on the other side.
Liam: Look at that fun map.
Matt: There's Trinket.
Liam: Thank you, Matt, for doing all the work on these maps and shit.
Matt: That's what I do. So there's the water there, rushing off into the waterfall that goes further down.
Laura: Can I stealth against the other wall?
Travis: Waterfall is where on that map?
Matt: The waterfall is right here.
Travis: Got it.
Matt: So the river kind of pours over, falls into the water below. There are some of these large rock elements here.
Sam: What are they?
Matt: You cannot tell what's beyond this area, which is where the light source is coming from. (imitates thudding)
Laura: Oh no! (group groans) (imitates thudding)
Travis: Those look like umber hulks.
Matt: They are. (group screams) You've had one brief run-in with a single umber hulk in the past.
Laura: Now we have two. As two slam into the ground beside you, dropping from the ceiling portion.
Laura: Fudge!
Travis: I have their claws still.
Laura: Wait, do you guys remember-- (Matt growls and snarls)
Laura: Do they respond to vibration?
Orion: I cast stoneskin on myself immediately. You don't have that much time, unfortunately. Because they are upon you, it a surprise round.
Travis: Shit!
Laura: Do they respond to vibration? I forget.
Travis: They responded to something.
Matt: They respond to the something.
Laura: Can we remember with investigation or insight?
Liam: Limericks, limericks, they respond to limericks.
Matt: So this one shifts up over there, and this one moves up to there. Gleans past you, as it does not notice you.
Laura: Yeah, but it's still big.
Matt: This one comes towards you, Percy.
Taliesin: Damn it.
Matt: Attacking you with each of its claws and its mandibles. The first strike comes at you with a 13 to hit with its first claw. What's your AC?
Taliesin: Ah, 17.
Matt: You, woomf, just manage to dodge out of the way as these giant-bladed claws sweep next to your face. The second strike comes to you at a 21.
Travis: Oh shit. That hits.
Taliesin: That hits. I'm going to use a gunslinger's dodge.
Laura: Gunslinger's dodge.
Taliesin: Wait, let's see if I can do this. It's not enough, nevermind, so no. I just gotta take it.
Matt: All right, so the claw finds purchase across your torso. (imitates claw slicing) The armor catches most of it. However, the slash does leave an impact on you, as you can feel the taste of iron in the back of your throat. You suffer nine points of slashing damage.
Taliesin: Oh, okay.
Matt: And just as you pull back the mandibles, time to crunch down upon you. And that is going to be a 27 to hit.
Laura: Oh, no.
Travis: Do their eyes do something?
Matt: You take 14 points of slashing damage, as the mandibles slice down, clamping onto your shoulder. You manage to pull free, but in doing so, you wrench the pointed portions of the mandible across your shoulder, pulling open the flesh in this horrible jagged pattern.
Taliesin: Ow.
Matt: That brings us to the other one, who is attacking Grog.
Marisha: Grog! You're right there in front of it. The biggest and most viable visual it can find.
Sam: ♫ No motherfucker, miss ♫ I start singing using my Cutting Words reaction. To try to distract him.
Matt: All right, so go ahead and roll your d8 to reduce his attack roll.
Travis: (laughs) No motherfucker, miss.
Sam: d8?
Matt: d8.
Sam: Three.
Matt: All right. That would have been a 20 to hit. That brings it to a 17.
Travis: 18. (group cheers)
Sam: I saved your life!
Matt: So, as you begin singing out, as it pulls back with--
Sam: ♫ No motherfucker ♫
Matt: --its mandibles to strike at Grog, it (clicks) looks off to you for a second, goes back, at which point Grog has put his axe up to its face and is holding it at bay. As its mandibles are tied in with its blades, and the handle of the axe is trying to hold it back. It strikes at you with its two claws, Grog. That is going to be a 27.
Travis: That hits.
Matt: And a 14.
Travis: Misses.
Matt: Okay, then from the one claw that gets you, you take six points of slashing damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: All right everyone, roll initiative. (group groans)
Laura: I'm so scared to roll.
Marisha: I know, it's been so bad.
Sam: Best one of I've had.
Taliesin: Ah, not horrible.
Laura: Oh, good.
Travis: Ball sack.
Marisha: Uh, it's okay.
Matt: All right, so, 25 to 20?
Laura: 24.
Matt: 24.
Travis: There you go. A little redemption.
Laura: That's right.
Matt: Nice, we got some Vex up top. 20 to 15 anyone?
Taliesin: 17.
Marisha: 17 as well.
Sam: 19.
Travis: Ah, yeah.
Liam: 15, 15.
Matt: All right, got some Scanlan up there. 17, 17.
Laura: (whispers) They're both surrounding me even with my awesome things.
Matt: Percy, Keyleth.
Matt: So 15 to--
Liam: 15.
Matt: 15.
Orion: 13.
Travis: I'm 14. Tiberius and I are 13-14.
Laura: Ugh, come on Grog!
Matt: Wait, uh, 14?
Orion: 13.
Matt: 14. Grog and Tiberius.
Travis: It's the ghost pepper cookies.
Matt: All right, cool. Top of the round. Vex.
Laura: Hyah! I am going to shoot the one.
Matt: Before you do that--
Sam: Oh, shit!
Matt: As you're going to reach back, you look over into its strange, glistening, black, dead, insect-like eyes of the umber hulk, and you feel this strange wave of mental confusion hit your head. Go ahead and make a--
Travis: I knew it.
Matt: Go ahead and make a saving throw. This is going to be charisma saving throw.
Marisha: Is this what confused you and had you running out the door?
Travis: I fell out a fucking 120 foot hole.
Matt: So you roll d20, add your charisma saving throw at the top of your character.
Laura: Okay, so I gotta do my math. That's 11, but I get a plus two from my ring that I'm wearing for saving throws, so.
Matt: Okay, so it's 13.
Laura: 13.
Matt: All right. The wave of confusion takes hold over your brain. (group groans) We're gonna go ahead and find out what happens. (Laura groans)
Travis: Maybe he'll ask you to make some cookies.
Matt: All right--
Laura: You're gonna have me do nothing wrong?
Matt: You reach for it, and you space out for a second. Your hands fall to your side. And you stand there.
Travis: Aw, fuck.
Matt: Trinket is looking for some sort of cue from you of what to do.
Laura: Does he look confused too?
Matt: No, but Trinket's looking to you for some sort of direction and is getting none. This is a very clustered space, too. Can barely see you over this.
Matt: That brings us to Scanlan.
Laura: But I was stealthed, though.
Sam: Don't worry, I'll help you my dear.
Matt: I know. Doesn't matter if you're stealthed. He couldn't see you, but you could see him.
Sam: I'm gonna take a step back behind Trinket.
Matt: Okay. (Travis Laughs)
Laura: Good call.
Sam: Actually, wait. How far am I from my furthest--
Matt: Are you averting your gaze from the guys, or are you looking at 'em directly?
Sam: No, averting my gaze. But how far am I from my--
Laura: Nobody look at them.
Sam: --my furthest fellow? Oh, I'm 60 feet, okay. And I sing my counter-charm song. ♫ Magic magic, go away, come again another day ♫ So all of us have advantage on saving throws for the charming spells. If they are charming us. I don't know if they are.
Matt: This is confusion.
Sam: No, what?
Matt: I don't think--
Sam: Frightened or charmed, it's not the same thing?
Matt: Mm. This is technically a confusion effect. So yeah.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: Oh, wait. Oh, no.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: So as you finish your song, you're like--
Sam: It did not work.
Matt: Doesn't seem to be having an effect unfortunately.
Sam: Okay. And then as my bonus action, who got hit first? You did? I'll just throw a healing word to him.
Matt: Okay. Just go ahead and roll, feeling him. That's a d4 plus five. Yeah, you got it. Percy.
Taliesin: Mm.
Matt: You heal--
Sam: What is this?
Matt: It's a four.
Sam: Oh, that's a four. Okay.
Matt: So you heal nine hit points, and it's your turn. What do you got, Percy?
Taliesin: Up to 58, let me just fix that, there we go. Okay, where am I on the board?
Matt: You are right here in front--
Taliesin: Okay, so there's no getting away. I'm gonna-- I can basically without-- I remember I'm not supposed to look at these things. I know where this thing is. I can pull my gun and just take a shot, right?
Matt: So averting your gaze, you take a shot. You are at disadvantage on the attack roll.
Taliesin: How much?
Matt: Just disadvantage.
Taliesin: I'm just disadvantage?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Well okay, that's fine. I'm gonna spend a grit point for a deadshot, so I'm gonna get a plus one to hit.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Come on, Perce.
Taliesin: Aha! That will be a-- with the plus one, that's a 28, 29, 30 to hit.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Get after it, nasty!
Matt: Roll again, as you have disadvantage. Because you're not looking at it directly.
Laura: Ugh, please be good.
Taliesin: That's still 25 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: 26, actually.
Matt: Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: And then I get extra damage because I did deadshot. So that's plus one, so that will be a-- it's a 2d8 plus five plus ice, because I'm hitting with my ice shot. And that's seven, eight, nine, 10, 11, 12. 14 points of ice damage.
Matt: 14 points of ice damage. Nice.
Taliesin: And then I have a second shot and I'm just gonna take one more shot at him really quick.
Matt: Okay, also at disadvantage.
Taliesin: I fail. In fact, my gun jams. (group groans)
Matt: Okay. So as you go to fire, it's like you-- (imitates gun firing) fire the first shot averting the gaze.
Laura: We're all gonna die. You spin the barrel, go back to go ahead and fire again, as you do (imitates gun clicking) You pull the trigger for a second, and you feel a slight (imitates fizzled explosion) inside the barrel.
Travis: Damn it!
Marisha: Oh, no.
Matt: And you feel the actual metal get extremely cold, and you have you have to shake it out like, aw, damn it.
Taliesin: Since I can't move, I'm gonna-- my movement, my minor is gonna be just fixing my-- yeah, so.
Matt: Okay, so your action is just trying to fix the gun?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: All right. That brings us to--
Taliesin: Damn.
Matt: Keyleth.
Laura: Keyleth, don't look at them.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Just as a note, your inspiration dice that you give can be used on saving throws as well.
Sam: Okay. But I haven't given any.
Matt: No.
Marisha: Um, I'm a bear right now.
Matt: You are a bear, which I will, for the sake of this, give you the kitty.
Marisha: Bring out Minxie.
Travis: Minxie.
Matt: Minxie is the form, but you are a bear.
Marisha: Okay, first and foremost, I'm gonna go ahead-- and I don't know if this is gonna help. But I'm gonna throw up a fog cloud.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Maybe.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: No?
Matt: So fog cloud. The entire space, it's a 20 foot radius? I believe, if I recall from the one he did yesterday.
Marisha: But it screws our vision, though, doesn't it?
Laura: Well, yeah.
Matt: Everybody gets obscured vision.
Marisha: But I mean, we wouldn't be able to see them. Would it help with the confusion is what I'm hoping.
Laura: That could help, that could help.
Sam: Do your thing. Do what you do.
Marisha: Or would it be bad?
Laura: Try it. Do it, Keyleth, go with your instincts.
Taliesin: Don't think about what's the worst that could possibly happen.
Marisha: I'm bursting out a fog cloud, and then--
Matt: Well to cast, you have to get out of creature form, remember?
Marisha: Oh, that's right. I didn't throw a bow.
Matt: So you're a bear.
Marisha: I'm a bear. Nevermind, I'm just gonna do a full round of attacks.
Liam: It's go time, go time! (claps)
Marisha: That one right there.
Laura: Keep your eyes closed.
Matt: All right, so you move up to there. Go ahead and do your full round of attacks.
Matt: I am doing multi-attack.
Matt: Okay, are you averting your gaze or not?
Marisha: I'm a cave bear, I'm blind. I'm like a blind fish. I have darkvision and, like, cataracts.
Matt: Darkvision means you can see in the dark.
Matt: But it doesn't mean that you don't see. (Sam laughs)
Marisha: Well I'm a bear.
Matt: You are a bear. I'm eating at his leg. I'm not looking at his eyes. I'm not, like, waxing poetically at how sexy he is.
Matt: No.
Marisha: Not whispering sweet nothings in his ear.
Matt: I know.
Marisha: I'm gnawing at his leg.
Matt: That's true.
Liam: Go for the kill!
Matt: Make a charisma saving throw.
Marisha: Make a charisma saving throw?
Matt: Yes. (Travis laughs)
Laura: Next time just avert your gaze. [Taliesin And Marisha] Oh!
Marisha: That's good. 16.
Matt: 16? You can feel the oppression of the umber hulk's gaze, but you shrug it off, your bear mind not affected by the measly tricks and traits--
Marisha: Urgh, I'm a bear!
Matt: -of these strange underground entities.
Marisha: Okay. Now I'm attacking.
Matt: Roll for your four attacks.
Marisha: First one probably misses. With my claw, 14.
Matt: 14 misses. (group laughs)
Orion: She got a pizza.
Marisha: With the claw attacks, do I have two claw attacks, do I roll for both?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Okay, so the first one is 19,
Matt: Hits.
Marisha: Second one, second claw attack is 18.
Matt: Also hits.
Marisha: Okay. So I am doing 2d6 plus five twice. So six plus--
Taliesin: It's 11.
Marisha: Five, so 11.
Taliesin: Ooh.
Marisha: Plus 17-- 20 damage.
Matt: 20 damage. Nice.
Taliesin: 25.
Marisha: Oh, 25. Sorry, 25.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: 25 damage.
Matt: So, as you shake off the effect, you reach for it, lashing out, two large strikes. The second one gets a distinct carve into the back of the umber hulk's hide. You can see a portion of its chitinous back armor gets kind of pulled off in a chunk. And it (snarls), reels back from the impact and readies itself for a second round of attacks.
Marisha: Me and Trinket.
Matt: There you go.
Marisha: Going at this. (Matt laughs)
Marisha: Bear style.
Matt: They go. This one turns towards and moves this way to focus on the cave bear that just thrashed against its hide. While this one turns and moves in towards Grog. But now turns and sees the-- actually no. It stays there, fixed to Grog. So making its multi-strike against you, Keyleth. That is a 26 to hit.
Marisha: Hits.
Matt: That's mandibles. 17 to hit with its claw.
Marisha: Hits.
Matt: And 18 to hit with its claw.
Marisha: Hits.
Matt: All right, so you take six points of slashing damage from the first claw. Eight points of slashing damage from the second claw. And then the mandibles deal fifteen points of slashing damage, as the umber hulk just turns to you, and as a reaction to your assault--
Marisha: What was the last one?
Matt: The last one was 15. Just unleashes an array of strikes against you. (Matt growls)
Liam: Hit it in the face.
Matt: That brings us to the other one who's attacking you, Grog.
Marisha: Back at him, yeah.
Matt: That is a 12 to hit. Pretty sure misses.
Travis: Misses.
Matt: Another 12 to hit, 'cause it likes to roll fours, apparently.
Travis: Give me another four.
Matt: For the mandibles, it's a 20.
Travis: 20 hits.
Matt: You're taking damage, fool. That is 18 points of slashing damage against you.
Travis: I have a half damage to all bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage?
Matt: You haven't raged yet.
Travis: So I'm not raging?!
Matt: You haven't raged yet! It isn't your turn yet.
Travis: But I'm so angry.
Matt: I know. You're about to be so angry.
Travis: 18 points.
Matt: You're gonna be so angry. 18 points of slashing damage. The mandibles crush down on your body, and you can feel them pierce into your chest. Your exposed musculature is then torn in a jagged form as you feel the blood begin to pour down the front of your torso.
Travis: It's all right, it's okay.
Laura: That's brutal.
Travis: My turn's coming.
Matt: That ends their turn. Vax.
Liam: So I can see what's up. I saw what it did to my sister, so I'm gonna jump on its back. I'm gonna swivel my daggers around and just stab it in the face.
Laura: But keep your gaze averted.
Liam: Yeah, I'm seeing the back of his fucking spine or head. I'm gonna stab him in the face twice.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: Okay.
Liam: Nine-- 20.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: Okay. So then I'll do damage. The other one's an 18. I rolled in advance.
Laura: That counts, that counts!
Matt: That one, that's the one!
Liam: So, 10, plus sneak attack damage, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah, okay.
Matt: He doesn't know you were there, you were stealthed.
Liam: Okay. One. Four. Eight. Nine. 13, 26, 36 damage from the first dagger.
Marisha: Whoo!
Liam: Face, in his face, and the next was an 18.
Matt: Not in his face. Not in his face.
Liam: Not in his face?
Matt: It's back.
Liam: But I wanted I wanted to do this to his head. Okay, whatever works.
Travis: The reach around?
Orion: The old reach around stabbing.
Liam: The reach around, the reach around. That what I was going for. And then, where's my four, 1d4. One's a three, but no, just three.
Matt: Three, okay.
Liam: With my flametongue dagger which I don't know if he likes or dislikes, but that's what I've done.
Matt: Okay, so, as you leap on its back, grab purchase on one of its chitinous plates, bring your first dagger forward and jam it into the side of its head, as it pulls back, you hear a (snarling) as it reacts to the immediate pain and begins to reach one of its claws to try and knock you off. As you do, you put the blade back into your belt, grab with your other hand, pull your other dagger, and slam it into the other side of its head.
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: This time it shrugs you off, and you manage to just land on your feet barely, behind it, still faced away from you. That brings us to Grog. (Travis grunts) Rage.
Marisha: Rage!
Travis: Now I'm angry.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: I would like to rage, and not only rage, I would like to go into a frenzied rage.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: For three full attacks.
Matt: All right.
Travis: While I'm raging so hard, that I pop all the capillaries in my eyeballs, so I can't really see that well. And I just swing a lot.
Matt: All right, I'm gonna check one thing real fast.
Laura: Oh, no.
Travis: Oh, shit! Don't check, look, I'm rolling. (Marisha and Laura laugh) 30.
Liam: There once was a bard from Nantucket. (group laughs)
Liam: Who got his flute caught--
Travis: I gain one level of exhaustion with a rage hit.
Liam: --in a bucket.
Matt: I will say, situationally, because of the fact that your rage that you have advantage on the saving throw against the confusion effect. [Marisha and Laura] Oh. Your mind is so filled with aggression.
Travis: I got that big, like, nasty thing.
Matt: So make charisma saving throw.
Taliesin: Oh, what a good idea.
Travis: Is that a 20?
Matt: Yep.
Laura: Plus one.
Travis: 11.
Matt: Roll again, you have advantage.
Liam: Better, better, better, no.
Travis: Five.
Laura: Oh no!
Matt: Let's see what happens.
Laura: No!
Orion: Roll a two.
Matt: So-- (group groans)
Laura: Now he's raging, too.
Matt: --as you rage--
Marisha: No, dammit.
Matt: --you feel the influence of the umber hulk's gaze pierce your eyes and the fury fills you, and you reach out and slash with your axe. However, it does not reach for the umber hulk. Go ahead and roll an attack, Grog.
Laura: Oh no, who's he hitting?
Travis: A one! (group cheers)
Sam: Finally!
Marisha: Yes!
Matt: There's a loud clanging sound, as a giant, angry, swooping bladed greataxe misses Tiberius's head by inches.
Orion: Oh! Grog, what are you doing?
Matt: Before slamming into the stone right up against the side of the wall. You can just see now this kind of loose, crazed look in his eye. (growls maniacally)
Matt: Foam begins to gather at the side of his mouth.
Orion: Oh, now you're all screwed up.
Liam: We have a problem.
Laura: Yeah, this could be bad.
Liam: We have an angry Grog.
Matt: Tiberius, you're up.
Orion: Damn it, Grog.
Travis: It's my turn?
Matt: No, that's your turn.
Travis: Oh, that's my turn.
Marisha: Tiberius, help.
Laura: At least your rolled a one.
Travis: I did. I didn't hurt anybody yet.
Orion: I look at Grog, and I'm like, will you stop it! I cast Dispel Magic on him. (Travis snarls)
Matt: Cast Dispel Magic?
Orion: Yeah.
Laura: On Grog?
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I don't think it's magic.
Orion: Yeah, he's being controlled by it.
Travis: He can do whatever.
Liam: It's more natural, it's creature-based.
Travis: She's also being controlled.
Orion: I know, but you're a big, hulking, crazy mofo.
Matt: No, it is a magical force.
Orion: Yes, it is.
Matt: Forced to make a save.
Travis: Save me, save me.
Matt: Go head and make an arcana check. (Sam and Laura sing along with tense background music)
Orion: Uh, 17.
Matt: 17. The chaotic influence in your brain begins to dissipate, and the rage-filled gaze begins to fill your eyes once again, this time clarifying on the umber hulk in front of you.
Laura: Thanks a lot, Tiberius.
Sam: Thank god.
Orion: I'm not done yet. I slap him. Just get on this, will you? (Travis snarls)
Orion: I use two SP points to do quickening spell. I cast Grand Column under myself. (imitates rock moving) Fifteen feet up in the air.
Marisha: Nice. (Orion spits)
Matt: So, the stone beneath Tiberius's feet rises up, creating a column fifteen feet above the rest. He is now raised on a platform. I'll put him right there. Looking down upon the battlefield.
Orion: (clears throat) that is my turn.
Matt: All right, Vex, you're up.
Laura: Oh, do I have to cast a saving throw or am I fine?
Liam: Be a badass, be a badass.
Matt: Are you looking at it, or are you averting your gaze?
Laura: No, I'm averting my gaze even though I'm confused apparently.
Matt: Well, the confusion only lasts one turn.
Laura: Okay, good. I am not. What's that thingy behind me?
Marisha: Oh, we've got these.
Matt: This here?
Laura: No.
Matt: This here?
Laura: Yeah, what's that?
Matt: This is rock.
Laura: How high is it?
Matt: This is about 25, 30 feet up.
Travis: Use your laser pointer, dude.
Matt: And this is where the light source is coming from. You can't look over that way.
Laura: All, right cool. I avert my gaze but I listen very carefully to the sound of where it's coming from. (Taliesin whistles)
Laura: And I shoot in that direction.
Matt: Okay. (Taliesin and Marisha imitate birds)
Matt: So go ahead and make your attacks against this fellow.
Travis: That's some Hawkeye stuff.
Matt: You shooting this one?
Laura: Let's do the one that is surrounded so I get like, what, flanking bonus or something.
Matt: For ranged, you would not get a bonus for that unfortunately.
Laura: Lame. All right.
Matt: So are you shooting at the one behind you? This one?
Laura: Sure. Okay.
Laura: No, no, no, no, the other one.
Matt: Okay, all right. So, make your attacks with a disadvantage, as you're kind of keeping your eyes back and shooting in its general direction.
Marisha: Big money, no whammies.
Laura: 12, both of them were 12. But plus 11.
Matt: Plus, eleven? Hits.
Laura: Yes! Oh, and I get two attacks, right?
Matt: You do, yes.
Laura: Okay. Still disadvantage?
Matt: Yep.
Laura: 15 plus 11, hits.
Matt: That also hits, yeah. So both attacks hit.
Laura: Yes!
Matt: Did you want to use your bonus action for anything?
Laura: Oh yes, Hunter's Mark.
Matt: All right, so you throw Hunter's Mark on this umber hulk there.
Laura: Yes, I do.
Matt: But you're like, you're my quarry, ugh. Keeping your eyes back. You go ahead and pull your first and second arrow, (imitates bow firing arrows), letting them loose, kind of letting a little bit of faith take your arrows to the wind. Both finding purchase on your foe.
Laura: Can I use bloodseeking bow on that one?
Matt: You can, yes.
Laura: Sweet. All right, cool. So that's 15, no, 11. And then 15. (group laughs)
Laura: It was good so I kept it.
Travis: She dropped it, but it was a good roll.
Orion: Yeah, take the drop.
Laura: Plus bloodseeking, which is 10 damage, plus Hunter's Mark, which is a six, which is 3.
Matt: So total damage of...?
Laura: Oh, I have to add. (Matt laughs)
Laura: 15 plus 11 plus 3. 26, 29 damage.
Marisha: Woo!
Matt: Nice! (Liam imitates arrows firing)
Matt: So, as your arrows sink into him, one blasts into him. Fire cascades up the side, you can see the middle of its plates beginning to burn and torch the cinderous glow. It reels back, gets its claws ready, now fixated on you 'cause you just announced your presence to it.
Laura: I'm looking again, so.
Matt: All right. Anything you wanna do with...?
Laura: Trinket?
Matt: Trinket.
Laura: Oh, yeah. Can he run up and attack the other one? While keeping his eyes down?
Matt: He would have to use one of your attacks to do that.
Laura: Oh okay, well then he's just hanging out.
Matt: Trinket's just hanging out.
Laura: He's protecting Scanlan. (Matt imitates bear growling) Yeah, big old bear protecting your gnome.
Laura: Protect the gnome!
Liam: Gnome coverage. [Marisha And Taliesin] Gnome coverage.
Matt: No healer this week. What could possibly go wrong?
Marisha: Gnomewatch 2015.
Matt: Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Scanlan.
Liam: Ride the bear, Scanlan.
Sam: Ride the bear.
Travis: Oh my God.
Sam: I will just step forward a little, and I will cast polymorph on our big friend that we're surrounding. And I'll turn him into a snail.
Marisha: A snail? Aww!
Matt: All right.
Travis: Can you do that?!
Sam: Yes.
Matt: What's the DC, the difficulty class on your spells?
Sam: Through the horn of clarity or whatever. So it's 17.
Matt: 17, alright.
Sam: Or no, 19, sorry, 19.
Matt: 19.
Sam: It's plus two.
Matt: So, as the two umber hulks are there, the one that's in the center of the group, (snarls).
Laura: Oh, Tiberius.
Laura: Rears back, beginning to unleash its series of attacks, and then (sharp hiss), into this tiny--
Travis: What?!
Matt: --snail form on the ground.
Laura: Awesome!
Liam: Don't touch the snail until the--
Laura: Why?
Liam: 'Cause he'll poof out into the fucking big guy again.
Sam: Don't hurt the snail.
Liam: Leave it, leave it.
Sam: Don't pick up the snail. Just be nice to the snail.
Liam: Leave it alone. Hit the other one.
Orion: Don't do anything. I'll take care of the snail. (talking over each other)
Matt: There's a tiny, tiny little snail on the ground now that looks very confused.
Laura: That's confusing.
Matt: Very confused, which is ironic for an umber hulk, to feel confused.
Sam: As a bonus action, I give dice to-- who's coming up next? Who's coming up soon?
Matt: Next'll be Percy.
Sam: Percy, you get dice.
Taliesin: What dice do I get?
Matt: d8.
Sam: A d8 for inspiration.
Taliesin: A d8? All right. Excellent.
Matt: Percy, you're up. (Sam imitates flutes) Gotta do my app.
Matt: Do your app, fuck it up.
Orion: Do the app.
Sam: No, it's not ready. (group laughs)
Taliesin: I'm gonna take one of my two actions to clear my gun.
Travis: Yeah, the jam.
Taliesin: Clear the jam. And then set up for a fire shot. And I'm gonna take a fire shot. Am I at a disadvantage? (tinny electronic music)
Matt: You're inspired.
Sam: It's so weak, it's so weak.
Travis: You've gotta get it better.
Matt: So, who are you shooting?
Taliesin: I'm shooting our friend over there. I've just sort of turned, and I'm firing.
Taliesin: So am I at a disadvantage?
Matt: Averting your gaze?
Taliesin: I'm averting my gaze, but I know where it is.
Matt: Right. So go ahead and fire at disadvantage.
Sam: You got the dice, you got the dice.
Taliesin: Okay. 14 with the disadvantage.
Matt: 14 with the disadvantage will miss, unfortunately. (imitates gun firing) The fire shot arcs off into the distance--
Taliesin: Oh oh, actually--
Marisha: Oh yeah, inspiration.
Matt: Add the inspiration dice.
Taliesin: 17.
Matt: 17 will just barely hit. (group cheers)
Taliesin: Well done, well done, ha ha!
Orion: Good shot!
Liam: Good stunt work, Tiberius.
Taliesin: So, that's gonna do-- ba-bumpa-bum.
Orion: I have to wait to figure out when to open which one.
Taliesin: That's 17 fire damage, 17 fire damage.
Matt: 17 fire damage, nice. Okay, you hear the shot hit, and you hear a cracking sound as one of its plates actually freezes and shatters off of its body, exposing kind of a fleshy undercarriage.
Marisha: Nice. [Orion And Marisha] Undercarriage.
Matt: This umber hulk is starting to look a little rough. That brings us to the top of-- Do you want to move or stay where you are?
Taliesin: I'm going to step back to-- bring me back two to three steps, just like, back away.
Matt: Back here.
Taliesin: Yeah. Just like, here.
Laura: Avoid the snail.
Sam: Yeah, don't step on the snail.
Taliesin: I'm not stepping on the snail.
Taliesin: Yeah, that's good.
Matt: There? Okay, good. All right, that brings us to--
Laura: I'm using it!
Matt: Laser pointers, we have use. Keyleth, you're up. KEYLETH Okay, after seeing Grog get confused, I turn, and I go straight for his throat. And I'm trying to drag him into the creek.
Travis: Ooh.
Laura: Ooh.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I wanna take the umber hulk into the creek right behind me.
Matt: Okay, so go ahead and roll for a grapple.
Marisha: All right.
Travis: Come on, cave bear.
Marisha: How do I grapple as a bear?
Liam: Bear hug, man, bear hug.
Laura: Yeah, just take him.
Taliesin: How does one grapple as a bear? It is a strength check, I guess.
Matt: Does anyone else-- Can I have the book real fast? Just to be sure we know how we're doing this.
Taliesin: Have you noticed there's a rhinoceros in here?
Marisha: I can be a a rhinoceros.
Matt: It's a contest, yes.
Travis: Why have you not been a rhinoceros yet?
Marisha: It just hasn't been useful yet.
Sam: She usually picks a bird of some sort.
Marisha: I'm waiting for the right time.
Liam: She can only turn into things she's seen.
Sam: I'm a squirrel and a bird! You should be a rhinoceros.
Taliesin: We're just waiting for you to scream, "It's morphin time!" It's morphing time! Bear!
Marisha: Oh my god, can you make me smoke bombs that smoke, and I say, "It's morphin time"?
Matt: So you can make a grapple attempt in place of one of your attacks.
Marisha: Okay. That's what I want to do.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: So I just strength check then?
Matt: So it is an athletics check.
Marisha: Oh. I don't have stats, I'm a bear.
Matt: No, you use the bear's stats.
Marisha: But all I have are the basic six.
Matt: Right, what's the strength?
Marisha: Five.
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: So that's what I do.
Matt: Yeah, roll the dice, add plus five. (group cheers)
Orion: It's 20!
Matt: Natural 20. (clapping) You reach forward and latch onto it with your claws and your teeth, onto the umber hulk.
Marisha: Going for the throat.
Matt: Alright. So that's your first attack. You can go ahead while it's grappled and attack with the other strikes.
Marisha: I'm taking him underwater.
Matt: Okay. You pull.
Laura: Oh god, you're doing it, Keyleth.
Marisha: Pulling him underwater.
Liam: It's a waterfall, oh.
Matt: (imitates thudding) You both plunge underneath the water's surface. Take a big old breath right beforehand, and I'm going underwater.
Orion: Wait, can you let him go and let him drown?
Laura: Yeah, let him go, 'cause it's a waterfall.
Marisha: No, I'm holding on to him.
Laura: But Keyleth, there's a waterfall. It's fine.
Matt: It's now its turn. It's going to try and break your grapple.
Matt: Make an athletics check.
Marisha: Against his strength, I guess. Ah, 20.
Matt: 20, okay. You maintain your grip on the umber hulk. It's thrashing in the water trying to get its way to the surface. (snarls) Still slashing about. So it's gonna make its attacks against you.
Matt: That is a 14.
Marisha: Hits.
Matt: 14 hits you?
Marisha: I'm a bear, my armor class is 12 right now.
Matt: Well no, you keep your armor class.
Marisha: I keep my armor class?
Matt: I'm pretty sure.
Liam: Yes, the answer to that is yes.
Travis: Yeah, you do.
Liam: Definitely yes.
Matt: Nah, let's see real fast actually on this one.
Sam: Keep subscribing to Geek & Sundry everybody.
Matt: Exactly.
Sam: We're going for 1200 subscribers tonight, and if we reach that number... good for you. (group laughs)
Matt: Here we go.
Liam: Sam will write a ballad.
Sam: I will.
Matt: You gain the scores--
Sam: By the way, this music is just great.
Matt: It's 12 plus-- it's whatever the 12 is, plus your proficiency modifier, I think is what it is. For now, we'll say it hits. 'Cause I don't wanna hold this up.
Taliesin: There once was a player--
Sam: In Nantucket?
Laura: Don't.
Matt: No, you gain its armor class.
Marisha: I do gain its armor class.
Matt: Yeah, you do.
Marisha: So it hits.
Matt: Yeah, it hits you. All right. Second strike. That's also gonna hit you. All three hit you. You take six points of slashing damage. 11 points of slashing damage. And 6, 11, 17--
Marisha: It's okay guys.
Matt: Total of 26 points of slashing damage.
Marisha: I am no longer a bear.
Matt: So you lose your grip as your form reverts. You are now back to Keyleth's form in the water.
Sam: And you're in the water!
Marisha: Can I cast a concentration spell on myself?
Matt: No, because you used your actions to grapple it.
Marisha: And that's it.
Matt: So you're now just back in the Keyleth form, underwater. You catch your breath and realize you're now underwater in near darkness with an umber hulk right on you.
Marisha: Hey brah. Sup? Fancy meeting you here.
Matt: Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay, so first thing I do is lean down and pick up the snail off the ground and say, "Hey, um, go fuck yourself." And then I throw him into the waterfall.
Sam: Oh Jesus!
Matt: Over here?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and roll a ranged attack. So just roll, add dexterity.
Liam: Okay.
Laura: Oh gosh, okay okay.
Liam: Great great great. Dexterity you say? 18.
Matt: 18?
Laura: No, it's higher than that, yo!
Orion: No, it's fine if he drowns and dies.
Liam: Oh sorry, yeah, that's 21. 22, 22.
Matt: You throw, it arcs over. Lands in the water. (imitates water sucking) Goes under into the waterfall.
Liam: Toodle-oo shitface.
Sam: Hey wait, he (stutters) he swam away?
Matt: No, he threw the snail over the waterfall.
Sam: Hey! Bye-bye!
Liam: Now, that seems like a bonus action to me, right? (group laughs)
Matt: That's an attack.
Liam: So then that's an attack, okay.
Marisha: (laughs) That's an attack.
Matt: It's the world's easiest grapple throw.
Travis: You threw him forever.
Liam: Then I'm good.
Laura: That's it?
Liam: Well, that's my action, right?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: And I only have one.
Sam: You can move, you can move.
Liam: All right, so then, I'll hop through, through Percy and my sister. And run up behind the shithead who's fucking with Keyleth.
Matt: Make an acrobatics check, try to tumble through them.
Liam: Yeah, that's easy.
Orion: He's in the water, though.
Liam: 16 (mumbles) 29.
Matt: Yeah, you're fine, and where do you wanna go?
Liam: Right up behind shitface there. And do I have anything left? Or do I just get there and stop.
Matt: Well, it was the attack to throw it. You would have your second off-hand.
Liam: Second attack. Well let's stab him in the ass then, right.
Matt: Well, you have disadvantage 'cause it's currently in the water thrashing about, and it's hard to see. Well, that's not very good. 15.
Matt: 15 misses unfortunately. So as you slash down with your dagger into the water, it's just too hard to really make out what that form moving is.
Liam: I still feel pretty good about that round.
Travis: Yeah, it was pretty good.
Matt: Grog, you're up.
Travis: Am I? (grunts) With my frenzied rage renewed, I run towards the water, haunted by nightmares of Sebastian in the Little Mermaid, and I leap into the water and start slashing and slashing.
Matt: Go ahead and make your three attacks, Grog. (Liam sings opening notes to "Under the Sea")
Travis: ♫ Le poisson, le poisson, hee hee hee, fuck you bitch ♫ (Matt laughs)
Travis: 18 plus... that's 26.
Matt: 26 hits.
Travis: Okay, good. Second attack. 26.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: Okay. 25.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: Good.
Matt: Go ahead and roll damage, Grog. As you come charging forward, just (grunts), leaving bits of foam cascading off the side of your mouth. Your eyes just glazed over with white. You bring the axe down into the water, form towards where the splashing is. Keeping mindful that Keyleth might be in there somewhere. But you're very much see the larger form in the field, so.
Travis: It's all about sushi right?
Marisha: Oh, I'm fine.
Matt: Yeah, so damage on the first strike?
Travis: Eight, second one is 16.
Matt: Eight, 16, that's 24.
Travis: And 17, thirty. What's 24 plus 10?
Laura: 34.
Matt: 34.
Matt: Grog. 34 points of damage. As your axe comes down, slam once into the water. You see one of the claws start pulling itself up out of the surface. It's head's still under the water. You slam the axe down. You see the arm actually snaps and begins to drift down the river. As it looks up at you, its eyes open. Before the gaze can meet yours, the axe comes down and plunges itself directly into the forehead of the umber hulk with a shunk sound. As it does, its body goes limp and begins to float down the water. (group cheers and claps)
Laura: Well, that was easy.
Sam: Was it?
Laura: I walk up and try to help Keyleth out of the water.
Matt: Okay. You help Keyleth out of the water. At this point, the snail form, which doesn't have a whole lot of hit points, has taken enough damage to alleviate itself from the polymorph. As the spell fades, as the snail form is destroyed, the other umber hulk begins clawing its way up the side of the mountain, burrows through the actual stonework--
Laura: Ah, balls.
Matt: --(imitates explosion) and bursts out of the ground right behind you, Vax. (imitates explosion)
Liam: Oh, fuck a duck.
Travis: Come on, drop this thing.
Laura: This is why you shouldn't have thrown the snail.
Matt: But that's its turn.
Liam: I thought it would get washed all the way out. Down the toilet, all the way out.
Matt: All right, that brings us to the top of the round. Tiberius.
Marisha: It was at least badass.
Liam: Elegant.
Marisha: It was very elegant.
Taliesin: I'm sure it was a wonderful thought.
Orion: Firebolt.
Matt: Okay, roll for it. Roll for the attacks.
Liam: Just past it, please.
Matt: Yep, any directed spell like that you have to roll and add your spell range modifier.
Orion: Sweet, that does not hit.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Orion: Uh, 11.
Matt: Disadvantage, so. You rolled an 11 total?
Orion: 10.
Matt: Yeah, you miss. So, as you aim your firebolt (imitated fire shooting) You're just averting your gaze, and it jumps over and arcs through the rest of the carvern, lighting it as it goes like a flare.
Orion: Good cavern.
Matt: That leads to Scanlan.
Sam: Scanlan?
Matt: Actually no, Vex is up and then Scanlan, sorry.
Laura: Me?
Matt: You, you.
Liam: Kill it before it kills me. Okay.
Laura: I am gonna keep my gaze averted, but I just heard it, and I'm gonna--
Orion: That rhymed.
Laura: I'm gonna attack it. WIth some arrows.
Matt: Go for it. So two arrows, notched. (imitates arrows firing) Disadvantage on each attack.
Laura: Oh, okay.
Liam: Don't let it eat my head, please.
Laura: Yeah, it's the same. 18. No, lying. 20.
Matt: 20 hits. Go ahead and roll for the second attack.
Laura: 19.
Matt: Both hit.
Laura: Okay, good.
Matt: Go ahead and roll damage on each.
Laura: Is this the one that I Hunter's Marked? No, the other one Hunter's Marked.
Matt: The other one was, yeah.
Laura: Okay, that's fine. 10 plus 13 is 23.
Matt: But you could switch over your hunter's mark.
Laura: And I switched over my Hunter's Mark as my bonus action.
Matt: With your bonus action.
Laura: So I add the-- oh, one.
Matt: So a total of?
Laura: 24.
Matt: 24 points of damage. All right, got you. (imitates arrows flying) The arrows end up piercing part of the armor. Each sink in a good, solid six, seven inches or so. It angrily (wet snarling) at the impact, but it wasn't enough force to send it back at all. But it knows exactly where you are. That brings us to Scanlan.
Sam: Scanlan's gonna move right in front of where-- I believe that's Percy?
Liam: Save the day, Scanny.
Laura: Oh yeah, I should've ran Trinket up there.
Liam: Repeat, just like last week.
Sam: Toss another dice to Percy, he seems to need them.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Sam: And I'm gonna cast lightning bolt at the thing. Who's wet from being in the water, yes? So electricity is gonna be pretty bad on him.
Matt: All right. So, because you're kind of averting your gaze to look away--
Sam: Disadvantage.
Matt: No, because you don't roll to attack. But it gets advantage on its saving throw because of that aspect.
Matt: So, it rolled natural 20 for its saving, so it takes half damage. But go ahead and roll your 8d6, it's the lighting bolt.
Sam: 8d6.
Matt: Arcs out from your fingers. (imitates lightning)
Sam: 8d6, 8d6. 8d6?!
Taliesin: Yeah.
Sam: 8?!
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: Yes.
Sam: Shit! (group laughs) Uh, six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 11, 12. (group laughs) 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22 (mutters softly) 28!
Matt: 28, okay. 14 points of damage to the umber hulk as the bolt of lightning cascades through its body. It lights up for a second as you see the crawling fingers of electricity kind of shoot through its plates.
Sam: I like crawling fingers.
Matt: Indeed.
Orion: That was the name of the one girl, wasn't it?
Sam: Yes.
Marisha: Oh, I loved Crawline, she was so nice.
Matt: As the bolt grounds itself, the rest of the water on its form evaporates from the sheer force of the electricity. You see the umber hulk still standing. Angry, in pain, and standing, although it's still looking a little worse for wear. You don't wanna do that to an umber hulk. (group laughs)
Sam: You're right.
Matt: Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Taking my shot, I'm averting my eyes, so.
Sam: Use those dice, use those dice.
Marisha: Whoo!
Taliesin: 24 to hit.
Matt: That was the disadvantage?
Taliesin: At the disadvantage.
Matt: Awesome, that hits.
Taliesin: That's 1d8 plus five. That's, ugh, that's terrible. That's six points of damage. I'm taking my second shot.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Shoot it in the mouth. (clapping)
Marisha: Oh wait, but it's disadvantage.
Taliesin: I rolled twice. So I rolled a 19 and a 20, which means--
Marisha: Which are both your critical, right? Which are both my criticals. So a critical at a disadvantage.
Travis: Sick, nasty.
Taliesin: Just point, nyah, nyah!
Liam: Yes Percy. Critical on a disadvantage!
Matt: Well done.
Taliesin: So I'm also gonna spend my die.
Liam: Whatever your last name is again.
Sam: The die is for the attack.
Matt: It's for attacks, skills, and saving throws, not for damage.
Taliesin: That's, uh... five, six, seven, eight, that's 11 points of damage.
Travis: Finish him.
Matt: 11 points of damage from the first one.
Taliesin: 11 points of damage from the second one.
Marisha: But that one's critical. So it doubles, right?
Taliesin: It's just 1d8 becomes 2d8, right?
Matt: Correct, yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah that's-- yeah.
Matt: Okay, it's 11 points damage. Gotcha. So, as you rear back your shot (imitates gun firing) it resounds. It hits the plate, shatters it on the other side of its chest. You can now see this weird purplish goo beginning to spill from its wounds. You see it's holding itself up, and it's having a hard time keeping physical form there. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Oh. Um, cool. (Liam laughs)
Orion: Word.
Marisha: Word. I'm still a person. I'm gonna go ahead and also do a call lighting spell. Bam, call lightning right on its head. 'Cause he's wet.
Matt: Call lighting it is.
Matt: So, as you begin to complete your spell, you can see now the upper arch, the 100 foot archway, the ceiling of this area begins to fill with this strange cloudy, thunderous booms, as a raincloud is created and summoned across the rooftop. At which point, Keyleth frees her hand up and pulls down as a single bolt streaks through the air, slamming into the same lightning bolt wound that you left previously on it, where the edges of its armor are still glowing from the heat. Go ahead and roll damage.
Marisha: Got him right in the ass. It just gets straight damage?
Matt: Yeah, it gets a bonus on its saving throw, though. Or advantage. Which it makes.
Marisha: I get 3d10.
Matt: 3d10. All right, go for it.
Marisha: 6, 7--
Matt: It is no longer outdoors-only.
Matt: It gets a bonus for being outdoors.
Marisha: 11 damage.
Matt: 11 damage to the umber hulk. Which is halved. He made a saving throw, to a six.
Marisha: Saving throw, mm.
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Finish him. Cause you're having to avert your gaze. You're trying to work out this whole thing where you're all basically at a severe disadvantage fighting this thing, unless you want to be completely fucked over. All right.
Sam: Should have created sunglasses for him or something.
Travis: We have two of its eyes.
Matt: It's now its turn.
Laura: Ugh, it's still alive.
Matt: It turns and runs past, to the one who shot it with the angry lightning bolt. (Travis laughs)
Matt: The tiny gnome that now is a delicious morsel in the mandibles of an umber hulk. It comes running forward like a giant armored gorilla. (grunts)
Laura: Oh, no.
Matt: Reaching back with both of its claws, swiping at you Scanlan, that is a 23 to hit.
Sam: Oh, yeah.
Matt: 25 to hit.
Matt: Its mandibles are 24 to hit.
Sam: That hits three times.
Matt: Yep. You take 13--
Laura: Oh, no!
Liam: But you're so little.
Matt: 24.
Sam: Ooh!
Matt: 38 points of slashing damage. This is the sound I make. (high-pitched wail) (group laughs)
Matt: As it just strikes you, all of its form now, you're almost pinned to the ground, blood oozing from your face as gashes, slash wounds are across your entire body. It's looming over you, ready to try and finish you off next round.
Laura: Ugh!
Matt: That brings us to Vax.
Liam: Okay. So, he's now got his back turned to me. I'm just gonna stick both knives into his guts and say, "No one touches the gnome!"
Liam: Right in his guts, that's shit. So, fuck that. And this one is way better. So that's 27.
Matt: 27 hits definitely.
Liam: Okay, this is the flametongue.
Matt: It is considered flanking, because Scanlan is there. Oh yes.
Liam: Four plus two is six. (Sam sings along with dramatic music)
Liam: Two, three, fuck, four, fuck, seven, nine, 18, 24 damage. With the second knife, sneak attack into his ball sack.
Matt: How do you want to do this? (group yells triumphantly)
Liam: I stick it in the back of his his spider nads. And rip it out his bum and out the back of him.
Laura: Gross!
Liam: And just spill it all out the bottom. (all talking at once)
Sam: I'm right next to him, it might spill on me.
Liam: That's all right, that's all right.
Matt: As it's looming over Scanlan who's on his back, it's tearing into him and starting to gut him best it can. He's screaming from beneath. You rush underneath, tumble, bringing your dagger up and slam it right under the bottom of its abdomen.
Laura: Balls.
Matt: As you do it, (snarls), looks down towards you and right before its gaze can meet yours, you yank back with all your might, basically scissoring and jagged drawing the blade up the back of its body. As you do it, (imitates vomiting) leaps forward. It's now-soft torso and belly left open from the armor plates being shot off, spills a number of its warm innards right onto Scanlan's body and form.
Sam: Ugh, no! It went in my mouth! (Travis laughs)
Matt: And then it collapses on top of him..
Sam: Ah! (group laughs)
Matt: You take six points of crushing damage as the umber hulk collapses on top of you.
Travis: I run over and shove the umber hulk off of Scanlan.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Ugh! Ah!
Laura: Oh my gosh.
Sam: What just happened?
Marisha: I go over to Scanlan, and I just, I just lay my hands on him, and I cast Cure Wounds in a level 2 spot.
Liam: Nobody touches my man-wife. (group laughs)
Sam: What's that spell do?
Marisha: You do-- it's 2d8 plus 10 healing.
Sam: You roll, right?
Taliesin: Yep.
Marisha: Do I roll or does he?
Matt: For which spell is this?
Marisha: I'm doing Cure Wounds on him. At level two.
Matt: Cure Wounds, level two? 2d8 plus five.
Marisha: Do I roll?
Matt: You roll.
Marisha: So you heal, 16, 20 points.
Sam: Thank you.
Matt: So, as you heal him, touch him with the spell, you wipe the umber hulk ichor off of your hand.
Orion: I cast prestidigitation and clean everybody up.
Laura: Maybe you should jump in that water, Scanlan.
Travis: You should get in the water and clean yourself off.
Taliesin: We have running water. Use running water.
Sam: I think I wanna keep it on. (group laughs)
Orion: He's clean already.
Travis: As a badge of honor?
Sam: It's a badge of honor.
Liam: Like the walking dead, you're gonna sneak by the rest of 'em?
Sam: I think I'm gonna keep the blood on me, if you don't mind.
Laura: Alright.
Matt: That's, uh... okay.
Travis: Gross.
Sam: Warning to others.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: So, you still hear the rushing of the water down below. You now stand at this portion of the cavern, the dull glow in the distance of some sort of light source in that direction. The rest of the caverns opens up this way.
Laura: Ugh.
Travis: Let's go towards the light.
Sam: Can we take a short rest and heal up?
Travis: No, I run.
Laura: Short rest, short rest.
Travis: No, running.
Liam: Running?! (Sam laughs)
Sam: Why don't you let some people heal?
Matt: Grog goes running. Grog, who's interested.
Travis: I'm frenzy raging.
Sam: Oh God, Grog! Grog, no!
Travis: It's a bright, shiny thing. I'm going there!
Laura: He is frenzying.
Liam: I'm unscathed, so I run after Grog, just to give him backup if he needs.
Marisha: I'll follow after Vax.
Matt: All right, you guys head out. Eventually, you come around the corner to see what looks like a campfire.
Orion: I follow as well.
Travis: Aww.
Matt: It looks like a setup with a small bundle of, what looks like bedding. There's a campfire set up. It's mostly out at this point. Like there's still a little bit of a flame flicker to it, but it's just embers for the most part. Does not appear--
Travis: I start hacking away at the bedding. Just chopping the shit out of it.
Sam: Jesus! (group laughs)
Matt: Grog starts hacking away at the bedding. (Travis grunts)
Liam: I'm just watching and shrugging.
Laura: No, look and search around and see what's in the bedding.
Liam: I try to keep like six or seven foot difference--
Matt: (arrows whooshing)
Sam: Oh, no!
Liam: Fuck!
Matt: Three crossbow bolts come flying out of nowhere--
Liam: You dick!
Matt: --two hitting Grog.
Liam: You dick! (Marisha laughs)
Laura: Why weren't you stealthing?
Liam: I am now.
Travis: Somebody likes their bedding apparently.
Liam: I rolled a 29 of stealth as soon as the first arrow flew.
Marisha: That was a Coleman, alright? (group laughs) That was a very expensive sleeping bag.
Taliesin: Never attack the bedding before you know the thread count.
Travis: It was 3000 count Egyptian.
Taliesin: God.
Matt: Grog, you take seven points of piercing damage, which is halved to four because you're raging.
Travis: Right. (grunts)
Matt: As you can see what looks like three small--
Liam: Duergar.
Laura: No, they're dwarves.
Liam: Yeah, that's duergar. That's dark dwarves.
Laura: Oh!
Liam: I consider myself a nerd.
Matt: And some strange beast you've not seen before seems to be accompanying one of them.
Laura: Is that a brain?
Matt: It looks like an oversized, swollen brain with a set of claws.
Liam: It's hanging brain.
Sam: Krang?
Marisha: Brain?
Matt: It's just like a large brain with a set of arms and legs like a panther.
Laura: What?
Travis: It's the brain bug from Starship Troopers.
Marisha: That can't be good.
Orion: Take that out first.
Matt: Going off the same intiative order. They've gone.
Liam: I rolled a 29 stealth.
Matt: Yes, I know. So you haven't been seen, and you have the first action.
Travis: Are they on the same level as us?
Matt: They are, yes.
Liam: So I can dash and still attack?
Matt: If you'd like to.
Liam: I would love to. I would love to, uh-- where's this thing?
Laura: Go for the brain.
Liam: Yeah, of course go for the brain. I'm gonna hang brain. I'm gonna run over--
Matt: Well if you dash as your action--
Liam: Oh, I can't stealth? So to stay stealth, I need to go normal speed?
Matt: Well you can dash as your action, but dash is your, basically a double move. So you move and use your action to move as well.
Liam: And that's it.
Matt: That's all you'll be able to do.
Liam: Um, I'm gonna-- no. I'll you what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna go-- hey, god. I'm gonna move over here, stealthily. And go for ready.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: That's what it's called, right? And wait?
Matt: Just wait.
Liam: And the trigger is when this asshole duergar moves forward, I'm gonna stick him in the back of the neck.
Matt: Okay. All right.
Marisha: Nice.
Matt: Tiberius. You hear Grog go, "Ugh!"
Orion: Oh, it seems like there's trouble over there. (group laughs) What has Grog gotten himself into?
Marisha: I don't know. (Travis moans and strangles)
Orion: I saunter--
Travis: You saunter?
Sam: Saunter.
Orion: Yes.
Matt: You jump off your pillar.
Orion: Oh.
Matt: Saunter over here?
Orion: Yeah, I would go around there to-- That's good, I suppose. What's in between the-- between him and that. Is that a boulder?
Matt: It's a giant raised stalagmite.
Orion: I see, how tall is that?
Matt: It's about 25 feet tall.
Orion: Oh crap, okay.
Matt: All you see is Grog standing with three bolts sticking out of his chest now.
Laura: Oh no! (Travis imitates wood breaking)
Orion: I can't do anything too much.
Liam: Grog, I've got the hiccups.
Matt: Anything else, Tiberius? Gotta keep this moving.
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: The bolts.
Travis: Right.
Orion: I'll just cast stoneskin on myself. Okay, Stoneskin cast on you. That brings us to Vex.
Laura: All right, I can hear them screaming so I'm gonna run over. Call Trinket as I'm doing it.
Travis: Who's screaming?
Laura: You, you screamed.
Travis: No, I'm not screaming.
Matt: Do you want to use your full round to move? Cause that's as far as you can move currently. Actually you can move two more.
Laura: Can I see anything from that point?
Matt: All you see is Grog over there.
Liam: They're covered and he's around the bend, so I'd run in further.
Laura: All right, I'll run in further. Can I run in and stealth or is that it?
Matt: Uh, you can attempt to.
Laura: I'm gonna try to stealth as I'm going in.
Matt: You're at disadvantage on the stealth roll, but go for it.
Laura: Oh, a 20. Aw! 17, okay. Plus my stealth, which is five.
Matt: All right, so we'll say you're pulled off to the side there. The stealth twins over there being all stealthy-like. No one can see what's going on with them. It's like they're related.
Travis: What's all this stealthing? Where's all the killing?
Matt: That's your turn.
Laura: I can't attack anything.
Matt: Scanlan.
Sam: Okay, I'm gonna move right there into the room as far as I can.
Matt: You can go that far.
Sam: Okay. And cast Stinking Cloud right there. (Travis laughs) It's gonna smell like just ass over there. (group laughs)
Matt: Okay. Best you can see, and you haven't really seen where they are, so you're kind of like, oh, you have the idea that perhaps they're over in that vicinity on the bolts around there. So you can cast over in this area, which is the only thing you have view of.
Sam: Oh, oh, because that's a big rock in my view there.
Matt: This is a big rock right there, yeah.
Sam: Okay, so yeah. I'll put it right where you're saying, right there, yeah.
Matt: Okay, that's about where you can go. All right, so (hisses), a giant--
Travis: Ass cloud.
Matt: --green, ass cloud--
Orion: Scanlan, are you doing an ass cloud again?
Matt: --begins to fill this space here. As it does, they all begin to hack and cough. You can hear this now between the rest of you, echoing throughout.
Travis: I'm slightly aroused. (group laughs)
Orion: I was just going to say.
Travis: I'm drawn to the smell.
Sam: (imitates flute) --stinks.
Matt: ♫ Constitution saving throws. Everything in the cloud. ♫
Sam: (imitates flute) --stink.
Matt: ♫ All them are failing. ♫
Orion: Doing stink magic.
Matt: All right. You hear a cacophonous amount of hacking, coughing, as all of them drop their attack stances and begin just retching, nearly vomiting, in the middle of this green cloud of gas.
Travis: Outstanding.
Sam: I'll also take a great heal potion? Is that what they're called? Not moderate.
Matt: Yes, greater.
Sam: Great, greater, okay. I'll do that by myself. You keep going.
Matt: Okay, greater heal potion is 4d4 plus four.
Sam: Thank you.
Matt: All right, that brings us to Percy.
Taliesin: I'm going to start crawling around the-- I have a little thingy. Someone took the thingy. Oh, laser pointer. Thank you.
Liam: Hello, hey.
Travis: It's a black light.
Taliesin: I'm gonna start heading down this direction, and I'm going to actually spend a movement, spend my action and move a little further down, about, yeah, about there, so I can start getting a good look of what's up.
Matt: Okay, good. All right. That brings us to Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay, so I am going to take this and move up to about here, I guess.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Is where I can see. And then I'm gonna take this little block of stone right here, this stalagtite or mite or whatever it is--
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: --and I'm gonna use Wall of Stone. And instead of creating a wall, I'm just gonna take that one and I'm gonna push it (imitates thudding) against that wall and try and crush those guys.
Travis: Whoa!
Matt: Wait, you're gonna use Wall of Stone to try and push that back?
Marisha: I'm gonna take this wall, and I'm gonna go crunch.
Matt: All right.
Sam: Oh my God.
Travis: Can you do that?
Taliesin: That's kinda harsh.
Marisha: I don't know. We'll find out.
Laura: I like that that's the most common quip. "Can, can you do that?"
Sam: You can actually do that?
Orion: It's like earthbending.
Marisha: I'm trying to earthbend this wall.
Sam: Hey Grog. Did you ever write down our underwater spell, potion thingies, whatever those were called?
Travis: We got two of 'em.
Sam: Yeah, did you right it down, though? 'Cause I didn't.
Travis: What they were?
Taliesin: She's got waterbreathing, so.
Matt: So how it works is, Wall of Stone, you can create a wall of stone, but it cannot occupy the space of a creature. So you will not be able to push them back, unfortunately. But you could lock them into an area, if that's what you wanted to do.
Sam: The man telling us what we can and can't do. (group laughs)
Matt: It's the nature of the spell, guys.
Marisha: Yeah, that's a waste of time. Instead, I will-- I still got a Call Lightning going. Fuck it. I'm just gonna lightning bolt some bitches.
Matt: All right. You don't have view of any of them right now, unfortunately.
Marisha: Well, then I move to where I can.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Yeah good. Cop attitude with the DM.
Travis: Yeah, yeah.
Sam: The man in charge of our fates.
Taliesin: That always goes really well.
Matt: That'll be your turn.
Sam: Because of the attitude.
Matt: You moved twice. You had to get a long distance.
Marisha: Did I?
Matt: Yeah, because you were back here.
Laura: Yeah, dude. It was really far away, yo. I've got a decent speed, okay, fine. That's my turn then.
Matt: Sorry.
Liam: Fuck those Wizards of the Coast, man! I do what I wanna do.
Marisha: Fucking Seattle assholes.
Matt: All right, so.
Orion: I love Seattle.
Liam: So do I.
Matt: And what's the DC again of your spell?
Sam: Ah, oh.
Sam: Spell save DC, is that right? 19.
Matt: 19. All right. All three of the-- and you can now get a view of them. They are dwarven, but their skin is ashy and grey. Their eyes are white and pupil-less. And they are all on the verge of vomiting right now. They're both just keeling over. One of them tries to bring a crossbow up, and (imitates vomiting) has to put it back down again. They are unable to act this turn. The weird brain creature, however--
Marisha: That's awesome.
Travis: What, has no nostrils?
Taliesin: There's nowhere for him to retch from.
Matt: It moves out of the cloud, looks over at you Grog.
Sam: Oh, no.
Matt: And just bears down for a second. And you feel this... intrusion in your mind.
Travis: On my professor-torial mind.
Matt: Go ahead and make an intelligence saving throw.
Sam: Oh, those aren't good for you.
Marisha: Oh, no. (Travis laughs)
Taliesin: Well this, this ends poorly.
Travis: Oh good, my modifier's negative 2, so yippee-kye-ay-eh. Six.
Matt: Alright.
Orion: Good roll.
Taliesin: Good roll.
Marisha: That's a good number.
Matt: You suffer nine points of psychic damage as there's a sudden blast of excruciating pain in the center of your brain. It actually shakes you a moment from your rage, which then fills your mind once again.
Travis: Like Kenny G music coming through my brain.
Taliesin: Someone needs a Juggernaut helmet.
Matt: Also, you suffer--
Marisha: He needs a Magneto helmet.
Taliesin: Yeah, he needs the full Magneto.
Matt: --8 points of intelligence damage technically. You immediately fall unconscious. (Laura gasps)
Marisha: What?!
Matt: Your intelligence is brought to zero.
Travis: Ah! But I was at six!
Liam: You gotta kill that thing.
Laura: Oh no!
Travis: I turn into a turnip?
Matt: That brings us to-- (Matt laughs) Tiberius.
Orion: Tiberius, I mean--
Matt: Yes, you're Tiberius.
Orion: I say--
Matt: You just watched Grog just go (groans) and fall to the ground. Almost into the campfire.
Laura: Oh, no.
Travis: It's like when I tried to read 50 Shades of Grey. (groans)
Orion: Okay, I'm gonna--
Taliesin: Around the bear.
Orion: Okay, I'm gonna go right up to where Grog is.
Matt: All right.
Orion: Right there, right in front of him. Now can I see the brain fucker?
Matt: Yes, you can from there.
Marisha: The brain fucker.
Matt: The brain fucker's official name.
Taliesin: Brain lover, brain lover.
Orion: Ooh, you're a nasty one.
Marisha: He's a lover, not a fighter.
Orion: I'm gonna fire a glacial blast at this dude.
Matt: Okay. Single targeted beam.
Taliesin: Lobey.
Marisha: Lobey.
Taliesin: We're gonna name him Lobey.
Marisha: Let's call him Lobey. (Laura laughs)
Matt: Makes its saving throw.
Taliesin: "Lobey, no!"
Matt: What's your DC?
Orion: My DC is 17.
Matt: It just rolled a 17, yeah. It makes the saving throw. So half damage.
Taliesin: Take him everywhere.
Orion: Four, six, and 8d6.
Taliesin: Our little Lobey.
Marisha: Can we call him Jeff, Jeff Lobey?
Sam: Is that campfire still firing?
Taliesin: Jeff Lobey.
Matt: It's embers, yeah. 21, 22, 23. 24, 26, 27, 22. 29 damage.
Matt: 29 damage? (Taliesin laughing)
Matt: As you put your arms out, you focus this blast of just freezing cold arcane energy that slams into the side of this brain creature.
Taliesin: Jeff Lobey, thank you.
Matt: As it does, you see it begins to freeze its entire body. As it reaches up and tries to climb up it solidifies and then shatters into a hundred million pieces. (group cheers)
Sam: Oh, the brain's dead.
Taliesin: You killed Jeff Lobey!
Marisha: You killed Jeff Lobey.
Sam: Lisa Loeb?
Marisha: Lisa Lobey! (group laughs) They just keep going!
Matt: Lisa Loeb and then the nine intelligence damage. All right. So the brain just (imitates shattering) cascades across the ground.
Liam: Lisa Lobey.
Matt: And thank God. Vex, you're now seeing three dwarves retching and coughing over, kind of looking about very nervously.
Laura: Can I move to where I can get a line of site on that one?
Matt: On this one here?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah, you can move to there and get a line of sight.
Laura: Okay cool, then I'm gonna shoot him. Oh wait, no, I can't.
Sam: Why?
Laura: Yeah yeah yeah, I'm gonna do that.
Liam: You still have a little bit of cover.
Laura: I'm gonna do-- it's fine, I got it. I'm really good.
Liam: Just be a badass, okay? That's your job.
Laura: Okay. 27.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: Are you alright, big guy?
Liam: "Muh!"
Laura: Oh, I should've tried to-- it's okay.
Liam: "Muh! Muh!"
Sam: It's weird, Grog weirdly seems smarter now than he was before.
Laura: Hunter's Mark on that guy.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Beep boop.
Matt: Good remembering.
Marisha: Professor Grog's having a hard time.
Laura: 11.
Matt: 11, all right.
Laura: 11, and then I'm gonna hit him again. And that's a 23.
Matt: All right.
Laura: And that is nine damage for that arrow. And then the six for a Hunter's Mark is five.
Matt: So a total of...?
Laura: Oh jeez-louise, 30 plus five is... 35.
Matt: (imitates arrows flying) "Ugh!" The hacking, coughing duergar dwarf is like, (coughs) One in the shoulder, and the other shoulder. And it looks like that you, (inhales sharply) As it inhales a big old whiff of horrible stinking cloud gas, the arrow (imitates arrow flying) through its throat and out the back of its head. Falls flat on its back.
Laura: Yeah. (group cheers)
Matt: The other ones look nervously about.
Marisha: Get him a pillow! What!
Matt: One of them's just coughing out, saying something in Undercommon. (speaks in angry gibberish)
Matt: Anyone here speak Undercommon?
Laura: I do!
Matt: You do?
Sam: You speak Undercommon?
Laura: I do.
Taliesin: Oondercommon.
Laura: I knew we were gonna be going down into some--
Matt: You hear him say, "Quick, there's our exit! Back, back to the master."
Laura: (whispering) Back to the master!
Travis: Who's the master?
Laura: You're unconscious.
Matt: All right. That brings us to Scanlan.
Sam: Ah, shit. I did not understand them, right? So I don't know that they're going to run.
Matt: No.
Travis: Let 'em run back to the master and we'll track 'em.
Sam: I didn't learn that they're running, so. Can I call out that I heard them? Say, "Don't let them run!"
Matt: No, this happening just as you heard them.
Sam: Okay, well. I don't have a good line of sight on them, so I don't even know that they're there really, right? I just hear coughing in the distance.
Matt: Yep. Then I'll just move further into the cavern there. And I don't know that this works, but I'll try to cast Dispel Magic on Grog.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I don't know if that, if it's magic. I have no idea.
Matt: So you go ahead and you focus, you cast Dispel Magic in Grog's vicinity.
Sam: ♫ Wake up, Grog ♫
Matt: You see the shift of arcane, waving energy.
Travis: ♫ If I only had a brain ♫
Matt: It does not seem to have an effect.
Sam: It doesn't do it! Damn it! Then as my bonus action, can I still give him an inspiration dice to do on like saving...?
Matt: You think at this point, Grog isn't unconscious. Grog is catatonic. Grog has no intelligence. There is nothing home. You see him, on the ground, drooling, eyes glazed over. There is nothing there.
Taliesin: You can't inspire a cantaloupe.
Laura: What are we gonna do?
Taliesin: The cantaloupe, it's not gonna feel better about itself.
Sam: Okay, then I give my dice to Vax.
Taliesin: I've tried insulting a cantaloupe, you just don't get anywhere.
Sam: Vax, I've just inspired you. (imitates flute)
Matt: I think the chat room's catching on for those who know D&D well.
Liam: Okay, I hear a little shithead grey-skinned dwarf--
Sam: Wait, it's not your turn. I just gave you dice. I thought you said Vax. Okay, sorry.
Matt: It's all right. So that ends Scanlan's turn. Percy.
Liam: Damn it.
Taliesin: Laser. I'm going to take my laser.
Matt: Your laser? Point your laser? (Liam imitates ray gun)
Taliesin: All right, I want to crawl forward to the other side of Grog over there, so I can see this little jerk.
Matt: It's a tough call, he has cover. You can still see him.
Taliesin: I ignore cover. It's one of my magical things that I do.
Liam: Three-quarters cover according to the new rules.
Marisha: Yeah, he's got a gun.
Taliesin: Yeah, I ignore half or three-quarters cover.
Matt: Then you can ignore three-quarters cover, which he has. So, yes.
Taliesin: Okay, I ignore it. I'm also going to take a penalty to my attack bonus to attempt to do some damage and to not kill, but injure, if possible.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I wanna leave one for questioning.
Matt: Okay. So go ahead and roll disadvantage on this attack. Or do you want to just do subdual damage, which is what you're doing?
Taliesin: Yeah. All right, so you're gonna aim in a way that doesn't do lethal damage. Go for it.
Matt: It's a normal attack, there's no penalty to it.
Taliesin: Just my penalty for extra damage.
Matt: Mm hm.
Taliesin: Aha! I crit! So that's fun. Let's roll damage. 9, 10, that's 25 points of damage.
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: 25 points of damage. All right, you run around the corner, pull the gun out, and aim at this like-- (coughs) Where you look now, you see this ghastly looking, evil, female-looking grey-skinned dwarf. Looks over at you and (gasps) reacts and goes for her weapon. As you do, you let loose and fire straight into her shoulder, blasting through most of her shoulder, exposing bone. It's not a deahtblow, but you see she has been incapacitated.
Orion: Nice.
Taliesin: That's my turn.
Laura: I call out, "Let one of them live, so I can question them."
Taliesin: That's-- we got one.
Matt: Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: We got one?
Taliesin: We got one.
Marisha: Well, then.
Matt: That dwarf survived. With one hit point.
Marisha: If we got the guy we need. I will move over a bit. Yeah. And... (imitates energy firing)
Matt: All right, go for it.
Liam: Vines?
Matt: First off, make a constitution save, 'cause you stepped into a stinking cloud. Unless you wanna move back here. There you go.
Marisha: Not having control.
Matt: Laser pointer.
Marisha: I do (mumbles). Okay. So that is... what is that? 22?
Matt: 22 points of damage. All right. So the bolt streaks from the cloud in the sky, slamming into this other duergar. As it sparks into the ground, you see bits of stone get thrown up from the sheer force of the bolt, doing a sincere amount of damage to it. Not enough to finish it, but it looks very, very fucked up. You can see part of its face is charred now, and it's reeling from the blast. Probably blew out its eardrums from the cacophonous blast of the thunder.
Marisha: That's my turn.
Matt: That's your turn. It's now both of their turn. They both failed their saves with a two and a four. They're both still hacking and coughing in the stinking cloud. Uh, go bards. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay, and there's a big cloud of poo stink around them, so--
Matt: Correct, so all here.
Orion: "The poo cloud," Keyleth calls it.
Liam: God dammit. All right.
Marisha: Do I? "The poo cloud."
Liam: Fuck it.
Sam: Just go in there, man.
Liam: I'm gonna hold my breath, and I'm gonna go one, two, three, four, five, and grab this guy around the neck and hold my daggers to his neck. And just hunker down and try to hold him hostage.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a constitution check.
Travis: A dirty mafia check?
Liam: Is that a, is that a--
Matt: With advantage, because you're holding your breath.
Liam: Okay. 14.
Travis: Just breathe it in.
Sam: Use the dice! Use the dice!
Liam: What did you give me?
Sam: A d8.
Liam: 22.
Sam: No, it's not an eight. A d8. You gotta roll it.
Matt: Roll a d8 to add to it.
Liam: 15. (group laughs)
Liam: It came up a one.
Travis: 22!
Matt: So, as you rush in the cloud, (breathes deeply) you run in, pull your daggers out, and because this isn't a natural cloud, the arcane force puts it in your nostrils and you can't help yourself. (coughs) Your turn immediately ends as you begin feeling your lunch retching up into your stomach.
Travis: Puke on him.
Matt: Okay. That brings us to Grog. You are a--
Travis: Oh, I got it. (blows raspberry)
Matt: You are brain-dead. (group laughs) Tiberius, you're up.
Laura: So sorry, Grog.
Sam: Can we heal him, what is it? What do we need to do?
Marisha: We'll figure that out when we kill this guy, I guess.
Laura: Restoration?
Liam: Can you dispel that shit?
Sam: I tried, I tried.
Marisha: He can't dispel it, It's not magic. But I might be able to cure him afterwards.
Liam: Tiberius, can you dispel that shit?
Orion: It's the same spell.
Laura: It's a restoration spell, it's not a dispel.
Marisha: I might be able to.
Orion: So, the guy knocked down over there is-- let me see that pointer. This guy, that's the one that we knocked out with the arrow?
Taliesin: Yeah, that's the dead one.
Orion: The dead one or the one we knocked out?
Taliesin: He's dead.
Orion: Who do we have incapacitated?
Taliesin: That's the one we shot.
Marisha: That's the one Liam has.
Laura: Let one live.
Orion: And the one right here is...?
Liam: The one by me is weak.
Matt: Both of them are pretty weak right now, actually.
Orion: I think I can step next to Percy without stepping into that cloud.
Matt: So you can step over Grog, get around here, you mean?
Laura: (laughs) Honk.
Travis: That's-- come on.
Orion: Sorry, excuse me, Grog, pardon. I will shoot a firebolt at the butthole across the way.
Matt: There? All right. Go ahead and roll for the attack.
Orion: 14.
Matt: 14. Unfortunately does not hit. You aim, and it manages to just pull out of the way.
Laura: Oh my gosh.
Matt: Vex. You're up.
Laura: Me?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: I step over, and I try to shoot the one that he just-- I stay out of the stink.
Matt: There you go, yeah. Pull back-- (imitates bow shooting arrow)
Laura: All right.
Matt: Roll to attack.
Laura: 23.
Matt: That hits, go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: 8.
Matt: That's enough. As the arrow (imitates arrow flying), careens off, slams into the chest. (groans) It catches itself, steps back, and plummets off the side of the cliff onto the lower floor about 20 feet down. Smack, onto the ground.
Laura: And I ask Scanlan to dispel the stank cloud.
Taliesin: Dispel the stank.
Laura: And I yell-- Can I yell out "surrender" in Undercommon?
Matt: You yell out, (speaks angry gibberish)! (Laura speaks angry gibberish)
Matt: Make an intimidation check.
Travis: That was a very good Klingon translation.
Laura: Klingon. (Liam speaks angry gibberish) Whoa! Okay. Um, eight.
Matt: Eight?
Laura: Eight.
Liam: What is with the dice tonight?
Matt: It rolled a one. (group cheers)
Matt: It looks around and its circumstances being extremely dire. It drops its weapons, falls to its knees. At your mercy. That's where we'll end the game tonight.
Sam: Oh!
Taliesin: Hey!
Travis: What?!
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: You're, you're-- yeah.
Sam: Grog is brain dead.
Marisha: I was gonna say, can I go over and heal Grog before we end?
Travis: I'm Vanilla Sky right now.
Matt: Nope, we're picking up next week.
Laura: Oh no.
Liam: Just five more hours, Matt. Just five more hours.
Matt: We'll say for the circumstance here, you go ahead and spend a healing spell on him. His wounds mend, no effect on his catatonic state. (group groans)
Sam: We have to wait a week.
Matt: Well guys, that's episode two of Critical Role. (laughs)
Marisha: Damn it.
Matt: I hope you enjoyed it. Remember to tell your friends to come watch. We'll be back next week, Thursday at 7:00. I know the schedule said seven to nine. We usually run a little later. Because D&D and why not?
Laura: Oh, is this seven to nine?
Matt: It says seven to nine in the schedule, but we consider seven to ten. But yeah, hope you guys had fun. Thank you so much for watching. Hope we will have our donations up next week. Feel free to check it out. This is Zac, our amazing master of all awesomeness on this Twitch channel. Hey Zac, what's going on?
Zac: Hey, good job, guys.
Matt: Thank you, thank you.
Zac: You got a thousand subscribers. (group cheers)
Zac: Crazy, that's like, two weeks in.
Matt: Yeah, I know. You go, Nyal. We'll get you your stuff.
Marisha: Yeah, you get a Player's Handbook. That's lucky.
Zac: We'll get you your shit! I gotta print that photo so you guys can all sign it.
Matt: Yes yes, let's go do that.
Zac: No, it'll probably be sent to you next Friday, 'cause we'll have you guys sign it next Thursday.
Laura: Sounds good.
Matt: Okay, cool.
Travis: Zac, do you have any renew intelligence potions on you, by chance?
Zac: For you?
Travis: Yeah.
Zac: No.
Travis: Shit.
Matt: Sorry buddy.
Zac: So we're not going offline for the night yet. These guys are gonna head out and Lucas and I are gonna play some Hotline Miami 2. For an hour, hour and a half.
Matt: There you go, rock it out.
Zac: You know, just to close out the night with a subscriber-only chat to say thank you to our thousand subscribers. And tomorrow night we will be back with So You Don't Have to, which is a show where Hector and Becca play the weirdest games they can find online, so you don't have to.
Marisha: Nice. (Matt laughs)
Zac: And then we finish off tomorrow night with Gather Your Party, which is just a big party where we're going to be celebrating getting 1000 subscribers, playing some board games. We have a band coming in to play.
Matt: Awesome.
Zac: It's gonna be a good time. We might even have a DJ spinning some-- I don't know. How do you say it? Spinning?
Travis: Some tunes.
Matt: Spin tunes.
Travis: Dropping some dope beats.
Orion: On the ones and twos. Ones and twos.
Zac: So thank you guys again. Lucas, if you wanna go ahead and roll those videos, and we'll get you guys out of here.
Matt: Thank you guys for watching.
All: Bye!

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, welcome to the fifth episode of Critical Role! Before we start and get into the videos for our initial intro, let me go over a couple of things for the evening. First off, we're shooting to get to 1,500 subscribers by this evening, and as soon as we get there, we're giving out a promo kit that's worth about $250, which is awesome. We'll all go ahead and sign it at the end of the day and get it out to you as well. Also, Tabletop Day is coming up this Saturday, and a few of us will be showing up during the stream as well and any of you guys playing your own tabletop games at home, or whatever the case may be, if you go to the website and register, for each person that registers, we're giving away a boardgame to the charity Big Brothers and Big Sisters, so that's a really, really cool thing that you guys should get involved with. That's this Saturday, at International Tabletop Day, and also, we received a present apparently from the audience.
Travis: A present?
Matt: That I get to open.
Liam: Vat eez zis present? [static]
Matt: I don't know vat zis present eez, but now I get to open zis.
All: Ooh!
Matt: This is for all of us, apparently.
Taliesin: What kind of sack is that?
Matt: It is a big-- oh, it is a gigantic sack.
Orion: Ooh, I love gigantic sacks
Matt: Oh my god guys, this is, this is amazing!
Laura: There's a card on it.
Matt: All right.
Laura: On the other side.
Matt: There's a card? Oh snap. By the power of #TeamNoStream, you have the power. By Negihama, thank you Negihama.
All: Thank you Negihama!
Matt: That's amazing, as we now have for the group, a castle Greyskull.
All: Huzzah! Yay!
Matt: So during the intro break we're going to go ahead and open this and find a place for it nearby, 'cause this is now representative of the keep that the players have waiting for them at Emon once they get out of this horrible mess. Anyway guys, welcome to Critical Role, let's get into those intros, shall we?
Ashley: Pike grew up in the outskirts of town, near the Bramblewood. Her ancestors were a family of deep gnomes with quite an unfavorable reputation. Thievery, destruction, and trickery left them with the curse of the last name of Trickfoot. Sarenrae, the goddess of healing and redemption, had other plans for Pike's great-great-grandfather Wilhand, who left his family at a young age after a dream-- a dream that changed the course of the Trickfoot family. Wilhand devoted his life to Sarenrae, and pledged from then on that him and his family would live a life of service and devotion. As a child, Pike seemed to have an affinity to heal. Whether it was animals, people, or even flowers, she felt she had a purpose in making things whole that had once been broken. She studied and learned the ways to heal through divine magic. She lived a peaceful life, quiet and simple, until one day, Wilhand was captured and almost killed by a group of goliath barbarians. One of the goliaths took a stand against the murder of the innocent gnome, and he himself was beaten, bloodied, and left for dead, abandoned by his herd. Wilhand went to Pike for help. She prayed, and healed this barbarian as best she could, bringing him back to life. When he awoke, she discovered his name was Grog Strongjaw. After that, they were the best of friends, a rather unlikely pair. Little did she know that in a few years' time, Grog would soon return the favor and bring her back from the clutches of death. After being killed in battle, Pike felt angry. She wanted to be stronger, so that it would never happen again. She spent four months at sea, training with the men and women aboard a ship called The Broken Howl. Gripping her holy symbol in one hand, and her morningstar in the other, this time, Pike is ready.
Travis: Right, listen up! If you have ale, then you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw. A goliath of towering height and size, this barbarian has an appetite for the two great loves in his life: combat, women, and ale. Wait. Easily the brains of the group, Grog is often consulted for his vast knowledge of shapes, colors, and shiny things. Also ale. In his early years, armed with his two-handed greataxe, Grog often enjoyed proving his might amongst the ranks of his family's wandering herd. But after coming upon an unsuspecting elderly gnome in the woods, he objected to the killing of such an innocent life. A creature of impulse, Grog felt only pity for this terrified little thing. His disobedience cost him dearly. Beaten bloody and banished by the herd leader, his uncle Kevdak, Grog was abandoned and left to die. Exiled from his herd, it was then that the relative of the very gnome he fought to save, saved him. It was the kindness of a gnome cleric named Pike that healed Grog, bringing him back from death's edge. And they have remained close friends ever since. Most nights, Grog can be found challenging entire taverns to wrestling matches! Or accompanying Scanlan to the nearest house where you pay for lady favors. Also ale.
Marisha: A first impression of Keyleth would leave you with little information on the half-elven druid. You might even think that her social awkwardness due to her sheltered upbringing is kind of sweet. Of course, it would be unwise to underestimate her based on first impressions. Under that unintimidating petite frame is a vicious beast waiting to be unleashed, whose natural powers have made even the fiercest of champions pee their pants. Literally. Born to the Air tribe of the Ashari people, Keyleth was raised with a deep love of nature and the elemental magics. It is her people's inherent duty to protect the delicate areas in Tal'Dorei where the four elemental planes begin to bleed with this realm. Since she was a little girl, she had quite a knack for air manipulation and beast shaping abilities. Well, if you consider kittens and flying squirrels to be little beasts. Which I do. Anyways, it wasn't long before the headmaster of the tribe, her father, Korren, realized her true prodigious abilities and she was inveterated to succeed him as the next headmaster. Just like that, her jovial childhood was stripped and replaced with endless spell memorization, teachings from ancient traditions, and exceedingly high expectations. Every druid leader-to-be must embark on a journey to seek out the sister tribes in order to introduce and establish respect amongst the fellow headmasters. They call this the Aramente, or Noble Odyssey. When her father felt she was ready, he set her on the path to truly discovering herself. Not knowing when, or if, she will ever return. As she hiked down the mountain towards Stillben, she meditated on the task ahead. Part of the Aramente is proving yourself a strong warrior, a valiant protector, and a wise and compassionate leader. With this knowledge, one thought plays in repeat in her mind: is she even worthy?
Taliesin: Percy was the third of seven children, born to a noble family who lived far to the north, in the ancient castle of Whitestone. With so many siblings to share the burdens of lordship, Percy turned his attentions to the sciences, engineering, and naturalism. One day, a mysterious couple, named Lord and Lady Briarwood, came to court. During a feast held in their honor, the Briarwoods violently took control of the castle, killing or imprisoning everyone who would stand in their way. Percy awoke chained in the dungeon, only to be freed by his younger sister. Together they fled, chased by the Briarwoods' men. As they ran, Percy's sister took several arrows to the chest and fell. Percy kept running, eventually jumping into a freezing river and floating unconscious to freedom. He did not remember waking up on a fishing boat. He barely remembered the next two years, as he slowly made his way as far south as possible. Then one night, Percy had a dream. A roaring cloud of smoke offered him vengeance against those who destroyed his family. When he awoke, Percy began to design his first gun. (gunshot)
Sam: Oh, you haven't heard of Scanlan Shorthalt? Well, gird your loins, ladies, because he has his eye on you. A talented musician, master of disguise, and dashingly handsome in his own mind, Scanlan sings songs almost as much as he sings his own praises. Born a poor gnome, Scanlan used his endless charm and soaring tenor voice to croon for coin and support his single mother. One day, he was discovered by a half-orc promoter, and joined Dr. Dranzel's Spectacular Traveling Troupe, where he learned the ways of the world and honed his skills as a bard extraordinaire. A loner much of his life, Scanlan has never quite come to terms with the violent death of his mother at the hands of a goblin invasion. While his years on the road provided many, shall we say, educational experiences with the opposite sex, deep down Scanlan yearns for the one thing he's never known: the true love of a fellow gnome. Still, Scanlan considers himself a lover first, performer second, and fighter distant third. On the battlefield, he'll support his allies, but rarely draws blood unless it's to protect fellow gnome, Pike. Count on Scanlan for a hearty laugh, a rollicking song, and a twinkle in his eye that melts hearts and makes the females swoon.
Orion: Greetings and salutations. I am Tiberius Stormwind. I hail from a town called Ty'rex, located in the heart of Draconia, born from a politically respected family. At the age of 15, I succeeded in passing the Sorcerer's Rite, showing prodigy-like control of my magic. The judges and the Draconian High Council were amazed at how powerful my spells were for how long I had been training. At 20 years old, I was the youngest appointed member of the Magic Guild in Draconian history. For the next few years, I almost went mad from the malaise of being a guild member, as it's rather boring. However, one day I happened upon a chamber, unused for quite some time. In the room were stacks of books and maps of the surrounding cities and areas around the known world. For months I would frequent the chamber, and learned of artifacts from legend. After a long period of research, I made a list of artifacts that caught my eye. I brought these findings to the High Council and was told that all of the information in the chamber I had stumbled upon was either believed to be fiction, or unsolvable mysteries, and hence were lost forever. I found those answers to be unacceptable. A year later, I devised a ruse and managed to convince the city council to lend support in me leaving Draconia on a mission of peace and diplomacy for the surrounding kingdoms, going from town to town and making friends and allies, in and for the name of Draconia. Being a red dragonborn, I had quite the task on my hands in that respect, but it was exactly what I needed so I could explore the world and find these artifacts, as I felt the truth was out there. Some may describe me as buffoonish, but I say poppycock to all that. I am much sharper than most give me credit for. I just don't pay attention to things sometimes. I've also been known to be rather cunning, loyal, happy-go-lucky, and well, dangerous. I can't help but show my true scales every now and then. But overall, I think I'm quite friendly for a dragonborn.
Liam: Never entirely welcome in the company of elves or men, Vax'ildan learned at a young age to skip past formality, preferring instead to invite himself in your door. Along with twin sister Vex'ahlia, Vax was born by a chance encounter between elven royalty and human peasantry. Raised by their mother in their early years, the twins were eventually sent off to their father in the elven capital of Syngorn, but their cool reception among the elves there never warmed, and their time in the capital didn't last. The siblings stole away one autumn night and set out on the open road. After a few years of wandering, they eventually decided to return to their mother, and journeyed back to the lands of their youth. But instead of finding their childhood home, they returned to a pile of rubble. Their mother was gone, their home burned to ash. Pressing the townspeople for answers, they learned of the day the dragon came. With their ties all severed, Vax'ildan and his sister set out to find their fortune together in Tal'Dorei. An outsider since birth, Vax quickly learned to solve life's challenges in his own particular way, often by sidestepping them entirely. And when his knack for circumventing adversity isn't enough, the way of blades the elves schooled him in more than makes up the difference.
Laura: Like so many half-elves, Vex'ahlia has spent most of her life suffering the cool reception of a people who don't fully accept her. Born of a human mother and an elven father who only later in life took an interest in their existence, Vex'ahlia and her twin brother Vax'ildan quickly realized the only people they could truly rely on in this world were each other. It was at the age of ten when the two were taken from their mother, and brought to live in Syngorn, the isolated elven city for which their father was an ambassador. He quietly took them in, but always kept an icy distance, and after too many years of disdainful looks, the pair decided to leave his indifference behind, and set out on their own. Vax took to the cities, stealing small trinkets and learning the ways of the thief, while Vex kept to the woods. She preferred the isolation. Always the keen observer, she learned to hunt and to track, to spy and to shoot. And through a series of fateful events, earned herself a companion in the form of a bear, her own stolen Trinket, to fight alongside her and protect her fiercely. Also, he is adorable and gives expert massages.
Matt: Welcome back, guys. So we finally have Pike's video finished, so I hope you got to enjoy that. As a heads-up, too, unfortunately we're going to be down one Scanlan due to work, but that's okay, the bard will be in our hearts this evening, and you're welcome to tweet at him angrily to make sure he makes the next session.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: So, without further ado, let's go and kick into the recap. So, the party has initially been sent down on a mission by the arcanist Allura Vysoren in search of a halfling paladin who has gone missing, named Lady Kima of Vord. A folk hero and a very respected individual, she went on a vision quest and apparently went alone into Kraghammer seeking some sort of great evil that was festering beneath the city, and hasn't been seen for weeks and weeks. The party was hired by her to go and try to find her whereabouts and hopefully bring her back safely. Since traversing and meeting individuals in Kraghammer, they then spearheaded into the Greyspine Mines where apparently these monstrosities have been burbling out time and time again over the past few weeks. Pushing down, they had encountered umber hulks, they managed to inquire some duergar, which, apparently there's a lot of them down here. Duergar being an ashy-skinned, subterranean dark, evil dwarf-type offshoot. One of which had with it a brain-type quadruped that managed to Brain Spike Grog and send him catatonic for a short time. They, wandering through the caverns, discovered there was a duergar war camp across the way from-- across this large chasm that was currently being run by a general duergar alongside what appeared to be, and what they've now discovered to be, a mind flayer or an illithid. They managed to, upon looking deeper into this cavern, finding hidden behind a waterfall, thanks to the druid and the ranger, completely stealing from the rest of the group their flying carpet, made a very tenuous relationship and alignment with another mind flayer, apparently cast out of his own society, searching to find a way to both get revenge and find his way back into his colony of people. And his name was Clarota, lovingly called Clarence by the group, probably much to his own chagrin. After which they decided to go ahead and try to extract information from this duergar general, and stop this war camp from preparing itself for battle and attack, seemingly, on Kraghammer in the near future. Through a strange, crazy plan they came up with, they managed to fly undetected over via flying carpet and eagle, and floating sorcerer, over the entire war camp, made a Metal Gear run into the center of their main barracks-- (all laugh)
Matt: -- threw a bucket of goblin shit into the face of the one mind flayer--
Ashley: Whoops.
Matt: -- after which, Vax bisected it, pretty much, in one surprise round of attacks that led to a large battle in the center of this building, partway through which ground began to rumble. And then digging a forth from underneath, a bulette, a gargantuan armored, burrowing creature that was hungry and very dangerous that then made the battle that much more intense. A heavy, blood-filled battle later, involved with Percy getting his hand caught and firing his gun into the gullet of the beast, eventually it had its armor pulled apart and was defeated by the party. The remnants of the duergar army inside of this building have been destroyed, aside from a few stragglers who have laid their weapons down, and the general now lies beaten, on his knees before the rest of the party. And that is where we pick up and begin. So, as you all are catching your breath, breathing heavily, as the adrenaline slowly leaves the system. Looking around this building, with the large hole still glaring through the roof.
Orion: I'm waving through it.
Matt: Tiberius is waving through it.
Laura: Oh, you're still up top.
Matt: The general's on the ground, warhammer at his side, blackened armor still kind of sizzling with the arcane energy from his temporary Banishment via Scanlan. He sits there with this kind of gnarled, brackish beard, looking about the rest of you with these wild kind of white-coated eyes. "So you found your way in. What's your purpose? What do you want from me?"
Liam: Well, Vax walks right up to him and walks behind him and grabs him by the hair, and right back to this position. Let's have a talk.
Laura: Oh.
Liam: Would you care to have a chat?
Laura: Of course I would, thank you.
Matt: "If you want blood, take it. It's all you're getting from me."
Travis: Okay, kill him.
All: No, wait!
Orion: Hold on a second, ask the question.
Laura: We don't want your blood.
Orion: What are we asking?
Laura: We're looking for a halfling. Have you seen one?
Matt: "I don't know what you're talking about."
Laura: A female halfling. She came down here.
Matt: "Well, she wouldn't have gotten far if she did. Not with my people."
Liam: I take my dagger and stick it in about a centimeter and say, your master is gone, it's just you and your friends here now, I think it's in your best interest to talk. You could walk away from here. You don't have to die if you can play nicely.
Orion: And believe me when I tell you he usually kills everybody. He doesn't give that offer very often. (all laugh)
Matt: Go ahead and make an intimidation roll with advantage.
Travis: First roll of the night. First roll of the night.
Orion: Yeah!
Liam: Natural 20! (all laugh and cheer)
Matt: That's a way to start.
Marisha: The first one tonight!
Laura: That's the way!
Travis: Probably those eight miles you rode.
Orion: Shush!
Matt: As you pull the blade to his throat, he chuckles deeply against the strain. "Your halfling lass was foolish. We took her. We delivered her to King Murghol as a present. If she lives, she's probably ruined and broken deep within the dungeons of Emberhold. You're welcome to go for her there."
Liam: Who's this king of yours?
Laura: King what?
Marisha: Murgholt?
Matt: "Murghol."
Orion: Which way should we head?
Matt: "Ooh, down, probably."
Orion: I mean, is there any particular shortcuts or less running into your kind along the way, I suppose?
Matt: "I highly doubt it." He spits in your direction.
Orion: Oh! Prestidigitation. And I catch it and throw it back into his face.
Marisha: Can I do an insight check to see if he's lying about that?
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: I think we have some prisoners to free or something as well.
Laura: Yes.
Marisha: 22.
Matt: He does not appear to be lying about his interpretation of her, apparently she is where he is. As to where her current state is, you don't know, but he seems to have a very, very made-up mind as to her possibility of her being alive still.
Marisha: What about a secret path that we can maybe get through to avoid some of these people? Was kind of wondering if he's lying.
Matt: You can press him that information even harder.
Marisha: Hey guys, we should press him for information about this passage.
Liam: Just a couple of more questions.
Laura: Can I start speaking to him in Underdark?
Matt: Of course.
Laura: And I ask him--
Marisha: That's hot.
Laura: Yep, it's an awesome language. Tell me about the hidden passages. I know there are some. I am good tonight, you guys
Travis: What does Underdark sound like, by the way? (all laugh)
Laura: It sounds kind of like--
Taliesin: Parseltongue?
Liam: It's like Pig Latin.
Laura: (speaking Undercommon)
Travis: Mm, no!
Liam: Ere-way are the idden-hay assages-pay?
Matt: It's kind of reminiscent of Black Speech from the Tolkien universe, that has that guttural (speaking Black Speech) very, very deep.
Laura: Oh right, that.
All: (speaking Black Speech)
Matt: A little bit like a whispering darkness to it. As she speaks this tongue, it catches a lot of you off guard, you've not heard her use this tongue until this point. Make an intimidation check.
Ashley: (gasps) Vex, what are you doing? What is this coming out of your mouth?
Travis: That sounds real pretty.
Laura: Right, I have my papers.
Matt: Get your sheet ready.
Laura: Oh noes, hold on, hold on.
Matt: You got your paper today? Lovely.
Liam: She's bonafide.
Laura: 18.
Matt: 18. He says, "No passages to the stronghold, but there is a way in. Aside from the front. Good luck getting up in there from that point."
Ashley: Is it through the lake?
Matt: "Yes, through the lake. Deep below, you'll find a tunnel. This tunnel will lead you to a subterranean passage straight to the stronghold."
Laura: Can we check to make sure he's not untruthful?
Matt: Make an insight.
Laura: (groans) Okay. 16?
Matt: No, he's bullshitting through his teeth.
Laura: Oh, okay.
Liam: Vex'ahlia?
Matt: Hey, he seemed honest about the passage but dishonest about the-- he's basically following her lead. "Uh-huh."
Laura: You're lying.
Matt: "Perhaps."
Laura: Tell us true, where is it?
Matt: "If I tell you, will you let me live?"
Travis: Ooh. Well.
Taliesin: I think that's very reasonable.
Laura: I think that's reasonable. We'll--
Matt: "I'm essentially--"
Taliesin: We will not kill you.
Laura: I think we can--
Travis: We can lock him up. And then kill him.
Liam: We'll leave you alive.
Laura: We'll leave you alive.
Liam: Yes.
Matt: "Don't just leave me alive. Give me a chance to walk from this building, on my own, arms intact."
Travis: No.
Matt: "And I'll give you the secret entrance to Emberhold itself, leading you straight within the throne room."
Orion: Well, that's a good thing.
Taliesin: So we have to leave you alive, and let you leave this building intact?
Matt: "Correct."
Travis: I go over and pick up his warhammer and say, you may-- maybe-- leave. But I get to keep this as a souvenir.
Taliesin: I actually think this is an appropriate moment to play with a bit of banditry. I say we take everything from him and he can make his way out all on his own.
Travis: I like that idea.
Laura: Yeah--
Marisha: Ooh, that's fun.
Laura: -- all his clothes, everything.
Travis: Butt naked.
Liam: And you can advise--
Marisha: Wait, wait, hang on.
Orion: As is his undergarments on for--
Travis: Why?
Orion: I don't care to see that.
Marisha: Why don't we take him with us? Just in casies--
Matt: At which point, a cold, clammy hand touches your shoulder and pulls you aside as--
Marisha: Ew.
Matt: -- a partially hooded Clarota steps forward and says, "I'll attempt to read his surface thoughts. If he tries to keep it from me, I'll know."
Travis: Smart, smart!
Matt: As he steps forward, he puts one hand in front of him and his eyes gleam with a sickly green hue. You can see the general tips his head back for a second and begins twitching an eye. Sweat begins to bead around his brow as Clarota takes another step forward, tensing his hand once more, his head beginning to bow forward with an intensity, a force of focus towards his direction. You can now see the general, "Let me live. Let me go and I'll tell you. This isn't necessary. I'm willing to give you the information." You can see a trickle of blood begin to pour out of one of his nostrils.
Travis: Yeah.
Orion: That's a mind flayer.
Laura: What do we do? I think we should stop him. Should we stop him?
Liam: Clarota.
Laura: Wait.
Liam: Does he know anything about K'varn?
Matt: "Let me see." And the mind flayer pushes once more into his brain. You see a twitch to his face as his head kind of lolls back and rolls for a second, resisting as best he can. But his will is currently being beaten by the defeat of the battle, the lack of his compatriot mind flayer, and the sheer intensity of Clarota now focused on vengeance and returning to his people. The blood beings to stream not just from his nostrils, but from his ears as well. As Clarota releases him for a second, he goes, "He has not seen K'varn, but knows a bit of his nature. I cannot read it, but we could press for more information."
Liam: I walk up--
Laura: I think we should just ask him.
Liam: -- next to Clarota, push the dwarf against the wall, and say, our friend here is not as patient as I am. We want to know about this K'varn, and we want you and all your men, all your little mates here, to throw your weapons into the chasm, you can go fuck off, but we want to know everything. And this is your last chance. Right now, right here. Talk.
Travis: And you have to get naked.
Laura: (whispers) And you have to get naked.
Liam: That's correct.
Orion: Will you stop with the naked? Grog--
Travis: What?
Taliesin: I'm with you on that.
Travis: Thank you.
Ashley: Yeah, me too.
Marisha: It's starting to become a thing now. I'm just saying.
Matt: "K'varn was responsible for forging the alliance. For centuries and generations, his people and mine killed and fought. It wasn't until K'varn came that we decided to work together for a common cause. Expansion, unification, dominion over this land and these mountains. Divided, we were weak, petty, greedy. With K'varn leading us, we have purpose, we have growth. We could take what we'd like, and I'm but one dwarf. If I fall over here, many more will take over where I fell."
Taliesin: Well, we can see that's obviously worked out really well for you. I think that I'm satisfied, are you satisfied?
Laura: What kind of creature is K'varn?
Liam: What is K'varn?
Matt: "I have not seen K'varn personally."
Laura: But you've heard rumors, though?
Matt: "What I know of K'varn-- a being of immense intelligence. A creature that needs not walk this earth, one that does not touch the land that it traverses. I know it sees all, it smiles from a toothy maw and laughs, laughs in the darkness. Protruding from its forehead, one nasty, gnarled black horn, terrible source of its dark power. That is what's beneath here."
Laura: Is he telling the truth?
Matt: Insight check.
Liam: Insight check for me as well.
Taliesin: Would I recognize this creature he's describing?
Matt: Go ahead and make a nature check. Or arcana, either one.
Marisha: Can I assist him?
Taliesin: Or arcana? 14.
Marisha: Can I do a nature check?
Matt: This'll be more for your own personal knowledge, probably not. But you can make one yourself.
Marisha: Well, that's what I'm saying.
Taliesin: 14.
Marisha: 'Cause you're doing arcana?
Taliesin: I did arcana.
Orion: A d20 roll.
Marisha: I'm doing nature. 29, nature.
Matt: All right, so. No natural creature you've ever heard has this type of essence to it, having a single black horn.
Liam: It's clearly a narwhal.
Matt: It is.
Liam: It's a sentient narwhal.
Matt: It's an awful, awful narwhal. Way to spoil the story, Liam.
Marisha: Demon narwhal.
Ashley: (singsong) Well, maybe we should go.
Matt: Gnashing teeth, black horn, very intelligent. That doesn't seem to be anything from nature itself. From your experience, there are different entities, but usually there are multiple horns. Singular, demonic beings that would have extreme intelligence, sharp teeth, horns, and you've had brief brushes in the past with demonic entities that seems to run in a similar vein, but nothing in particular is creeping into mind. It's going to be difficult for you to specifically come up with this, with what little information you currently have. Yeah.
Orion: Well, I'm satisfied.
Liam: I am, too.
Laura: Maybe we should let him go.
Liam: Why don't you strip?
Orion: I agree.
Travis: Do you wanna handcuff him?
Ashley: Take off your clothes!
Laura: Yeah, let's take his-- We take Grog's handcuffs out of his bag.
Matt: "Let me-- That was not the deal! You leave me, unspoiled, on my life, and I tell you the way into Emberhold."
Laura: Well, tell us!
Orion: Take the hammer. That's rough on him. Leave his armor on.
Laura: You haven't told us yet, have you?
Liam: We already told you your weapons are ours.
Taliesin: In fact, we'll be keeping your weapons, your armor, and I believe, your pride.
Marisha: Yes.
Laura: But your life is yours.
Taliesin: You may even outrun the dwarves we're about to set free.
Orion: Oh good, yeah.
Travis: Oh good, yeah.
Travis: Nice! Percy's fucked-up tonight, I like it.
Taliesin: I'm in a mood.
Matt: "Emberhold."
Liam: He tried to make a book out of someone's flesh once.
Laura: Wait, wait. He's telling us, shut up.
Liam: Yes, sorry.
Matt: "Emberhold is the fortress of our people, built to resist assault from all sides."
Liam: Shite.
Matt: "We've an army, hiding about the outskirts of it. Kind of like an army you might have in one of yours, if you think you have a chance. However, since I don't think that's what you carry, your best bet is on the left side of the fortress. There are two streams of molten rock that pour down the side. The smaller of those two streams covers a secret tunnel."
Liam: Insight check. Is he full of shit? I rolled-- Oh, nothing too hot at all. Never mind, forget it. Forget I said anything.
Matt: All right. He seems to be forthright and honest with his information. "However, that'll take you through the lava. That's up to you. It's meant to open from the inside. A trapdoor-like mechanism that spreads the actual flow. From the outside, well, good luck. I've done my side of the bargain. Let me free."
Liam: Stepping behind, I take my knife, and I cut his belt loose and let his pants fall, and I give him a little nudge.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: You're free to go. Not toward your stronghold, but towards the surface.
Matt: So his belt falls, changepurse, and everything. He is wearing full plate black armor--
Liam: Sure.
Matt: So his trousers do not plummet.
Liam: Aw, that's a shame.
Travis: Can't we have Scanlan turn him into a porpoise?
Matt: He picks up his warhammer.
Travis: I don't think so. No, that's mine. As a token to remember you by.
Matt: "Unspoiled was the deal."
Liam: Wasn't the deal.
Travis: No, it's great. You can really argue all you want to, or I'll just smash your fucking head in.
Liam: Wasn't the deal!
Taliesin: Alive was the deal.
Liam: We said you were alive, your weapons were ours. What, have you got shit in your ears?
Orion: I thought you meant you wouldn't get dirty, like you know, not spoiled. Which I was totally fine with.
Matt: Takes a couple of steps forward towards you, holding the warhammer out.
Liam: Your skull is unspoiled.
Matt: Suddenly, he turns completely invisible, vanishes from sight.
Laura: My perception's really high, can I try to find him?
Liam: Yeah, we can. Perception check.
Travis: You dicks.
Matt: You hear (footsteps running).
Liam: Perception check.
Laura: Wait, no!
Orion: He's gone.
Laura: Mother bitch.
Marisha: It's fine.
Liam: 18 for me.
Marisha: Just let him go, it's all he's got.
Ashley: We should throw something.
Travis: (high-pitched) I want the hammer!
Marisha: It's all he's got right now. He's naked, and now he's invisible running through a cavern.
Laura: He's not naked!
Matt: At this point--
Liam: I'm gonna attack him.
Matt: Before you have the opportunity--
Liam: Yeah?
Matt: -- he becomes visible again, about 20 feet out, gone down the stairs and towards the front door and he just--
Liam: I'm throwing a dagger at him.
Marisha: Oh look.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: Yeah.
Travis: And I'm throwing my ax at him with the chain of returning as well.
Liam: Oh good, that's great. 28 for me.
Orion: Oh shit.
Matt: All right, that hits.
Liam: Yeah, sure it does. Dick!
Matt: It's not a Sneak Attack, just damage.
Liam: Yeah, that's fine.
Matt: You chuck your ax at him.
Travis: 17.
Marisha: And I just yell, sorry!
Matt: Okay.
Travis: 17.
Liam: Ten for me.
Matt: All right, so go ahead and roll damage for both of you.
Liam: Ten.
Matt: He is there, standing in place with his arms locked like this.
Laura: Oh, Clarota.
Travis: 15.
Matt: 15 damage?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: Should've left the hammer.
Liam: Ten.
Matt: Ten damage, all right. There's now a significant amount of blood beginning to pool down his feet, as he's standing there. As he is frozen in place, Clarota just kinda steps up to the front of him, grabs his cheeks and pulls his head in towards him, as his tendrils slowly wrap around his head. You can see them meet at the back of his skull, and with this horrible crunching sound, you see his head shudder, as his limbs go limp.
Liam: (sings) Do do do do doo, I'm lovin' it. (all laugh)
Matt: A few moments of this horrible slurping sound--
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: -- and you hear this dull, sickening, hollow (suction) sound. The tentacles release, Clarota releases his grip from his head, and the captain falls onto his back, a giant bloodied hole in the center of his skull.
Ashley: He ate his brain?
Travis: I guess you should've left the hammer, shouldn't you?
Taliesin: Some people are terrible losers, just really terrible.
Orion: I'm going to loot the body.
Laura: Yeah, well. Yeah, we definitely do that.
Travis: I would like to pick up the hammer.
Marisha: This is a good lesson, to no one else that's watching.
Orion: Clarota, that was incredible. Well done!
Laura: Clarota--
Ashley: Clarota, I am a fan.
Marisha: No one is watching this valuable lesson.
Taliesin: Do not be an oathbreaker.
Marisha: To not be an oathbreaker.
Taliesin: Know when you've lost your clothes.
Laura: Was that actually, like, a meal for you?
Matt: As you're looking, you can see there's that kind of weird purplish crimson around his tendrils, as he kinda wipes it off with his hands, and goes, "It's enough to sustain me a while. I was getting hungry."
Laura: Well. Better him than us, I say.
Travis: Right. Me, I'm just an appetizer.
Orion: Yes, indeed.
Laura: Loot the body!
Matt: Yes, so you loot the body. You find amongst all the duergar bodies here, as you're quickly jumping around and grabbing, it's hard to count the exact amount, but you're looking at somewhere in the neighbourhood of about five to six hundred gold pieces. You'll have to check later.
Laura: Ooh!
Liam: Mm-hm.
Laura: I write that down.
Orion: He was a general.
Matt: A series of black iron weapons. None of them seem to, at a quick glance, have any sort of magical value. The blackened plate armor on the duergar itself does radiate a magical essence, as does the warhammer he was holding.
Laura: Is it just him wearing the black plate armor--
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: -- or any of the other bodies wearing it, too?
Matt: There are a few that are wearing black plate, but they're not equivalent enchanted.
Laura: We should take that and put it in the bag of holding, so we can sneak in if we want to.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: Tiberius, can you tell us anything about these things?
Laura: How many sets were there?
Matt: From what is in here, that would be 11 sets, total.
Orion: Yes, that hammer is amazing, obviously, because we saw it in action. I'd say Grog should have it.
Laura: 11 sets of armor!
Matt: Because there were also sets that were on the rack at the very front.
Laura: Nice!
Ashley: Hey.
Marisha: Is Grog about to get a new weapon?
Travis: 11 sets of armor, okay.
Orion: And I'll do an arcana check, right? An arcana check on the stuff?
Matt: An arcana check, yeah.
Taliesin: Laura, you got a grapple arrow, last I gave you, by the way.
Laura: I did?
Orion: 23.
Taliesin: Yeah, I got it-- you now have a trap arrow.
Laura: A grappler arrow?
Taliesin: Yeah, you fire it and it prones somebody.
Laura: Seriously? That's so cool, thank you!
Matt: There you go, sir.
Taliesin: I'm gonna Hawkeye you out at some point.
Laura: Oh my gosh.
Taliesin: I know.
Travis: Can you do a magical check on the-- Oh, he's got it.
Orion: I did.
Matt: So, as Tiberius is looking over the equipment, kind of poring through his arcane knowledge.
Orion: Oh, oh, ooh! I think Pike and Grog would benefit from these, most definitely. Here.
Laura: What is it? What was it?
Liam: There's not any kind of dark magic about the armor, is there?
Orion: I mean, it's dark in color.
Liam: Yes, that's fine.
Orion: But it's, you know, your standard arcana magic.
Ashley: Clarota, so when you eat their brains, do you also get their thoughts, maybe?
Travis: Ooh! The heavy plate armor has resistance to fire damage.
Ashley: Or it's just-- it's gone after that.
Travis: The warhammer--
Liam: Sh!
Matt: "There are residual memories, thoughts. It's delicious." And you can see, there's this almost rapturous look in his face you haven't seen before. For a moment, Clarota looks a little younger, a little stronger, a little more dangerous. And you're put off a little bit by it.
Travis: Clarota is Dracula.
Matt: But there's kind of this momentary kind of relishing in the moment and--
Marisha: Do we need to give you a moment alone? We can leave.
Matt: "He speaks the truth about the path into the Emberhold."
Laura: All right.
Liam: So, he spoke of some sort of trap door that's easy to open from within, but not from outside, correct?
Marisha: It was hidden by a lava flow.
Laura: Yes, two lava flows--
Matt: The smaller of the two.
Laura: -- the smaller of the two.
Liam: The smaller of the two.
Matt: On the left side.
Marisha: On the left side of the keep.
Laura: Yes. Can I ask a question?
Matt: Yes?
Travis: I'm raising my hand.
Laura: Are there a lot of other soldiers still in the camp, or did we--
Matt: Oh, there are plenty of soldiers still in the camp.
Liam: Yeah, we--
Laura: Ooh.
Matt: You stealthed into the barracks.
Laura: Oh shit! We should've kept him alive, you guys! Okay, okay, okay. Yes, Grog?
Liam: Well, he was about to walk out the door and cause mayhem.
Orion: That's true.
Marisha: That's true. He was gonna alert everybody.
Travis: Can I harvest any natural armor from the bulette? The kitty?
Laura: Ooh!
Matt: You can certainly try. There's plates that have been broken and cracked. You can try and start cleaving away at it.
Travis: All right, yes, I start butchering, or something, the bulette.
Matt: Okay, you start-- It's really tough hide. You know, 'cause you tried to cut through before and you managed to make a few marks. It takes you a few minutes. You manage to get, let's say, about three saucer-shaped pieces of armor out of it.
Travis: All right.
Matt: You could definitely get more, but then you start hearing bells going off.
Laura: Shit.
Travis: Shit.
Orion: What do I see? I'm still on the roof.
Laura: Okay, we should all-- Can we all--
Matt: You don't see anything yet. You just hear bells starting to go off in the city.
Laura: Okay, we should all put on black armor. Does that matter?
Liam: We should just get out of here. Keyleth, can you fucking eagle up and let's go.
Matt: You start hearing horns.
Laura: We need to free those dwarves.
Marisha: Eagle up?
Matt: Big horns. You start seeing torches being lit.
Laura: Stealth, stealth. And get out. Go stealth and get out.
Liam: We need to get out, now.
Orion: Oh guys, the jig is up!
Laura: I shoot my grapple thing and go up out of the ceiling.
Liam: Tiberius.
Orion: What?
Liam: Cast Fly on this fucker right here, we need to get out of here. We just need to get out the way we came in.
Marisha: I cast Pass Without A Trace. Everyone stand near me. And I'll turn into an eagle and I scoop up the gnomes.
Matt: Okay, what's the radius on Pass Without A Trace?
Liam: Like a thousand yards.
Marisha: Like a hundred yards.
Matt: Four miles, it's all I got.
Laura: But I take the dust of tracelessness out of the bag of holding and I sprinkle it around the room.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Can we grapple up out from the ceiling?
Matt: Well, the arrow that you have that he made, it's essentially an arrow that bursts into a tanglefoot bag. When it bursts, it grapples whoever's there, it's not like grappling an arrow.
Taliesin: Yeah, it's not like a string arrow, although I'll build that.
Laura: Oh, I thought it was like a grappling--
Taliesin: It's a trip arrow.
Laura: Oh, that's cool, okay.
Marisha: A 30-foot radius.
Taliesin: I'll make you a grappling-- I didn't follow that though. I'll make you a grappling arrow.
Laura: I have a grappling hook. Yeah, we should grapple out.
Matt: 30-foot radius, okay, so you could just--
Marisha: Just, hug me.
Matt: -- barely get Tiberius in there if you--
Marisha: Stay close.
Travis: You can go on my back.
Matt: On the platform, so yeah.
Ashley: Okay, I'm gonna jump on Grog's back.
Travis: Yeah, and I pick up Scanlan under my arm.
Laura: We have a regular grappling hook, we'll just get up out of the--
Taliesin: We have a flying carpet.
Ashley: And hold onto some straps.
Matt: All right, so Scanlan-- Both gnomes get grabbed by Keyleth as--
Orion: And we're all on the carpet?
Liam: The carpet's away, but this guy is flying?
Orion: Yes.
Liam: Flying Grog.
Travis: I am? I thought we were all-- Okay.
Liam: No, you can't go on the carpet. You're too heavy.
Laura: What are we doing?
Liam: We're going up. Straight up.
Laura: Up and out. Can we stealth, while we do it?
Matt: So, you guys, right now, as you're carrying the two gnomes, all of you except for Grog are on the carpet, correct?
Travis: Yep, I'm flying.
Matt: You're flying. Okay, so how many spells do you have left on that? One left? All right.
Laura: Where's Trinket?
Taliesin: Trinket's back on the other side.
Matt: Trinket's back on the other side. Trinket didn't come with you to the battle, because there was nobody to get Trinket across.
Laura: Oh, he's just on the other side by himself, all lonely?
Matt: Yeah, I know.
Liam: He's in goblin town.
Matt: Eh, you weren't here. (all laugh)
Matt: You weren't here to protect your bear.
Laura: That's so terrible.
Ashley: He's safe over there?
Matt: Hopefully.
Ashley: Oh Trinket!
Travis: He's been raging.
Matt: Everyone, make a stealth check. With a plus ten additional modifier thanks to Keyleth's spell.
Travis: Oh, awesome. That helped.
Orion: 20.
Ashley: Oh, 20!
Marisha: 18.
Travis: Natural? Oh.
Laura: Nice. Ooh, natural 20!
Taliesin: 19.
Travis: 19.
Ashley: 20.
Laura: Natural 20.
Travis: Natural 20.
Laura: 31 for me.
Liam: 29.
Matt: All right, so you all take off. As you do, you can see now, probably close to 30 or 40 duergar have now begun rushing towards the barracks in the center of that main open area where that wooden platform was, where Scanlan originally saw a mind flayer. As you rush up, you hear (speaks Undercommon). You hear it as Undercommon, screaming, "There! Above, look!"
Laura: Oh, they saw us.
Ashley: Maybe you should scream, like, no, they went the other way!
Liam: Just keep going up, up, up.
Matt: A stream of javelins comes firing up in your direction.
Laura: How did they see us? I thought we were stealthed.
Orion: I see where it's coming and I shoot a Fireball.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: That's good, that's good.
Marisha: Wait, what are you doing?
Matt: Okay, so there's a volley of javelins and a Fireball streaking past. You'll be able to get ten of them in that Fireball blast, go ahead and roll for damage on that. However, for those that rolled less than 20 on stealth, each of you are getting three javelins each to you. So that's you two, and Grog. What'd you roll again?
Marisha: Less than 20.
Orion: 22.
Matt: Okay, yeah. So you three. So three javelins against you, miss you entirely. Percy. Actually, one more against you, Keyleth. That one does hit. You take 14 points of piercing damage as the javelin just gleans off the side of your giant eagle torso.
Marisha: (eagle noises)
Matt: Percy, that's a 21, an 18, and a 20. So you take three javelins. 24 points of piercing damage.
Taliesin: 24 points?
Matt: Yeah, 24 points total, as three javelins-- Two strike you off the shoulders and one actually embeds itself partway into your waist and you have to pull it out, and probably dug a good six, seven inches in.
Ashley: What are you at?
Taliesin: I'm at 15.
Ashley: 15?
Orion: By the way, 41 points of fire damage.
Taliesin: I was already really low.
Travis: Take me instead.
Laura: We haven't healed him yet.
Ashley: Wait, we healed the other game. Even with that?
Taliesin: Oh, did I fully heal?
Matt: All right, the three that are going towards Grog--
Travis: Yeah, come on.
Matt: That-- Natural 20. A 17, what's your AC?
Ashley: No, it was like 24.
Travis: 18.
Ashley: 24 points.
Matt: That one misses, and the last one-- Yeah, two natural 20s.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Ashley: That was 24.
Matt: Not even joking.
Liam: Double crits, oh.
Matt: All right, so--
Laura: Two crits against you?
Liam: Good thing you got a thousand hit points.
Travis: (high-pitched) Oh no.
Liam: That's the point of a meat tank.
Matt: You take a total of 36 points of piercing damage, Grog.
Ashley: And he still has more hitpoints than we do.
Matt: Yeah, probably.
Marisha: Ouchies.
Matt: Oh, barbarian.
Liam: If Scanlan were here, he'd moon and blind all.
Laura: He is here, technically.
Matt: He is here, Scanlan's holding on tight as--
Liam: He's here, he's watching.
Taliesin: Scanlan's peeing, peeing down.
Matt: However, as the javelins strike all you guys, moments later there's a gargantuan explosion, and there's a flash of reddish light from below. A giant fiery blooming explosion bursts into the center of that area. You can see duergar thrown left and right. You manage to take out about 12 of them in that one blast.
Orion: Yes!
Laura: Nice!
Liam: Yeah, home slice.
Matt: You guys continue, cresting over the top. You can now see more and more are starting to gather, the bells are going off, the horns are blowing hard. You can see a bunch of them are now running over to what looks like some of this siege equipment they had constructed--
Marisha: Oh.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: Which includes a few large ballistae.
Liam: I think we should friggin' dive bomb towards the far tunnel past this war camp.
Laura: No, but Trinket!
Liam: Is fine, he's hiding out. They don't know he's here.
Travis: Leave him.
Taliesin: He'll be fine.
Orion: I'm not concerned with the bear right now!
Liam: We're going to dive. Yes, dive bomb, dive bomb!
Taliesin: The bear can take care of himself.
Liam: I take hold of the front of the carpet and steer it up and over, along the roof and then down towards the tunnel. I'm steering the carpet.
Matt: Okay. You guys are coming down. You basically shot up, curved around--
Laura: We shouldn't go down.
Matt: And you're going backwards towards the barracks. As you do, another volley of--
Laura: We got to free those dwarves, y'all.
Matt: Another volley comes to the guys who were under-stealthed.
Liam: We don't have to. That seems complicated.
Orion: Who's not stealthed?
Matt: However, there is one attack less each because of the duergar that you had taken out. So, against Keyleth, one hits. You take 12 points of piercing damage.
Marisha: I am no longer an eagle.
Taliesin: Oh my God.
Travis: Oh shit, really?
Matt: All right, a two and a one versus Percy.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: Are you paying attention?
Orion: Wait, what?
Travis: She's not an eagle anymore.
Matt: All right, so.
Laura: Keyleth isn't a--
Marisha: I hit zero hit points as an eagle.
Ashley: Wait, what are you again?
Laura: What happened?
Liam: She's not an eagle and she's falling with the gnomes.
Matt: Keyleth's form shifts back into that of Keyleth. You guys are about 80 feet up.
Marisha: Help!
Laura: Okay, okay!
Ashley: Can I--
Matt: At which point, both Scanlan and Pike go into a free fall along with Keyleth.
Ashley: Wait, can I--
Laura: No, no, she was on Grog, she was--
Orion: Are we under them? Are we under them?
Liam: I don't know, are we?
Ashley: No, I was on her.
Matt: No, you guys are about parallel. You guys were moving together.
Liam: Parallel?
Orion: Go under them!
Laura: Yeah, we dive under them.
Liam: Dive, dive, dive, dive!
Orion: I cast Glacial Blast and I create a bridge that scoops them up, right under them. As we dive right under them.
Liam: Party trick.
Matt: Okay, you guys are out in the middle of the open cavern. There's no place to connect the bridge, so you're essentially creating a giant ice--
Liam: Chunk.
Laura: Chunk.
Matt: Chunk right beneath them. Which is also now in freefall.
Orion: Huh? No!
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Even wizards make mistakes.
Orion: Damn it!
Matt: So as you guys try and swoop underneath as they're plummeting-- You're riding this, go ahead and make an acrobatics check.
Liam: Okay.
Orion: No, I didn't think of that.
Marisha: I don't know what to do.
Laura: Can we try to catch-- can we try to-- what do I have?
Ashley: Wait, can I--
Travis: Are we over the war camp, or are we over the--
Liam: 25.
Laura: Over the war camp.
Matt: All right, so you swoop underneath. A sudden motion, as you're trying to cast. Go ahead and roll a concentration check on this.
Marisha: Oh, come on, Tiberius.
Taliesin: Oh boy.
Marisha: Oh, save my life, again, Tiberius.
Orion: Oh no.
Laura: Can I try to--
Marisha: Oh shit.
Liam: I let go of the front of the carpet, I stick a--
Ashley: Wait, wait, wait, wait, can I cast War God's Blessing to give him a plus ten?
Matt: Unfortunately, you're falling.
Ashley: Fuck.
Matt: You're like (worried noise), you're just plummeting through the air like a rock because you're in full plate armor.
Laura: Can I use the rope of endless twine and try to lasso one of them? 'Cause I'm really a good shot.
Ashley: How far are we falling?
Matt: You have to pull it out of the bag of holding and then turn into a lasso, that's gonna take you a full minute, so you don't have time.
Liam: I have a rope. I let go of the front of the carpet, I put one end of the rope in my sister's hand, and I jump off towards Pike, holding it around in one hand as I go--
Laura: Oh god.
Taliesin: I grapple onto her to hold her down.
Ashley: No! No, no, no, I have so much armor.
Laura: Okay, then you should--
Matt: All right guys, so here's what happens. In the time this has transpired, you've rushed underneath with the magic carpet, all of you barely managed to hold on, as both Pike and Scanlan and Keyleth all slam into the top of the--
Laura: Oh okay, except you're dangling off of it now by a rope.
Matt: You lost your concentration, so Glacial Blast didn't go off, thankfully. That would've been really bad.
Marisha: Wait, wait, we slam into the top of what?
Taliesin: Us.
Matt: You guys slam onto the top of the rest of the group, in there.
Laura: That's too many people on the carpet.
Matt: Because you lost your concentration, your flight spell also dissipates. Grog is now plummeting.
Laura: Oh no!
Travis: Yay!
All: (worried noises)
Laura: We're gonna die!
Matt: The carpet now has too much weight and is currently giving out.
Liam: #savecriticalrole.
Orion: Get me close to him. I cast Featherfall on you.
Matt: It's slowing your fall, but you guys are-- you're coming down at a very, very fast pace at an angle over the barracks towards the back end of the war camp.
Laura: Oh shit.
Marisha: Can I cast Wind Wall right underneath of the carpet to kind of like airbend us up?
Matt: You can attempt to. Grog--
Travis: I begin to fart to slow the fall.
Orion: Who needs Featherfall? I can do it in a bunch!
Marisha: Ahh!
Matt: Everybody, at this point--
Liam: But wait, Dungeon Master?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Re-explain what's happening. So the carpet is falling, not as fast as it would, but--
Matt: Essentially, you guys are flying beside each other, the three that were falling, you guys swooped underneath and caught them, however it's too much weight to bear, the carpet's now--
Liam: How high are we at this second?
Matt: At this second, you're about 60-70 feet up.
Marisha: Ohh.
Liam: And the closest building, the highest building under us is how tall?
Marisha: Oh, Jesus.
Matt: It's about 15 feet tall.
Liam: Ohh.
Matt: Grog, however, goes into a full plummet. You guys have just caught the rest of them, you've all caught them, you're crashing down.
Marisha: And did the Wind Wall thing work?
Matt: Go ahead and roll a concentration.
Laura: Everybody jump up in the air!
Matt: Your constitution modifier.
Marisha: Fucking shit. Not good. Seven.
Matt: The spell fizzles.
Liam: Unpause. How far are we from the tunnel that we were talking about?
Matt: From what you can see here, you're probably about 50 to 60 feet.
Laura: We're right over the camp, aren't we?
Matt: You're towards the back of it, thankfully, the barracks are towards the back of it, so maybe about 50 to 60 feet from the full tunnel.
Orion: Before where the drop is, and that's where that bottom tunnel is down there?
Matt: Yep.
Orion: Okay.
Matt: You guys go crashing at an angle.
Taliesin: I'm going to brace to jump. I'm bracing to roll.
Laura: Yeah, we're all like bracing.
Marisha: Three-point landing!
Liam: I'm grabbing for Pike and going like this.
Laura: I have Scanlan!
Marisha: What's Grog doing?
Orion: Where's Grog at?
Laura: He's falling.
Liam: Grog's gone. Grog's down.
Matt: Grog is completely separate from you. He was flying, and lost concentration of his spell. Grog's like a stone.
Laura: No, Grog!
Orion: Can I leap towards him?
Taliesin: Off what?
Marisha: And do what?
Matt: Off of the carpet--
Orion: Off of the carpet! Yes!
Liam: Do what?
Laura: You leap off of the carpet?
Matt: Go ahead and make an acrobatics check. With a disadvantage, because you are jumping off of a currently flimsy flying carpet to try and catch up to him.
Laura: Oh no.
Orion: Right now, while I'm doing this, I'm going to cast Featherfall on myself.
Travis: Wait, before, you gotta get to me first, because it will slow you too much.
Orion: Oh. It would, wouldn't it? I thought it was only when going down.
Travis: Gotta get to me first, motherfucker.
Matt: Go for it.
Orion: Whoa. Okay.
Matt: So what's your acrobatics check? The lower of the two.
Liam: You fall a lot.
Travis: Yeah. Big things go down.
Orion: 15 and 13.
Matt: Okay. You manage to fumble out of the carpet, however, you are now just end-over-end falling now off of the side of the carpet on your own.
Liam: This is tense.
Laura: This is tense.
Matt: You're having a hard time even seeing Grog now. The world's just spinning and spinning and spinning.
Laura: Oh God.
Travis: It's like Gravity.
Matt: You can attempt--
Orion: Now I'm going to cast Featherfall.
Matt: Go ahead, cast and roll concentration check. What did you roll?
Marisha: He rolled a 19. Which is good.
Matt: Okay. Featherfall gets to you just in time. Your descent slows. In that time, Grog has impacted.
Marisha: Fuck!
Laura: Oh no, Grog!
Liam: We're gonna hit, we're gonna hit. I'm shielding the healer.
Laura: I'm shielding Scanlan.
Matt: So you all brace for impact. The actual carpet's careening out of control. You can see there's just barely the top of a building you might be able to try and skim.
Laura: Can we jump onto the top of the building?
Matt: This is going to be up to the one who's been steering this whole time. Go ahead and make an intelligence check.
Laura: Intelligence!
Liam: Intelligence?
Matt: Yes.
Ashley: Can I assist?
Matt: No.
Travis: Thank God it's not me.
Marisha: Can we do nothing and--
Liam: Good, good, good, good. 24.
Matt: 24?
Liam: Yeah, so I'm pretty smart.
Matt: You just managed to skim the edge, which lessens your impact slightly, however, it does send you all into a full end-over-end topple.
Liam: Still holding a gnome!
Matt: Everyone. Everyone. Make an acrobatics check.
Laura: Oh, god. Which one to roll, which one to roll.
Marisha: Oh, no. What's going on with Grog?
Liam: I guess that's what we'll find out afterwards.
Matt: Grog's impacted. He was falling faster than you guys were, he's six hundred pounds going into straight freefall. You guys had a little bit of a fall break.
Marisha: Ah, this is going terribly! I'm failing!
Orion: Do I have to do one also?
Matt: Everyone. Oh, except for you, because you're floating.
Liam: Do the halflings-- Shit! Do the gnomes get an advantage since the half-elves are protecting them?
Laura: Depending on how we roll?
Matt: It's based on how you guys roll, because you're the ones who are holding onto them.
Liam: Oh, okay.
Laura: Welp, Scanlan. I'm sorry to let you know--
Taliesin: No.
Liam: Oh no!
Matt: So you got Pike?
Liam: Yeah, I got Pike.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Liam: 18.
Matt: Natural one.
Ashley: 13.
Travis: 18.
Taliesin: 23.
Marisha: Four.
Matt: Okay, so half-damage for you.
Laura: But I have a plus nine acrobatics! Plus nine acrobatics!
Liam: Doesn't matter.
Laura: Doesn't matter on a natural crit fail.
Taliesin: Still gonna knock me out.
Matt: Roll some fall damage here.
Laura: I'm sorry, Scanlan!
Liam: It's all right, I got the healer, I got the healer.
Marisha: It's not gonna be good.
Travis: You're gonna be like an ACME cartoon and just leave a (pff)
Laura: (pff)
Liam: (pff)
Matt: 18 points of damage.
Taliesin: I'm out.
Marisha: You're out again?
Laura: You're unconscious again?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: He didn't have a lot of hit points left.
Laura: Oh no, we're all dead!
Marisha: This the second time Grog's almost fallen to his death.
Matt: 18 points of damage to you. The rest of you all take 36 points of fall damage, except for Grog.
Liam: Everybody, everybody?
Laura: Everybody? As a group, like we all failed as a group?
Matt: Well, no, no, sorry. You succeeded, you rolled a--
Liam: 18.
Matt: 18, so you would also take half-damage, so you would take 18 as well.
Ashley: I take--
Matt: You take half that as well, thanks to his roll as well.
Travis: I rolled an 18.
Ashley: Everybody in this club getting hit points.
Matt: Right, you were in full plummet, you can reduce the damage slightly.
Travis: Well, I was very graceful on the way down.
Matt: Yeah, you take 45 points of damage from the impact, Grog.
Marisha: 45?
Matt: 45 points of damage.
Marisha: Oh.
Liam: It was halved, so eight.
Matt: And leave a small crater from the impact.
Travis: Thank you.
Marisha: You know what, that could've been worse.
Laura: And I take 35?
Matt: You and Scanlan both take 36, which puts Scanlan into a negative as well, because he wasn't-- he was not at--
Laura: No, no! He was fully healed.
Travis: Nope.
Matt: No, he wasn't.
Laura: (Softly) Fuck.
Liam: No, sorry, no.
Matt: So, you all tumble end over end, come to rest.
Marisha: We just crash-landed in a war camp.
Matt: Yeah. On the far end of it, thankfully.
Marisha: Oh boy.
Matt: You guys can hear the bells and the horns going in the distance. It looks like all the rest of the folks that were stationed here moved towards the center. You managed to arc over them, but they're going to be here shortly.
Travis: Are we near their big war machines?
Matt: No, the ballistae are on the opposite--
Orion: So we can see the ledge and that cavern where we were, where we found the--
Matt: Well, the ledge is back in the other direction. You guys are going towards the tunnel on the opposite side.
Liam: Vax is pulling up Pike onto her feet and dragging her towards Scanlan, 'cause I know how fucked up he was from the last battle.
Ashley: Where's Scanlan? How close--
Matt: Okay, you guys-- and you, you're kinda getting up on your knees, coughing--
Marisha: How, how--
Ashley: Percy's out, let's go--
Liam: But so is Scanlan.
Matt: Percy's just face-down in the ground, scrapes across the side of his face.
Ashley: Scanlan's out, too? Fuck.
Liam: Scanlan's out, too, right?
Matt: Scanlan's also out.
Travis: How about-- I'll give him a level three potion and you go heal Scanlan.
Laura: No, you, here, you take care of him, I'm right next to Scanlan,
Matt: You guys are roughly about ten feet from each other from the impact, just, you were scattered, and then you kind of regrouped.
Marisha: Okay. Can we see people running towards us?
Matt: Not yet, but you assume it's only a short period of time.
Orion: Yeah, yeah, we have some time left--
Marisha: We don't, I don't know.
Matt: Grog, what you at?
Travis: 39.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: She's doing a Mass Healing--
Ashley: A Mass Healing Word.
Matt: Okay. You barely get yourself out of the crater. That's gonna suck tomorrow!
Marisha: Mass Healing Word?
Liam: You take Scanlan, I'll take Percy.
Laura: Okay! I'm gonna--
Liam: Healing potions out.
Matt: As this is happening, Percy, go ahead and make a death saving throw.
Laura: Oh!
Travis: A death saving throw?
Liam: Sorry, here's three--
Taliesin: Is that-- Is that just--
Matt: What did you roll?
Taliesin: A nine.
Matt: That's a fail, so mark off one fail on your death saving throw on your sheet.
Laura: (gasps)
Ashley: No no no no!
Laura: No no no no!
Travis: Oh shit!
Liam: Sorry I'm late, Percy.
Matt: Scanlan does make his.
Liam: He's all right, he's all right, he's all right. I've got a healing potion and I'm pouring it--
Ashley: But I'm doing--
Liam: I'm pinching Percy's nose and pouring it in his mouth.
Laura: And I'm pouring some down Scanlan's throat.
Matt: Okay, all right. So both you guys pour healing potions. That is-- those are the normal ones? The common? The regular healing?
Liam: I think so.
Laura: Yeah?
Matt: 2d4 + 2. Go ahead and roll that.
Liam: (whispers) 2d4 + 2.
Travis: I'm taking a level two potion, myself. Just--
Taliesin: 2d4 + 2?
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Liam: Eight. Eight for Percy.
Matt: That's four--
Taliesin: Oh! So I'm at plus eight now?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Yes.
Liam: You're up.
Matt: Scanlan also comes to consciousness.
Laura: 2d4? That's pathetic.
Matt: That's the cheapest one you've got. 2d4 + 2.
Liam: Let's get the fuck out of here and they can--
Laura: Okay, fine.
Taliesin: She was gonna do a Mass Healing--
Marisha: Yeah, what's your Mass Healing Word?
Orion: I'd like to know-- on the way down, I was doing a little chant and I was expending my sorcery points to do Flexible Casting, so I regain a slot spell on my third-level spells.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: As we're getting up, can I see-- Is the camp nearby, where the prisoners are? Is that anywhere near us?
Matt: No, that's towards the center of the camp.
Liam: We gotta keep moving. I pull out another corked potion and slap it into Percy's hand.
Marisha: Yeah, we gotta go.
Liam: And then grab him by the wrist and just start walking.
Taliesin: I'm up.
Marisha: Here, wait. Save the potion, I cast Healing Word on Percy.
Ashley: Hold on, I'm gonna do a Mass Cure Wounds.
Laura: Mass Cure Wounds?
Matt: All right. So as you guys are running towards the back, towards the main tunnel, which you can now see, it's roughly a 40- by 30-foot tunnel. You go running through the buildings. You see a few duergar kinda poke out from the buildings.
Laura: Can we stealth while we're doing this, or are we too, like, injured?
Orion: No, this is--
Matt: No, you guys are just bolting at this point. You're not even concentrating on stealth right now.
Laura: Bolting it, right.
Taliesin: This is, this is--
Matt: Plus, with the group-- Basically, a few of you would stealth and the rest of you would be left in the dust, so you're just kind of all pushing for speed at this point.
Laura: Okay.
Orion: Yeah.
Matt: You all manage to push towards the back of the entire war camp, into this tunnel. Hearing behind you the distant echoing shouts of approximately 30-plus duergar heading in your direction. You hear a few other ballista bolts hitting the wall above you of the stone.
Orion: Are we all in the tunnel?
Matt: You guys have now pushed into the tunnel.
Orion: I wait for everybody to pass and I cast all my Grand Columns.
Matt: Okay, how many can you--
Orion: Three.
Matt: Three per spell? And how many spell levels do you have currently?
Orion: That's it, that's what I did the SP for, so that I could cast this right now.
Matt: Right. So you have one.
Orion: I have none in my column.
Matt: Right. How many spell castings did you have left? Two?
Orion: No, I had one.
Ashley: (whispers) 24.
Taliesin: 24?
Laura: 24 mass?
Ashley: 24 mass cure.
Matt: One left. So you get three columns. It's 30 feet wide.
Laura: Oh, she just healed everybody for 24 points.
Orion: (whispers) Oh, it's 30--
Marisha: Oh, dope.
Matt: Okay, everyone heals for 24 points. Add that up.
Liam: Oh, I feel good!
Laura: I feel pretty good now.
Travis: Dude! Kick that shit.
Laura: What what!
Orion: It's not enough, is it?
Matt: No.
Ashley: (sighs) Okay. Including myself?
Liam: Yes.
Travis: Yes.
Orion: Are the caves stone? Like the cave--
Matt: The walls are stone.
Travis: Ugh, that's huge.
Laura: Oh my god, it's major.
Orion: Can I like, do it from the side? Can I attempt to?
Matt: Pillars go straight up, unfortunately. It's the nature of the spell's creation.
Marisha: Well wait, I can do what you're trying to do.
Orion: Oh! Oh yeah!
Marisha: I do Wall Of Stone.
Orion: There you go!
Matt: Okay! So as you're trying to figure this out, Keyleth steps over--
Marisha: I'm like, oh, is this, oh--
Orion: It's-- Oh!
Marisha: Sorry! You should've just-- I would've-- they're not very--
Orion: They're columns.
Marisha: Yeah.
Orion: You're good. The wall's good.
Marisha: Right.
Orion: Good.
Laura: Are we running? I don't know what you guys are doing. What's happening right now?
Matt: As you guys are doing this and rushing in, you're realizing there's one member of your party that you haven't had a lot of time with--
Laura: Clarota!
Liam: Clarota!
Matt: -- that you didn't think about until this moment.
Liam: Clarota, yeah. Clarota.
Marisha: Oh, yeah!
Matt: You now see, kind of, like, floating, via levitation ability, about 30 feet away, slowly descending towards you, as you're putting up the wall of stone--
Orion: Oh! Wait! Hold on!
Travis: Come on Squidworth, over here!
Matt: Two bolts go firing towards him; one whooshes overhead, a second one--
Marisha: Clarota!
Matt: (impact sound) -- through his back, out the front of his chest--
Laura: No!
Matt: -- off the shoulder.
Orion: Come on! We need to save him!
Liam: He's gotta have more than ten hit points.
Orion: Recess the wall, recess the wall!
Marisha: Wait!
Matt: You can see now-- and the bolt itself is about 4 feet long, made of this long, jagged, pointed arrow tip.
Laura: Oh, man.
Matt: Clarota begins to falter, and begins to hover towards you, almost, like, trying to swim through the air in your direction.
Laura: Can we run out, try to grab him?
Ashley: Can I grab him, hang on to him?
Orion: Oh!
Matt: He's about 20 feet from you now, you can try and reach out and put your hands towards him--
Orion: Boom!
Laura: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Travis: I take off and run to him.
Orion: Now I cast Glacial Blast, right under him, like a slide, right towards us-- and catch him.
Matt: Okay. So as you guys are running towards him, instead, this giant crystalline form of ice just--
Laura: Oh, all right.
Matt: -- crackles up into what looks like some sort of strange, winter festival slide that would be made for children in the center of town. Clarota--
Ashley: Awesome.
Matt: -- as it descends, two more bolts come towards him. Both (whoosh, whoosh). At this distance, in the darkness of the cavern, it's kind of hard for them to get a bead on him. Both just pass overhead. With eyes kind of lolling, Clarota comes down and hits the edge of the slide, and almost loses consciousness at that moment, sliding through the ice. You guys manage to capture, grappling his arms, lift him to his feet--
Marisha: And now, Wall Of Stone.
Matt: You all make it into the tunnel, Keyleth turns around, raising her hands, the actual blackened stonework of this tunnel shakes for a second, and then a giant, thick wall of natural rock closes off the entire tunnel behind you.
Orion: Nice.
Laura: I love you, Trinket!
Liam: Completely seals it?
Marisha: Oh, gosh.
Matt: Completely seals it. You guys are now in complete darkness.
Orion: Ooh! Light!
Matt: As the light hits, you can hear, just on the other side of the surface of the stone wall, javelins, other things are being shot at the stone wall--
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: -- but it's keeping it at bay. You guys are now at the wall, and behind you the tunnel continues into a passage you haven't seen yet.
Travis: Whatever we do from here, I sprinkle dust of tracelessness behind us the whole time like a fucking flower girl. (all laugh)
Liam: They could have magic in their possession, they could use magic as well, so let's move.
Laura: Yeah, they could get through it.
Orion: Yes.
Taliesin: Will a healing potion work on Clarota?
Ashley: So, Clarota's with us?
Laura: Clarota's with us.
Ashley: Can I go over to Clarota and try to heal him?
Laura: Don't get too close, he might just suck in your brain.
Matt: You can certainly try.
Taliesin: I've got a potion, so--
Marisha: Grog?
Ashley: Should we give him a potion?
Travis: What?
Marisha: Do you have any ale?
Travis: Yeah, I do have a cask, actually.
Marisha: I think I need a drink.
Travis: Right. I'll--
Taliesin: What's a level two potion do?
Travis: There you are.
Matt: A level two potion would be 4d4 + 4.
Travis: I go and hold his shoulders--
Marisha: I really need a drink.
Travis: -- whilst she tries to heal him, just in case he gets all sucky on her.
Ashley: I think he's gonna give him a potion.
Travis: Oh.
Taliesin: I am.
Travis: That's much less--
Laura: No!
Liam: Felicia Day, that's not nice!
Travis: Hey!
Taliesin: 17 points of healing.
Matt: Okay. 17 points to Clarota.
Ashley: What'd she say?
Matt: Which-- administering a potion to a mind flayer is an experience that very few in this world have probably ever, or ever will, experience. As you kind of reach over, grab his shoulder, you look for where to put it, and the tendrils kind of, like, flail about, but begin to-- they, as he notices what you're doing, kind of relax and open up, and you can now see the circular, lamprey-like, toothy maw of the mind flayer. It's a very disturbing, disgusting image, with this jagged, yellow teeth, in a circular form. You pop the cork, and just pour it in. As you do, you see the wounds across Clarota's form begin to seal. The arrow is still stuck in its torso.
Laura: Can we try to pull it out?
Ashley: Try to break off the part--
Matt: You can certainly try.
Travis: I got it (snap)!
Matt: Go ahead and make a-- this would be a medicine check.
Laura: Do you wanna do that, Grog?
Travis: I'll do the breaking part.
Matt: It's iron. It's solid iron.
Ashley: My medicine's a four.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: Breaking it off is not gonna work.
Ashley: What's your medicine?
Travis: So? Zero.
Matt: You have to pull it from the wound.
Ashley: Okay. I'll try.
Taliesin: Who has a medicine?
Laura: So what are you--
Ashley: A four.
Laura: Okay. All right.
Ashley: What does everybody have?
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: Do it!
Ashley: Roll this guy? Okay. Nine?
Matt: A nine.
Laura: (laughs) Oh no.
Ashley: Sorry!
Matt: So. You take your moment, you view up where the puncture wound is, with a little bit of Grog's help, you both grab the edge, and you're like, 'On three. One, two, three, pull!' You pull through the wound, not against the arrow--
Travis: Right.
Matt: -- 'cause that would just tear everything out in the process, but nevertheless, in doing so, Clarota does take an additional eight points of damage.
Ashley: I'm sorry.
Matt: But, the wound is now no longer a giant--
Laura: Able to be healed.
Matt: -- it's now able to be healed completely, so. Clarota takes a moment and kind of grasps the wound.
Laura: I hand him a little healing potion, and say, sorry.
Matt: Shatters the glass. At which point, you now hear (impact sounds) against the stone wall.
Laura: We should move!
Ashley: Time to go!
Liam: Let's keep moving, yes? Yes.
Travis: I pick up Clarota. Yeah, why not.
Laura: Yeah, all right.
Travis: I pick up Clarota and we start running balls.
Laura: Is he good enough to walk or is he--
Matt: He's good enough to walk with you guys. Well--
Travis: Well, how about I put one arm under his face and help him.
Matt: So you're helping him.
Liam: No, that's-- hold on a second. I take out the flying carpet--
Laura: We still have the flying carpet?
Liam: Sure we do!
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: Here, sit on this, Clarota.
Laura: If you need it.
Liam: That'd be easier, yes.
Matt: Clarota gets up on the carpet and-- "Thank you." The carpet kind of drifts alongside you guys. You guys are pushing backwards towards the cavern. The tunnel kind of begins to pinch a little bit. It gets to about a 15-foot width before it opens up again. You're about a hundred feet back. You can now see it opening into a-- what looks like an extension of the war camp. (all groan)
Laura: We should've gone down! What were we thinking?
Matt: Go ahead and make a perception check.
Liam: That guy was lying.
Laura: Well, he said go down. We didn't go down.
Liam: 21 for me.
Laura: 13 for me. I like how my passive perception is way higher than any rolls that I ever do.
Matt: I do keep that-- I keep tabs on that.
Taliesin: 22.
Marisha: Are we all doing perception rolls?
Matt: For the most part, we've got a few rolls, and it worked fine. Looking inside though, this camp looks like it's been abandoned.
Laura: Oh, good!
Matt: It looks like it was built, and then the expansion into the war camp you just escaped from seemed to be the next step. Like it's slowly advancing and this section of it has been in disuse. As you push in towards the center of the camp you can see there's older campfires, lots of the tents have like partially collapsed. Dust has gathered.
Liam: I'm keeping my eyes peeled for useful shit.
Matt: Okay. Looking around as well, you see all the equipment. Any pieces that would be of interest have either been taken-- either destroyed and are broken or have probably been moved into the war camp. You glance through a couple of the tents. Looking about, it's definitely been abandoned. It no longer serves a purpose and anything of use has been stripped and taken. This cavern is maybe about 60 feet up or so. It's a little domed section, and you can now see there are two exit tunnels to this section. One that is kind of straight ahead, a little bit to the left. And one that veers off to the direct left of you. So if you're looking straight from the direction you came, there is one right ahead of you, a little bit to the left and one that goes quickly to the left.
Laura: Should we take the left one?
Travis: Which one's the left one?
Marisha: He mentioned the left.
Laura: Yeah, so maybe we should stay left.
Matt: Yeah, do that.
Liam: Clarota, do you know anything about these passages?
Laura: Do you remember anything?
Marisha: Wait, why did he say that? Why did you say that?
Matt: 'Cause they're both kind of left. It's a joke. Clarota takes a moment and kind of looks at you, kind of-- his breath. "I've not been this far up these tunnels. It's too dangerous this close to the war camp. I would've been killed in a second."
Laura: What about the general's memory? Anything there?
Matt: He kind of closes his eyes for a second. "One of these leads below, one of them leads to the surface. I can't recall which."
Laura: Can we go up and--
Travis: Let's split up!
Laura: No, can we go next to the one on the far left and see if I sense any like wind coming down, is there--
Matt: Going to the one on the far left, as you're stepping you hear a (muffled impact noise)--
Laura: Oh, well, good.
Matt: -- against the distant stone wall that you put up.
Travis: I think we get to pick one here.
Marisha: Are there any--
Ashley: He did say go left.
Matt: As you head to the tunnel, you don't sense any sort of temperature change, but it does seem to steady off into a decline that curves to the left.
Laura: We should do that.
Taliesin: Sounds good.
Marisha: Do you mean, are there like-- is there any wildlife, any bats, any type of animals, anything like that?
Matt: We shall say, a general sense of this area, you look and you can see, in this area, unlike the previous sections, there are small clusters of bats on the ceiling.
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to--
Matt: As apparently they have an exit of some kind to the surface.
Marisha: I'm going to go ahead and cast Beast Sense on one of the bats.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: And I'm going to channel myself through the bat and I'm going to make him fly down the far left tunnel.
Matt: Okay. So as you guys are walking over there, one of the bats--
Ashley: Good call.
Matt: -- heads down into the tunnel, continues into the darkness.
Marisha: Can I just see--
Matt: From the echolocation, which is a very strange sensation, you haven't really done this before for a bat and it's a very weird experience.
Marisha: Wow, guys, this is really trippy.
Taliesin: We just hear (bat sounds).
Matt: It continues about a steady 40-degree decline that goes further and further down.
Laura: Keep going down. Down, down, down.
Matt: Eventually, you get to a point where the bat is out of your sphere of influence and you lose your connection to the bat.
Laura: Keep going down?
Marisha: Well, I didn't really see much, but definitely there is a pretty steep incline. We could try it again and go down the other one.
Liam: This is a coin flip.
Laura: I think we keep going down. Just stick with it.
Orion: Hold on! Incline means up.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: No, it's a decline.
Marisha: Decline.
Orion: Decline means down.
Laura: Well, then let's go with the decline. Yes?
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: Let's do it!
Taliesin: We go. With haste.
Laura: Yes.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: With haste!
Laura: With stealth! With Dust of Tracelessness behind us.
Travis: Hey, flower girl!
Laura: Flower girl!
Orion: Actually, there's two tunnels, right?
Matt: There are two tunnels, yes.
Orion: And one's smaller than the other?
Matt: Correct.
Orion: Hm.
Matt: Yes?
Taliesin: There's no right answer here. It's just--
Orion: I know.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Orion: How big is the-- how wide is the smaller one that we're going through?
Matt: There's one, the one on the far end, the one that does not appear to be a decline, seems to be the widest of the two.
Travis: I pull out a torch. Will you light my torch?
Orion: Yeah.
Travis: Nice. (all laugh)
Travis: Are we going to the left?
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: I take off running to the left.
Laura: Oh, god. Grog!
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Running, running?
Travis: Running!
Liam: Really running?
Travis: Running to the left.
Orion: Oh man, oh no!
Matt: Grog goes charging into the darkened tunnel to the very left--
Laura: Grog! Stop!
Orion: Let's go, everybody!
Marisha: There he goes!
Laura: I'm gonna take off after him.
Matt: The heavy footsteps of Grog disappearing into the darkness--
Travis: (maniacal laugh)
Laura: We take off after him, 'cause he needs help.
Orion: Let's go!
Marisha: Grog, Grog! Don't run too far ahead-- He's gone.
Matt: You guys give chase.
Laura: Yes.
Liam: It's like having Goofy as a party member. (all laugh)
Liam: (Goofy laugh)
Ashley: Hodor!
Travis: Hah. Hodor.
Ashley: Hodor.
Matt: As you guys catch up to Grog, which isn't too hard--
Travis: What? I'm fast.
Matt: Are you going to a full sprint, though?
Travis: No, no, no. I mean. A leisurely jog.
Matt: Right. You catch up to Grog. The tunnel itself is about 30 feet wide, 20 feet tall. And it is a slow, continuously gradual decline and curve to the left.
Laura: Can you do another wall?
Matt: Like a spiral, downward.
Laura: No?
Travis: Maybe we could do a cave-in.
Laura: Well, that might be dangerous.
Travis: Yeah, but it'd be fun.
Matt: You guys continue for another 20 or so minutes down, before it opens up into a small alcove to the right, but the tunnel continues. This alcove, it's about 35, 40 feet in, and it looks like there are remnants here of a camp that was set up once. Similar to the war camp, but once again abandoned, or at least currently not in use.
Liam: Any useful shit?
Laura: Can we go, oh! Can we go in? We should probably rest, heal up, get our spells back. Can you cast the illusion terrain and make it look like there's no hole in the cavern here?
Marisha: No. I can't, today. I'm sorry.
Orion: If this is where we're gonna be chilling, I can seal off that tunnel still.
Laura: But we have to be able to get back out.
Orion: Right.
Travis: Not necessarily.
Ashley: If I--
Liam: No! If you seal off the passage, right, we keep going down, and if that's a dead end-- it's probably not-- if it is, can't we rest and use the same spell to open it up?
Orion: No, it's permanent.
Liam: That sucks.
Orion: But we would just have Grog hack away at it for a while--
Travis: Thank you!
Orion: It can be, you know, destroyed.
Travis: They do call me 'Grog the Locksmith.'
Orion: Right!
Travis: They don't call me that.
Laura: Can we go in and look at the camp and see, like, stealthily--
Matt: Yeah!
Laura: -- check out what the camp is?
Marisha: I can make it really foggy.
Matt: Go ahead and make an investigate check.
Marisha: I could do that.
Liam: Yes, we know that about you.
Travis: Oh, I can too!
Liam: What about in the game, though?
Marisha: I can make it look like a--
Laura: 20.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Well, that's a different story.
Matt: As you guys are having this conversation, Vex does a quick glance over, there are about four tents that are still set up, there appears to be a small ring where a fire was set up, and you can see kind of bits of charcoal--
Taliesin: Yes!
Matt: -- and bits of long, long, long forgotten burnt meat, remnants, charcoal, and such there.
Travis: I have two firewood bundles.
Taliesin: I'm gonna look for a seal, to see if there's a seal anywhere around.
Matt: You do see, on one of the walls--
Taliesin: Bam!
Matt: -- there is a similar seal of Bahamut.
Laura: (gasps) Oh! This was her camp!
Taliesin: Kima was here!
Laura: Kima was here!
Marisha: #kimawashere.
Matt: However, there are four tents here--
Laura: Oh.
Orion: Kima was here.
Matt: Which means-- previously you saw just one, from what you saw. There are four here.
Travis: She had babies.
Matt: It's an interesting change to your appearance. Means either been repurposed, or there were more people with her, or since then the tent, the camp has been used by other individuals aside from her.
Travis: Oh.
Matt: However, glancing through, you do notice that there are a few discarded travel bags--
Laura: Mine! Mine! Mine!
Marisha: Ooh!
Matt: -- carrying rope, grappling hooks, general cluster of torches, about eight in total--
Laura: Okay, that's nice. Torch, torch, torch, torch.
Travis: Thank you! Bag of holding, bag of holding.
Matt: And as you glance about you can see, in this alcove, looking at the dirt itself, it looks like there was a serious struggle. You can start seeing drag mark--
Laura: Can I use Tracking and see what happened, like Prince Humperdink, please? Can do?
Matt: Ah, well, this is part of your investigation roll, essentially.
Laura: Okay, okay.
Matt: Unless you want to track to where the tracks went, that's a different story. That's--
Laura: Well, can I see who was attacked first? Does it look like Kima was attacked, or she--
Matt: It's hard to tell, you see some of the footsteps, and some of the drag marks, while mostly worn over, elements do show some of the fairer folk. The duergar have a very distinct footprint or size. You do see one that resembles more of, like, gnomish or halfling origin. You see drag marks in the dirt, you see other individuals, looks like there were chunks of rock that have been chopped off the side of the wall that look fresh, where you can see the soot that has settled into this part of the cavern is no longer visible where these scratch marks basically took off and exposed fresh rock.
Laura: The drag marks, do they lead outside of the alcove and down?
Matt: They do, and they lead down the tunnel further.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Let's go that way, or are we resting?
Laura: Do we need to rest? I mean--
Liam: I think we should rest.
Orion: I need to rest.
Laura: -- I feel like we need to get our spells back, otherwise we're just gonna get killed.
Orion: Yes.
Marisha: Are we being chased right now?
Taliesin: Possibly.
Orion: Possibly.
Marisha: Are people hot on our tail?
Orion: Possibly.
Taliesin: We can rest in shifts.
Laura: Yeah. I guess that's the best thing to do.
Travis: I'll stay awake.
Liam: I'm totally fine at the moment, so I'll stay awake too.
Orion: Should I seal the tunnel?
Marisha: I need to sleep.
Laura: Maybe seal the tunnel behind us, yeah, so that--
Liam: Yes.
Laura: -- if they do come, they have to like, try to get through.
Ashley: I can stay, I can stay awake too, I'm okay.
Orion: Cool.
Ashley: So maybe everybody sleep--
Orion: So I do.
Matt: Okay. So you use your spell, you seal off the tunnel with pillars. You can just barely get most of the entranceway covered, there's a couple of small slivers and spaces between.
Orion: But we would sure hear them, if they were--
Laura: Trying to get through, yeah.
Matt: Yeah. If they were.
Laura: All right.
Matt: All right. So you guys end up making camp, are you guys lighting a fire? Or are you keeping it dark? What's your plan?
Travis: Yeah. I've got two firewood bundles in the bag of Ikea holding.
Taliesin: I don't think we need a fire.
Liam: I don't think it's a good idea.
Ashley: Do we need a fire?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: We're fine. It's warm down here.
Matt: It's fairly warm.
Liam: Yes.
Orion: Oh.
Travis: Then, no? (all laugh)
Liam: We've got Tiberius, if he's awake, can cast Light, let's just go into one of these tents.
Travis: I wanna burn something.
Laura: I know.
Marisha: Yeah, two to a tent.
Laura: You can keep burning a torch.
Marisha: We can each have our own tent! There's enough.
Laura: Stick it in the ground.
Travis: Is there anything made of wood down here?
Orion: I actually have to rest completely, so I can't do shifts.
Travis: I want to set it on fire.
Matt: Okay. Fair enough.
Orion: I need all my spell slots.
Marisha: I need to sleep as well.
Matt: What wood there is, is used charcoal in the abandoned fire pit, unfortunately.
Ashley: Yeah, but can you--
Travis: I wanted to pyro shit.
Matt: You guys get set up?
Liam: I pull out some dice, so that Grog and I can gamble while everyone are sleeping.
Travis: Ooh!
Matt: Fair enough.
Taliesin: How much does a rest heal? Out of curiosity?
Matt: A rest heals you to full.
Taliesin: Oh, excellent.
Laura: Oh, sweet! Yeah, let's fully rest.
Taliesin: Do I have time to do a quick engineering feat, as well?
Matt: You do not have--
Taliesin: Oh, okay. Never mind.
Matt: Like at this point, I mean, you could-- what're you trying to do? I should say.
Taliesin: Make an explosive arrow. I'm just in a mood.
Matt: Do you have any currently built explosives?
Taliesin: No, but I have gunpowder.
Matt: You know what, I'll let you go ahead and try it with just your tinker's kit--
Taliesin: Yeah.
Laura: Tinker's?
Matt: It's gonna be a difficult--
Taliesin: That's fine!
Matt: -- roll, but go for it.
Taliesin: What do I add? Am I just straight roll?
Matt: You add your proficiency bonus, which is, the tinker's kit is four.
Taliesin: Oh, okay. Proficiency bonus. 15?
Matt: 15? Okay, okay. You manage to fasten what appears to be a black powder, impact-based explosive to the tip of an arrow. It's a little weighty and unwieldy, it might not be the most accurate thing in the world, but if it hits it's probably gonna pack a punch.
Taliesin: Okay. I have another gift.
Laura: You do?
Taliesin: Explosive arrow!
Laura: This is the best day ever!
Taliesin: It's a bit iffy.
Liam: (Cary Elwes voice) Gently! Gently!
Orion: It's a bit iffy.
Laura: Gently!
Marisha: Don't trust it!
Taliesin: It's a bit iffy.
Laura: I gingerly put it in my quiver.
Orion: More like a shotgun.
Taliesin: It'll get better. It'll get better.
Travis: Can you make me an explosive axe?
Matt: You very gingerly place it within your quiver.
Laura: Oh god, all right.
Taliesin: I don't think you want an explosive axe.
Matt: It's heavy in the tip.
Travis: Why?
Matt: It's one of those things where, you know, shooting it is going to be an interesting challenge.
Laura: Should I keep it away from the rest of my stuff?
Matt: That's up to you!
Laura: Is there a possibility it could explode just--
Orion: You haven't even played with your hammer yet!
Matt: I dunno.
Taliesin: It's very unlikely to explode on by itself. 'Cause it needs to be moving at a high speed. But it's just not the best thing ever.
Laura: Maybe I won't keep it straight behind my head.
Taliesin: Yeah, no. Not straight behind.
Laura: Let's just kind of keep it down at my waist--
Liam: Off to the side.
Laura: With the dagger, maybe.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Is that cool?
Taliesin: The next one will be better.
Matt: All right.
Laura: All right. Did we all rest? Are we all rested?
Taliesin: Yep.
Matt: As the evening transpires, you all get your evenings of rest, you guys kind of keeping watch, gambling away. At a certain point, throughout the evening, something perks up your ears. You begin hearing footsteps, many footsteps.
Liam: Many footsteps.
Laura: (gasps) Oh no. How many is many? A lot.
Liam: How many does it sound like?
Matt: It sounds like anywhere between six, ten, more--
Liam: From, right, from up? Or down.
Matt: From above, yeah.
Liam: From above.
Travis: Up. Oh.
Laura: We should wake up.
Ashley: From above?
Travis: Like, the ceiling? Or--
Laura: Well like the-- no, no, no. From like--
Ashley: Like where you have the--
Laura: Up the path, right?
Matt: Up the path you guys came from.
Liam: Wait. Grog and I are the only ones awake, right?
Ashley: That he shielded off?
Orion: Yeah, it's sealed.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Yep.
Liam: Grog and I are the only ones awake.
Orion: Right.
Liam: Do we lay low, and hold quiet in these tents? Or do we get everyone up?
Laura: They're gonna know, 'cause we blocked off the friggin' path! I'm asleep. Sorry.
Liam: Yeah.
Ashley: I'm still awake.
Travis: Lay low. Let them come.
Liam: I think so.
Laura: (whispers) What? You're just really--
Travis: Keep sleeping and shut up!
Liam: No, no, no, I rouse my sister quietly.
Laura: What?
Travis: Oh. Fine.
Liam: She's in this tent.
Travis: Wake her up.
Laura: What's going--
Liam: (whispers) Quiet.
Matt: All right. Leaving the rest asleep?
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: I stealth.
Matt: The three of you make a stealth check.
Travis: I stealth as well.
Matt: You do, Grog. You do.
Laura: God damn.
Travis: Fuck yeah! A two!
Laura: I should stop rolling this fucking dice.
Travis: 17.
Ashley: Wait, are you guys asleep?
Liam: 23.
Marisha: I'm still passed out.
Laura: Oh! Yeah, that was a one. This, by the way--
Matt: Again?
Laura: -- was given to me by Wil Wheaton.
Travis: Yeah. Wake up your sister.
Laura: Thank you, Wil.
Travis: It was just us boys--
Matt: Thank you, Wil.
Travis: -- and then you woke her up.
Matt: All right, so--
Ashley: Wait, I was awake too.
Matt: You were awake too?
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: At this point? You weren't resting?
Travis: What. You?
Laura: No, she was--
Travis: Oh, she was actually awake.
Ashley: Because I was, I was still at full--
Laura: (whispers) But you needed your spells.
Matt: Okay, then--
Ashley: Oh, but my spells? Actually--
Matt: If you're not resting you don't get your spells back.
Orion: Yeah, you need--
Ashley: -- I fell asleep! I totally forgot. I am sound asleep.
Marisha: Totally forgot I fell asleep!
Ashley: I was dreaming--
Travis: She dreamed, in the dream she was still awake.
Matt: You are welcome to stay awake if you want, but you just won't get your spells back.
Ashley: I was dreaming, it was real--
Matt: You'd probably be exhausted.
Ashley: -- I was so confused, by my dream.
Taliesin: You were just going all Inception on us.
Liam: You know, when you can't fall asleep--
Ashley: My perception was off.
Liam: -- and you're like, am I dreaming? Or is this the dream? Or is it real?
Taliesin: Spin the top. Spin the top.
Ashley: I was totally sleeping.
Liam: And you wake up, and you have to pee, it's hard to tell.
Ashley: And I spaced.
Travis: So the three of us are up.
Ashley: I was asleep.
Matt: All right. So. Between the three of you, thankfully, you had two successes against one failure. You manage to cover for your sister--
Liam: Shake it off.
Laura: Thank you, thank you.
Matt: -- who, who, 'Huh? What? What?'
Laura: Ah-- what? What?
Matt: When you wake her up.
Liam: Sh! Sh.
Matt: You guys quietly wait--
Travis: Oh no, that was a bad expression!
Liam: Daggers out! Daggers out!
Ashley: Or that was good?
Matt: All right. So.
Laura: Oh no. Did eyebrows go up?
Taliesin: (whistles In the Hall of the Mountain King)
Matt: The footsteps progress through, and you-- there's no light source, as duergar for the most part do not require light to see in the tunnels.
Laura: Can we see through the dark-- but we can see in the dark?
Matt: You guys have low-light vision, not dark vision.
Liam: Not dark vision.
Laura: There's no light in this area at all?
Travis: No! It's balls-ass dark!
Liam: There's no fire--
Matt: No, it is pitch black. You just hear--
Liam: On purpose no fire.
Matt: -- you just hear the footprints go by.
Travis: Good thing we didn't make a campfire!
Liam: Sh, sh!
Matt: You hear them approach the outskirts of the alcove.
Ashley: I have dark vision, gosh dang it!
Matt: But you're asleep.
Ashley: I'm fucking sleeping.
Matt: Yes, you are. (all laugh)
Ashley: Bad choices, all around!
Liam: They're going!
Matt: As the footsteps approach the outskirts of the alcove, the rest of you sleeping soundly, unaware of what's transpiring-- A few moments pass, and the footprints appear to be passing, past, downward into the tunnel. (all laugh)
Matt: Eventually, when the footfalls dissipate, and silence once again takes the camp, you breathe a sigh of relief and remove your hand from Vex's face.
Travis: Well, maybe just leave it there.
Liam: Last time I did that I got kicked in the nuts, very hard.
Travis: And liked it.
Matt: All right. So. Eventually, when you feel enough time has passed, where those who've been resting come from their sleep, spells recovered, wounds are healed, except for those who didn't sleep, you guys maintain the same health you had previously.
Ashley: What a good sleep I've had! I have all my spells back!
Matt: That also puts a level of exhaustion-- So. There is one level of exhaustion on both of you currently.
Liam: Sure. So what does that do to us?
Laura: Oh no.
Orion: Ah. You fools!
Matt: It just means any ability checks you take--
Liam: Yes.
Matt: So, any skills you take are at disadvantage until you get a full night's rest.
Travis: I'll take one more level two potion right now.
Liam: Skill? Skill. Okay.
Travis: One more level two potion.
Matt: Okay. You can use-- remember, you can use your hit dice to heal still, before you start throwing potions around. If you have a moment to rest--
Laura: Hit dice. We forgot about that because it wasn't there before.
Matt: Yeah. (sings) Fifth Edition! Before you start throwing potions around, 'cause remember, you're far away from civilization right now, you have a very limited number of potions now to lead you through here, unless you find some way to return to the surface.
Liam: Just for emergencies.
Orion: What's happening?
Liam: In combat.
Matt: So. You all eventually come back to consciousness, in this darkened alcove, pitch black. It is still warm, slight smell of soot and dust in the air, what do you guys want to do?
Liam: I have a question.
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Outside of existence. Tiberius put up a stone, right?
Matt: Mm-hm.
Liam: But I didn't hear any (impact sounds), right?
Laura: Oh, no, he put it up next to our alcove. So, they just kind of passed by our alcove.
Matt: It basically matched the wall as you guys went around.
Liam: Oh. So we sealed ourselves into this little pocket?
Laura: Yes. We did.
Liam: Oh. We didn't even friggin' need to hide in the tent! We were in a little bubble of air!
Laura: Well, no, well, it's pillars, though, they could have--
Matt: You're not completely in there.
Laura: -- they could have seen us.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: He could block off most of it, there's like little spaces between--
Liam: Spaces. Okay. All right. Thank you.
Laura: I think we should all freshen up, since it's a new day!
Liam: Right. We're all healed, maybe-- Does anyone have to pee? Or perhaps--
Laura: Yeah, that.
Ashley: Yeah.
Laura: That.
Orion: Is anyone particularly dirty?
Laura: Intermission!
Matt: Indeed. So. This, given the point in time that you all wake from your slumber, we'll continue this in a few minutes. In the meantime, we're gonna go ahead and go to our intermission break. See you guys back here in about 12 minutes or so.
Marisha: Oh, cool.
Zac: So we're gonna update everyone real quick.
Matt: All right, what you got, man?
Zac: You guys can go, you guys can go.
Matt: Go, go!
Zac: Matt and I are gonna chat. Lucas, can you turn down all the other mics while they're exiting? (fart noises in background)
Zac: So guys, we already gave away one promo kit, so we reached our first goal.
Matt: Awesome. Fantastic.
Zac: That's one. I'm gonna bring out a poster for you guys to sign that we'll put inside the promo kit with it.
Matt: Perfect.
Zac: And we're actually pretty close to giving away our second promo kit. So, just so you guys know-- what the shit? If we get another 50, I think it's like 40 more, or 38 more? The number's on the bottom. We'll give away another promo kit, and these guys will all sign the poster that goes inside, and we'll get that shipped out to you as quickly as possible.
Matt: Yeah, do it.
Zac: That's pretty much the only update there. Oh, do you want to make a quick mention about the charity that you guys work with? Because we've been posting that in the chat room.
Matt: Yes, yes. Yes, 826LA, guys, is a charity that we've been been trying to raise money for. Essentially, it's a Los Angeles-based, also in San Francisco and other parts of the nation. It helps teach and tutor children in literacy, storytelling-- it's a really great charity. Go ahead and look on the website 826LA.com for any and all information you require on it. But they are a really good cause, they're good people, and been a fan of their work for a long time. So we are happy to help however we can and however you guys are able to help as well. So.
Zac: Great. If the mods want to post the command 'criticalrole', you guys can link to that charity and we'll go ahead and roll those videos so you guys can get updated on the characters, and we'll be back in a little bit.
Matt: See you guys in a little bit. [character intros]
Matt: Welcome back, guys. All right, I think everyone is sufficiently rested and bathroom breaked.
Laura: Yep.
Matt: And so we will pick it back up. So as you all regain consciousness and prepare yourselves for the day ahead, once again, you've gone a number of days without sunlight, without any vision of the sky. It's a very disorienting experience for all of you who are unfamiliar with subterranean territory. Even though you are rested, you don't feel rested. There's kinks in your back from the rocky floor. The best you could find yourself any sort of comfort here is from whatever you have on your back. Most of you sleep in your armor out of necessity and paranoia. As consciousness comes to you, you guys are able to try and find your way back out now that you've been sealed in.
Laura: Can we squish through the little cracks?
Matt: No.
Laura: We have to cut it down?
Matt: You have about a five, six-inch gap between each of them.
Laura: So we've gotta break our way out of here, Grog.
Travis: Oh, do I get to hit things?
Matt: You do.
Liam: Start smacking the wall.
Travis: My god.
Ashley: Can I just give it a try, just to see? Try make a dent.
Matt: Yeah, go ahead and make an athletics check.
Travis: And just to try it out, I would like bring out the flaming hammer of--
Matt: Actually, for this I would say it's a straight strength check. This is just physicality, strength against the stonework.
Liam: Might need to take your armor off.
Ashley: Strength is?
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: Oh, it's right here.
Travis: 23.
Matt: All right.
Travis: With the hammer.
Ashley: Ten.
Marisha: We're playing pillar pinata.
Matt: All right, so as Pike-- as you go and swing at the pillar, you impact with all your might and the pillar cracks at the impact. You're like, 'that is awesome', then you look up a few inches and notice that Grog's ax is also in the same pillar.
Ashley: Oh. (all laugh)
Ashley: Yay teamwork, teamwork.
Travis: Yay, you loosened it up for me.
Ashley: Yeah I did!
Marisha: Yeah.
Liam: (singing) That's fuckin' teamwork.
Ashley: Best pals!
Matt: You guys, you take five or six minutes or so. You manage to hack away enough in one of the pillars to leave enough room to squeeze through. It takes a while. You manage to cleave that open. You all gather your things, you group together and you can continue in whichever direction you wish.
Ashley: Down.
Travis: Yeah, we're going down.
Matt: All right, as you guys--
Laura: Stealth!
Liam: There are also some, I believe some duergar we didn't tell you--
Laura: Ahead of us.
Liam: Yes, while you were sleeping in the middle of the night, duergar walked-- I assume--
Laura: Dooragar?
Liam: Duraga.
Liam: (in odd accent) Duergar, some duergar walked down the passageway while you were sleeping.
Taliesin: Doo-agar.
Orion: Duragar.
Ashley: Dooagar.
Liam: But we thought it best to lay low and they went on.
Marisha: That's good.
Laura: Yes.
Liam: So, steady as she goes.
Laura: They might be ahead of us.
Taliesin: We should probably be quiet.
Marisha: Before we leave, I wanna go ahead and take a minute to meditate. If you guys can, you know, just watch while I meditate.
Taliesin: Oh god.
Laura: And lend our energy to you.
Marisha: Yes, if you guys could lend your positive energy it would be very helpful.
Travis: (fart sounds)
Marisha: So I can Commune With Nature.
Taliesin: I'll be out of the hole.
Marisha: I want to do Commune (pronouncing incorrectly) With Nature.
Matt: Commune? (pronouncing correctly)
Marisha: Yes, or Commune, whatever.
Matt: You wanna start a commune in nature?
Travis: Commune.
Marisha: Yeah, I want to start a commune in nature.
Taliesin: Commune in a commune.
Orion: Can we do that? How high is that roll again?
Marisha: Commune in commune in a commune.
Liam: Going the homeopathic route, I like it.
Marisha: That one.
Matt: Okay, keeping the best essence--
Taliesin: Oh god.
Matt: -- of the scenery around you, you take a moment. What's the reach of that one?
Marisha: Just read it, where is it?
Matt: Whatcha got?
Marisha: Three miles.
Matt: Three miles. The natural entities that you can sense in this cavern system are the few clusters of bats that exist in the back portion of the war camp that you guys just ran from. That's about it, I mean, there are a few other strange things that you've seen that live down here, but they wouldn't be anything that you would naturally sense.
Travis: What more do you see?
Marisha: Lots of bats. They're very nice bats
Travis: Well, that's good.
Orion: I love bats.
Marisha: Very pleasant, they're very friendly. That's about it.
Orion: Very good.
Laura: Bats.
Marisha: Bats.
Taliesin: Bats.
Marisha: Okay, carry on, let's go.
Travis: Oh, good.
Laura: All right.
Marisha: Thank you for your positive energy.
Laura: Nice.
Matt: All right, you guys step back into the tunnel, all of you squeezing through with the rest of your materials, heading further down. About 15 minutes of travel go by and the very air itself is becoming steadily warmer.
Taliesin: It's humid in here.
Matt: The smell is this combination of still water, groundwater type of a scent mixed with an ever-growing kind of sulfur-type, brimstone smell.
Liam: Smells like Grog.
Travis: I would like to trip Vax. (all laugh)
Liam: That was quick. (all laugh)
Travis: As he's walking.
Liam: I insult you and you trip me in a half a second? Would you like to take a shot at my nads as well?
Laura: You knew it was coming, as well.
Matt: Make an athletics check.
Travis: Yes! 24!
Matt: Make an acrobatics check.
Travis: Suck it, elf.
Liam: What goes around comes around, baby. 22.
Marisha: Ooh.
Matt: (impact sound) Face down, Vax.
Travis: Yes!
Matt: A slight bruise on the cheek as you go faceplanting into the stonework ahead of you.
Taliesin: For god's sake.
Liam: I'm going to voluntarily erase one hit point.
Travis: What, what happened? What happened? Did you not stealth past that little pebble?
Liam: It's all right, when the illithid general is bearing down on your walnut-sized brain--
Travis: Yeah?
Liam: I may be there, I may not.
Ashley: Hey! Don't be rude to him!
Laura: You guys, you guys.
Travis: Oh, I'm so happy right now.
Laura: These caverns are getting to us. (all laugh)
Matt: Clarota shuffles alongside you guys.
Liam: Right, everyone, we're getting slap-happy.
Laura: All right, all right, all right, let's call this.
Travis: That's all I wanted.
Ashley: Lack of oxygen.
Laura: We're going crazy down here.
Marisha: Grog, it's only 9 30 in the morning.
Orion: I feel fine.
Marisha: For christ's sake.
Matt: As you guys are walking, you're welcome to make chatter, any discussions you'd like.
Liam: That was a high acrobatics roll. I think the DM wanted me to eat shit.
Matt: No, it was yours versus his.
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Oh, really? It was a direct contest?
Matt: It was a direct versus 24 versus 22. He won.
Liam: You still wanted me to eat shit.
Matt: No, it's up to the rolls, man.
Marisha: So wait, we get a chance to chat for a second?
Orion: Yes.
Marisha: Pike, did you ever fully tell us what all you saw in your vision? I mean, have you perhaps had any more visions?
Laura: Visions? You had a vision?
Ashley: I did, I did.
Laura: What?
Ashley: So, when I stayed away, I went to a shrine of Sarenrae, just to sorta see, 'cause I had a feeling that I'd been here, or something like that. So in this vision, I basically saw what we've been going through already.
Marisha: What?
Ashley: And what the soldier was talking about. So I saw something that was-- there was a single twisted horn of blackened soul matter.
Laura: Oh, soul matter?
Marisha: Soul matter?
Taliesin: Oh.
Liam: Sounds dirty.
Ashley: It was a point of concentrated evil.
Orion: Oh.
Laura: This horn?
Ashley: Yes.
Marisha: Concentrated evil.
Orion: Nasty horn.
Ashley: And it was so strong that I couldn't stay in the vision, because I could feel that it was taking over, so I pulled me out of the dream, among various things. But I saw--
Marisha: Like the horn of Sauron?
Ashley: The horn of Sauron, is what it said.
Orion: Is that your cousin?
Liam: Did you see any whales?
Laura: The horn of--
Ashley: I didn't see whales.
Liam: No whales.
Laura: Okay, no narwhals.
Marisha: No whales, no narwhals.
Laura: The horn of K'varn, yes?
Ashley: Yes.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: Horn of evil.
Ashley: I some visions of where sort of-- 'Cause I kind of went in past and then got to this thing. So I guess depending on where we are--
Laura: Can you lead in the direction to go?
Ashley: Yes, if I see things that are familiar. Such as-- (all laugh)
Ashley: I went past a jagged onyx-colored fortress framed in molten rock.
Liam: Oh.
Laura: I think that probably--
Marisha: The place we're heading.
Laura: The place we're going to.
Ashley: Yes.
Liam: That sounds creepy
Ashley: Past a field of broken glass and bone.
Orion: Right.
Marisha: We haven't seen that. Oh no.
Travis: Obsidian, maybe?
Ashley: Yeah.
Taliesin: Or just melted sand.
Travis: I mean, whatever that is.
Ashley: And the prettiest was into a cavern of blue crystal, where a fungal fortress--
Laura: A fungal fortress?
Marisha: Ooh.
Ashley: -- sort of entwined an ancient city of marble and jade--
Orion: Three different places.
Liam: That sounds really shitty.
Laura: Did the blue gemstones look valuable?
Marisha: It sounds amazing, that doesn't sound shitty.
Matt: As you start to mention that now, Clarota kind of nods and says,
Liam: It feels a bit-- broken glass.
Matt: "Aye, that's where the colony resides."
Laura: Your colony?
Matt: "Our great city."
Liam: In which of those places? In the--
Laura: In the fungal city.
Liam: Fungal.
Matt: "Amongst the ruins of jade and glass."
Laura: (whispers) Jade.
Orion: Is that where we should go?
Marisha: That's Yug'Voril?
Matt: "Surrounded by the forest."
Marisha: That's Yug'Voril?
Matt: "The city below Yug'Voril, that is where the temple resides, where K'varn holds the Elder Brain."
Laura: Ah.
Orion: Ah, this is where we need to go, I'm assuming.
Matt: "Ah, yes."
Liam: He sounds like a real fun-guy.
Travis: Oh god. (all groan)
Taliesin: Trip him again, trip him again.
Marisha: Trip him again!
Liam: I'm a dad. (all laugh)
Laura: So I bet the fortress--
Matt: Make a will saving throw. (all laugh)
Ashley: Oh my god.
Liam: What is that? Wisdom?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: 12.
Matt: Okay, you feel a mental slap as Clarota glares at you from across the tunnel. "There'll be none of that in my presence."
Travis: You got bitch-slapped.
Matt: "I hate puns." (all laugh)
Travis: (high-pitched voice) I hate puns.
Liam: Noted, noted.
Laura: So I bet, first fortress you saw, I bet the one of obsidian was where--
Liam: Percy's losing his shit.
Orion: There's a bathroom right over there, Percy.
Laura: -- where Lady Kima is being held.
Ashley: I think--
Laura: I bet that's the one, because he mentioned molten lava or something. So she's being held there and then further in is K'varn.
Ashley: Yeah.
Orion: So get there, get K'varn.
Matt: "Yes, Emberhold, yes."
Laura: Emberhold, yes. Is that an obsidian fortress?
Matt: "It is black and jagged, I think, yes."
Laura: Well, let's keep going that way.
Marisha: So the ultimate question is, are we heading the right way? Are we heading the right way, Pike, do you know?
Ashley: Can I perception check? (all laugh)
Matt: You guys are unfamiliar with this tunnel, Clarota is unfamiliar with this tunnel. All you know is it's going down. That's better than up.
Ashley: I feel like that's the way we need to go.
Laura: So, just keep going, then?
Taliesin: Let's keep going.
Travis: Do I need to take off running again?
Laura: No.
Ashley: I think basically we need to go down, 'cause if we go up that means we're going out.
Laura: Yeah, let's keep going.
Travis: We can go--
Matt: You guys press forward and you begin to encounter little trickles on the ceiling of orange, glowing little puddles.
Laura: Avoid that!
Marisha: If we learned anything from Minecraft-- (all laugh)
Laura: Don't touch that.
Matt: Progressing further down, you start seeing large clusters, little pools of molten rock beginning to form under certain sections. In a little ways up, you begin hearing some additional footsteps to your own. Further down the tunnel.
Laura: Oh. Can we stealth, can we stealth? And my favored terrain is the Underdark.
Matt: It is.
Laura: I don't know what that means, though. (all laugh)
Laura: No, no, no, I know. But I don't know what favored terrain gives me, because I tried to look it up and couldn't find it.
Ashley: You just love it.
Laura: Does it give me an advantage?
Matt: Here, there's a sheet that has all the information you need.
Laura: Oh good, thank you.
Orion: By the way, I take one of the earrings from Scanlan and give it to Grog. So Grog, now you've got one of the--
Travis: I've got an earring?
Matt: Scanlan is not happy about this.
Orion: Well? He's not saying anything.
Liam: Everyone, there's footsteps coming from ahead. Let Vex'ahlia and I scout ahead. Wait for a moment.
Laura: Yes, okay. Let's go.
Matt: Stealth checks, both of you.
Laura: Yes, finally.
Liam: 22 for me.
Matt: All right.
Laura: The same for me, actually. Twinsies. Sorry.
Matt: All right, so you guys vanish into the darkness best as you can tell, kind of weaving between the portions of the tunnel that naturally shift and give you moments where you can hide up inside. As you guys hold back, you guys push ahead, and you can see the little points of glowing light where these lava pools every 100 or so feet begin to appear. You begin listening out, and you hear these footfalls are very heavy, and the gait of whoever is walking seems to be wider than that of the normal humanoid.
Travis: Ah, let me play. Please.
Liam: Well it's definitely not duergar. How far ahead of us do they sound?
Laura: Can we see it?
Matt: Probably a good 60, 70 feet. You hear some muttering.
Laura: Can I understand what they're saying?
Matt: No.
Liam: I'm listening, trying to make out how many sets of footsteps I can hear.
Laura: And I look on the ground and see if I can find multiple sets of footsteps as well.
Matt: Looking on the ground, you guys have no light source currently. It's pitch black.
Liam: But there's lava spilling and we can see in dim light.
Matt: Do you want to go to the nearest lava pool? All right. It's very, very faint visual. You can see there are a number of tracks, up and down. All different sizes. This area, this tunnel is traversed quite a lot. Listening, you hear two sets of heavy footsteps. And you hear what sounds like some sort of squeak sound, like a (squeaks).
Travis: Shit.
Liam: Cart. Could be some sort of device--
Matt: From around the edge, you can just barely make out these two lumbering humanoid shapes.
Liam: Can we tell what they are?
Laura: Oh, he's trying to see if they're seeing us.
Liam: Yes.
Matt: They begin to step towards your direction.
Laura: We back away.
Matt: You guys back and kind of flatten yourself against the wall.
Liam: Separate sides.
Matt: You can see they're now both dragging behind them this small roughshod cart, with something inside it.
Laura: We string a rope across the tunnel.
Matt: Okay, you pull it across.
Marisha: Oh, yeah!
Matt: (deep grumbling and laughter)
Liam: I also yank my serpentine belt off--
Laura: Oh!
Liam: And throw it out, right under the rope.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: What does that do?
Liam: Snake.
Matt: So, as he throws the leather, the leather shifts form suddenly in midair into a serpent that slips onto the ground, and slithers in place, curling up at the approaching two monolithic entities.
Laura: That is stupid.
Liam: Yes, it is.
Laura: This is gonna go really poorly.
Matt: As they begin to cross in front of you, you both pull taut on the rope.
Laura: This is dumb.
Matt: The immediate one falls forward, tripping face-first on the ground, a heavy (impact sound). You guys hear in the distance this loud thud, impact sound.
Laura: And we call, I go, Grog!
Travis: I'm raging.
Liam: And I leap out, daggers at the fallen one.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Run!
Matt: You guys come rushing in, let's go ahead and roll initiative.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Travis: I raged.
Matt: I figured you were raging.
Travis: Well, you know, when the ladies call my name.
Taliesin: That sucks.
Marisha: That's not too bad, could be worse.
Orion: Yes, sounds good.
Marisha: What are we fighting? What are we fighting?
Laura: I know, right? Oh god, here we go.
Marisha: What are we fighting, we don't know.
Laura: Oh! Lava pools.
Taliesin: Lava pools.
Marisha: Lava pools, Lava pools.
Travis: Wow.
Ashley: Wow.
Marisha: Grog, you better be throwing bitches into that lava.
Travis: Last time I tried to do somebody to something, I did it to myself, so.
Liam: Hashtag bitches in lava?
Marisha: Hashtag bitches in lava!
Matt: You guys, coming in this way.
Marisha: Bitches in lava, bitches in lava.
Ashley: Oh god!
Laura: Oh god!
Orion: She's excited about the lava.
Liam: I got 99 problems and a troll ain't one.
Laura: Are they trolls, are they ogres?
Matt: They are two giant ogres.
Laura: Oh, god, one's on the ground.
Travis: Oh, shit.
Laura: It's huge, these are really big.
Matt: One is back here and one's just fallen over there.
Ashley: Holy cow.
Matt: And they are carrying some sort of large cart-like object, I'll just say for now.
Laura: This is so dumb, why did we do this?
Taliesin: This is a d20.
Matt: Let's say it's about there. All right.
Travis: What's in the cart?
Matt: So, initiative order, guys?
Laura: Do we get the surprise at all?
Matt: You do, actually! I'm rolling initiative, so we have the order. You guys are gonna have a full round of surprise on them first.
Laura: Okay, cool.
Matt: All right, so, 25 to 20?
Laura: Oh, man, really?
Matt: 20 to 15?
Orion: 19.
Laura: 15.
Liam: 15.
Orion: I got scared and I cast Stoneskin immediately.
Ashley: Cast what?
Orion: Stoneskin.
Matt: So Vex and Vax, both at 15?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: 15, yeah.
Liam: Oh!
Laura: Oh!
Matt: 15 to ten?
Taliesin: 13.
Marisha: 13 as well.
Ashley: 11.
Laura: Oh no, Grog, what did you roll?
Travis: I farted when I rolled, I rolled a 9.
Matt: Oh! Grog.
Ashley: Greg.
Orion: How much does the ogre weigh? Or the ogres, as you said?
Matt: The ogres, each one weighs nearly a ton.
Travis: Oh, shit, really?
Laura: Oh, they're huge.
Travis: So, like, 200 pounds.
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Yes.
Liam: Yes, exactly.
Matt: Yes, Grog, close to that.
Laura: Yes, Grog.
Matt: All right, let's go fast here. Here we go. All right, so, top of the round-- No! Surprise round for both of you guys first, as the rest of you rush in, so Vex and Vax, you guys get a surprise round.
Laura: Awesome.
Liam: I'm already jumping in the air, so I'm gonna go.
Matt: To the guy on the ground.
Liam: Okay, and this, since it's a surprise, it's automatic crit?
Matt: Yes!
Laura: Oh, nice.
Marisha: Hell, yeah!
Matt: He's on the ground, so you get advantage on your attack rolls.
Liam: Okay, okay, all right, so that's 28.
Matt: That definitively hits.
Liam: Yeah, 1d4 for-- this is my poison dagger. Two, eight, okay, I'm doing my Sneak Attack damage, here we go, four, nine, 12, 18, yeah, 23. Total for that, 62 points of damage.
Matt: 62 points of damage.
Laura: Wow.
Matt: You leap on and entirely eviscerate the ogre. You jumped onto his back, slashing the back of his torso. As you pull open the flesh, you expose the back of the ribcage, and he goes into this kind of gurgling sound as it dies immediately on the spot.
Laura: Oh, what?
Marisha: Oh, what?
Ashley: Oh, what?
Liam: And I use my bonus action to hide.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Do you wanna talk to the other one, since--
Laura: 62.
Matt: Okay, roll and make a stealth check.
Liam: Natural 20.
Orion: Nice.
Matt: All right.
Liam: See you later, motherfuckers.
Matt: The ogre is right there. There is the ogre on the ground, big squishy ogre.
Laura: What?
Travis: Big squishy ogre.
Matt: It's considered rough terrain, because now you have to go over this giant dead body in the middle of the-- All right, your turn.
Laura: I Hunter's Mark him, and I'm gonna shoot him with the explosive arrow.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Travis: I like it.
Laura: So I'm gonna see if it hits. I'm gonna use the blazing bowstring. That's a 22.
Matt: 22 definitely hits.
Laura: Okay. Also, blazing bowstring that gives me a plus d10. So, okay, 14 plus d10, wait, that's a ten? Yeah!
Liam: That's a ten.
Laura: Plus 19 and then Hunter's Mark! Plus six!
Liam: Ah yes!
Matt: 25.
Laura: 25, plus whatever the explosive damage is.
Matt: So! As you pull the arrow out, it's a little wonky, it's actually, what you rolled, it's a minus four penalty to hit with it, but you still manage to hit because it's a big creature, even though it's in very big darkness, you-- you know, in darkness you ignore partial cover.
Laura: Right!
Liam: Bellybutton.
Matt: You fire it. It arcs slightly, smacks in the side of its chest and stomach area. It's this cacophonous explosion sound that rocks the immediate vicinity.
Taliesin: Whoa! Yes!
Travis: Yes!
Matt: It takes an additional 2d8 points of explosive damage.
Marisha: Ooh!
Taliesin: Yeah!
Orion: Nice.
Matt: Nine points, and everything around it also takes the additional damage--
Laura: Oh shit!
Matt: -- the whole radius does.
Laura: Oh, I hope I didn't blow up the cart.
Matt: The cart-- the wood on the wheels had shatters and breaks, it falls to one side. What you see, some sort of a glass container that was at the back of the cart shatters and cracks.
Laura: (gasps) Oh no.
Marisha: Oh.
Taliesin: I'm still happy.
Laura: Welp?
Liam: Still pretty cool, still pretty cool.
Marisha: Collateral damage. It's bound to happen.
Matt: Top of the round. Tiberius.
Laura: Oh, and can I move away?
Matt: You can move if you want. Yeah.
Laura: Yeah, I move back.
Matt: Back to here?
Laura: Yeah. Sounds good.
Travis: Where's your pointer?
Matt: Use your pointer if you need it.
Laura: Oh right! Well, there.
Matt: All right. Tiberius, you're up first.
Orion: Very good! I'll take a few steps forward and be like, well, this is poppycock! And I'll shoot a Scorching Ray right at the dude.
Matt: All right, go for it, roll for the attack.
Laura: Does anybody speak Ogre? Nobody speaks Ogre, though. We can't talk to him.
Travis: No.
Liam: They're dumber than Grog is.
Orion: So what am I rolling?
Matt: Do you ignore partial cover?
Orion: Oh! Like can I just in general?
Matt: I mean, did you take that feat?
Orion: No.
Matt: No. Okay. So yeah. So you're rolling-- okay, so yeah. So what did you roll to hit?
Orion: I rolled all three at once. 'Cause I have to do one for each.
Matt: Right, yeah.
Orion: So I got a 12, a 13, and a 12.
Matt: Okay. All three rays unfortunately miss--
Orion: Damn it!
Matt: -- due to the darkness in this room it's very hard to see, other than the slight glow from the lava. So you fire all three rays, and you see them streak through, and each one gives off just enough light from the actual flaming ray to glow to the vicinity, but not the actual target. You see them both streak off and slam the wall on the opposite side.
Orion: Wait, do I add my dex on those?
Matt: You add your spell modifier.
Orion: (whispers) What's my spell modifier?
Matt: It's on top of your spell page!
Orion: Oh! Oh, no, I'm sorry, 20-- plus nine on all that.
Matt: Good to know.
Orion: Yeah, sorry.
Matt: All three hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Orion: Okay.
Matt: There you go.
Orion: Okay, first one does five--
Matt: It's his first time casting spells, guys. (mouths) It's not.
Travis: Yeah.
Orion: -- plus five, ten! I rarely do this one, kids.
Liam: It's part of his charm.
Orion: Ten on the first one.
Matt: All right.
Orion: 17 on the second one. And 17 on the second one.
Laura: He's so dead!
Matt: Okay, is there a saving throw for half damage?
Orion: No! I mean, 12 on the third one.
Matt: Is there a saving throw on this one, or is it just straight damage?
Orion: Yeah, straight damage.
Matt: Okay, cool, gotcha. All right.
Orion: Yes!
Matt: All right, so you, you blast the ogre with three. As each explosion hits, you see the rippling of its kind of grotesque flesh from the impact, the third one blasting off a portion of its shoulder, exposing this meaty bone and blood. It gives out this horrible (roars) into the tunnel itself, causing just the atmosphere to shake, as bits of stone begin to rumble and fall from the ceiling. All right, that ends your turn?
Orion: Yeah!
Matt: Still standing. Barely. It's now its turn.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: It steps away.
Liam: (whispers) You can't see me.
Laura: Over the dead body of his brethren.
Matt: To that point. It's just going to charge through, as all it can see is the figures in the distance.
Marisha: Pick me.
Matt: That's where it is. At which point, the cart seems to shift slightly.
Travis: Oh shit.
Laura: Oh no, what did we do?
Liam: Oh dear, something's coming out of the jar.
Marisha: What did we open?
Laura: Oh, god. We let something out.
Matt: You can see something slowly-- dark something--
Orion: I thought it was going to be a good thing!
Matt: -- amorphous and liquid in nature beginning to shift in the shadow.
Marisha: Oh, great.
Laura: Does it-- Oh no-- Is it on fire so we can see--
Liam: No.
Laura: -- is it on fire so we can see what it is?
Matt: No.
Liam: No.
Taliesin: Oh my god!
Laura: The cart wasn't on fire?
Liam: It's dangerous! It's dangerous! It's fucking dangerous!
Matt: It's just this giant, black, liquid--
Marisha: What is that?
Matt: -- ooze-like creature.
Liam: It's black ooze. It's dangerous!
Marisha: We just opened Pandora's box.
Laura: This is really, really bad!
Liam: It's fucking dangerous.
Laura: I'm sorry I exploded it.
Marisha: Great. That's good. Good.
Liam: Stay away from it. Stay away from it. Stay away from it.
Travis: So go wrestle it?
Ashley: So go jump in it, is what you're saying.
Liam: French kiss that shit!
Travis: It's mine!
Laura: (whispers) Don't attack it.
Travis: Don't attack it?
Laura: I'm scared of it.
Marisha: Black ooze.
Liam: Ranged attacks.
Matt: All right.
Laura: What does a black ooze do?
Liam: Fire and ranged attacks.
Marisha: How do I handle that?
Matt: So! That brings us to--
Taliesin: Fire?
Liam: Think!
Matt: Scanlan. Scanlan.
Laura: Oh no, oh god, Scanlan.
Matt: I know you're out there, Scanlan.
Laura: Do something amazing, Scanlan!
Liam: Sing, Sam! Sing!
Matt: Scanlan's going to go ahead and sing a song of inspiration to-- I'd say Grog just in case he needs to-
Taliesin: (sings) When we have to fight the ooze, you'll never have to lose.
Travis: What?
Laura: You received an inspiration.
Travis: Oh good, yeah, thank you. It's an eight, right?
Matt: Yeah, it's a d8 inspiration dice.
Laura: I want some food. I'm so hungry.
Liam: (sings) We're up all night in the dark, we're up all night in the dark.
Taliesin: (sing) We're up all night in the dark.
Marisha: (sing) We're up all night in the dark.
Orion: Is that what Sam would do?
Matt: Scanlan is then going to cast Invisibility on himself as an immediate self-sustaining reaction.
Liam: Oh shit, the music! The music!
Matt: That brings us to Vex!
Laura: Me?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Ranged attack, ranged attack.
Laura: Okay, on the thingie?
Marisha: Pew pew.
Orion: Take out the ogre first.
Laura: Okay. Well I'm gonna Lightning Bolt the black ooze!
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Sounds good.
Laura: Okay. Which--
Matt: So you Lightning Arrow.
Laura: Yes, I do. Okay. Oh, and, oh, the other-- never mind, that other guy's still Hunter's Marked. Okay.
Marisha: Well, yeah.
Liam: Hit it, hit it, hit it.
Laura: Okay, that's good.
Liam: Yes, it is!
Laura: That's a 19 plus-- that's a regular attack bonus, right?
Liam: It's a crit.
Laura: Was it?
Liam: Isn't 19-20 crit? That's just for me.
Matt: No, that's just for you.
Laura: That's just for you, yo.
Matt: Yeah, so that hits.
Laura: Okay. So.
Marisha: What if it's like a sentient alien lifeform?
Ashley: This music is so stressful!
Laura: Okay, 4d8 of lightning damage.
Marisha: You know, like some Spiderman shit.
Matt: Go ahead and roll the arrow damage.
Marisha: Some alien lifeform shit.
Taliesin: Well, we should kill it.
Laura: Oh, okay.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: Just kidding, I'm just so excited! 11.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Okay. And the 4d8 of lightning damage.
Matt: As the arrow disappears into its form--
Laura: No.
Matt: -- the bolt of energy, as you pull out the arrow and release it, it sparks and you can see the blue energy kind of streaking behind the arrow. It plunges into this thick, black, gooey mass and as it does, the lightning just gets absorbed into its form.
Travis: Oh, shit balls.
Matt: It sits for a second, shakes and quivers, and then splits.
Marisha: Oh! No.
Laura: Splits?
Liam: Yeah, it splits into smaller ones. Smaller sizes.
Matt: Dividing into two separate smaller slimes.
Taliesin: No!
Laura: What is this thing?
Matt: Seemingly unaffected by the damage of the lightning. Other than the fact that you altered its form slightly.
Laura: Great. Cool. Awesome.
Matt: So, do you wish to move?
Laura: Oh, yeah! I back the eff up. Actually, should-- yeah, yeah. I'm gonna back up. To there sounds good.
Matt: All right! That brings us to-- Vax, you're up.
Liam: All right, I'm gonna run up to the back of Tall and Ugly, and try to stab him. I'm gonna do the reach-around again, and try to stab him in the eyes.
Orion: The ol' reach-around.
Ashley: The ol' reach-around.
Liam: And I'm hidden-- I'm stealth already, I think, right?
Orion: Courteous!
Matt: You are, yes.
Travis: It's like his character move.
Taliesin: The stealthy reach-around.
Travis: Action figure Vax'ahlia.
Liam: So the first attack is an 18.
Taliesin: The stealthy reach-around.
Laura: That's Vax'ildan.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: Sorry. Vax'ildan.
Liam: Okay, Sneak Attack, here we go.
Travis: The signature reach-around move!
Liam: For the eyeballs. Two plus seven is--
Laura: I'm sorry I let the ooze loose.
Taliesin: It's okay.
Liam: 40. 52.
Matt: 52. As you reach behind, the daggers plunge into it, and the ogre lumbering over doesn't have any more to its life. Its jaw just goes slack as it releases the last bit of air in its lungs, tumbling forward, piling onto his friend.
Liam: As it does, I want to use my bonus action to spring off his shoulders towards my friends.
Matt: Okay. Okay.
Laura: That's good.
Matt: This direction? All right, go ahead and make an acrobatics check.
Liam: Sure.
Laura: Over the lava pit.
Travis: Kill it.
Laura: Don't fall in the lava pit.
Liam: That's a 15.
Matt: 15, okay. You barely manage to catch your footing. Thank god you didn't roll a one. That would've been very bad. This ogre then plummets to the ground, now piling on top of his friend.
Laura: Okay, that's good.
Matt: So now that whole section there is considered rough terrain. All right, that brings us to Percy!
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to try something weird, here.
Travis: Oh no.
Taliesin: Where am I? Okay. I'm going to step forward and to the right a bit. Just sort of joining this little-- like getting right in here. And I'm going to try and shoot, and this is gonna sound weird, but as I'm running I'm going to-- Actually, back me up to about there.
Matt: There?
Taliesin: I'm going to try and shoot about right here, I'm gonna try and unleash the lava to send the lava-- to see if I can get it to start flowing towards. Does that make sense?
Matt: I will tell you, the pool of lava right there isn't brimming really close to the surface.
Taliesin: Oh, it's just down?
Matt: It would take a significant impact to carve anything that would release it.
Taliesin: Okay, well--
Matt: It's self-contained.
Taliesin: -- I've come forward enough, I'm gonna take a shot at one of these guys, then.
Matt: Okay. This one, or this one?
Taliesin: That one.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll for attack--
Taliesin: I'm gonna try something else. I'm gonna try an ice shot.
Matt: Ice shot. Okay.
Taliesin: 15?
Matt: 15?
Liam: (sneezes dramatically)
Laura: Bless you.
Matt: 15 hits!
Taliesin: Oh my god. All right, and that's a--
Travis: 15 hits.
Laura: 15 hits.
Travis: Let's just take it.
Laura: Well, what else are we gonna do with it?
Taliesin: -- that's 15 points of damage, plus six points of ice damage.
Matt: Okay. The bullet pierces his form. You can see a part of its gelatinous, physical structure quiver. The ice explosion, you see go off, and just get absorbed into the gelatinous form.
Marisha: Fuck.
Taliesin: Fuck!
Matt: Seemingly unaffected by the additional damage. That's your first shot. You get two shots, don't you?
Taliesin: That's right. Oh, good god.
Marisha: But it didn't split, right?
Matt: Nope.
Orion: Nope.
Marisha: That's cool. It's a perk.
Taliesin: Yeah, no, that's-- Okay. I'm going to attempt to-- Is there any loose-looking rocks that are up above? Or is there anything that looks like, if I gave it a push, would fall down, from up above?
Matt: This tunnel looks pretty, at this point, pretty cleanly carved out.
Laura: What about the areas I exploded?
Matt: Over there? I mean, there's parts of the rock, but the explosion was more damaging to things that were fragile--
Laura: Okay, okay.
Matt: -- the stonework is pretty solid.
Taliesin: I'm gonna take another shot at the same one and see what happens.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Taliesin: 20, that hits.
Matt: Yep! Damage.
Taliesin: Not a lot. That's seven points of damage.
Matt: Okay. Gotcha. Both shots into it. You see its form kind of quiver at the impact, but it's still slowly slithering forward. Now comes to Keyleth!
Marisha: Okay. I wanna move, kind of be like, whoops, sorry, 'scuse me, pardon me, and come like heresies. Would you say that I'm 30 feet away from that guy?
Matt: Just barely. Like, he's just in the cusp of 30 feet from you.
Marisha: Will my Thorn Whip reach him? My 30-foot-range Thorn Whip?
Matt: You can certainly try!
Marisha: I'm gonna try and Thorn Whip him!
Matt: Okay!
Liam: (Cosby voice) You see, the black goo thing--
Matt: What's the Thorn Whip do?
Liam: -- is not so easy to kill. (all laugh)
Marisha: Huh?
Matt: What's the Thorn Whip do? Read the spell for me.
Ashley: Too soon?
Laura: Too soon?
Marisha: Well, it does 2d6 damage, it's a 30-foot range, and it pulls 10 feet. Notes I have on it-- Okay-- piercing damage-- if they are large or smaller, you pull the creature up to ten feet closer.
Matt: What type of damage is it?
Marisha: Piercing.
Matt: Okay. Gotcha. All right. So, you hit, go ahead and roll damage.
Marisha: I hit. I don't hit. That's funny. Okay.
Matt: You rolled a 20, right?
Marisha: I didn't roll yet.
Matt: Oh, you didn't roll yet. Sorry.
Marisha: No.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and roll to hit.
Marisha: What do I add, my spell modifier?
Matt: Yep.
Marisha: 18.
Matt: Yeah, you hit.
Laura: Woo!
Ashley: Woo!
Matt: So, go ahead and roll damage.
Marisha: 19, sorry, it's actually 19.
Matt: That still hits! It doesn't move very fast, it's a little easy to hit.
Laura: Okay, that's good.
Matt: All right, takes its damage.
Marisha: One piercing damage, but I pull him ten feet closer to me. Does he go into the lava?
Matt: Gets pushed just ever so slightly into the hole. As it does, you can see this blackish steam and smoke begin to billow up from where it hits, and it (growls).
Laura: Good!
Matt: -- begins to quiver as you're kind of yanking it back with the Thorn Whip.
Liam: What was that sound it made again?
Matt: (growls) (all laugh)
Matt: It takes 2d10 points of damage--
Laura: Woo!
Matt: -- from the impact of the lava. That's an additional 17 points of fire damage to it.
Taliesin: That's nice.
Liam: Yes!
Laura: Fire damage!
Ashley: Nice!
Liam: Aw, yes!
Laura: Kill it with fire!
Marisha: And I've got him on a leash now.
Liam: Burn it!
Matt: You do. Is it considered grappled?
Marisha: Nope.
Matt: Then that would be the end of the attack. The spell dissipates after that.
Marisha: Oh, okay.
Matt: You've gotta do it again the next turn.
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: Hey, that was pretty good.
Laura: Yep.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn, Pike, you're up!
Ashley: Okay. So, question. I want to use something I think that I can use called-- this may be stupid, so I have another option if this is dumb.
Travis: That's what it's called?
Laura: (laughs)
Ashley: Yes.
Orion: That's a weird spell!
Liam: So long!
Ashley: Something called 'Insect Plague'.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Ooh, yeah!
Ashley: Which you can use as a ranged attack in a 20-foot-radius sphere?
Matt: Yes. So, you do it at range, and it creates a 20-foot radius that does this.
Ashley: Okay, and then it's a 1d10-- creature takes 4d10 piercing damage-- oh, on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Cool! So there's that, yeah.
Liam: Very Old Testament!
Ashley: So, I think--
Matt: Do you wanna move--
Laura: Yeah, do it!
Ashley: Okay, you know, let's give it a try!
Laura: And then we can see what it does to creatures within its zone!
Matt: Where do you wanna go, girl?
Ashley: Okay, so, where am I? I'm sorry, I can't see.
Matt: You're right over here. It's your gold base.
Ashley: So, where do I need to be to do it-- like over here?
Liam: Get closer.
Laura: Maybe up next to the ogre dead.
Liam: Gotta run up.
Matt: Okay. One, two, three, four. That's about as close as you can get there, yeah.
Ashley: Okay. So can I still get it there?
Matt: Yeah, you can cast it. Where do you want to put the radius?
Ashley: Are these all five?
Orion: Yeah.
Matt: These are all five-foot squares.
Ashley: Okay, so can I--
Liam: I'd just like to point out, this is like the Avengers trailer, where all the heroes run out and jump at the same time. (all laugh)
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah. Yeah, you can get these both from there.
Ashley: Okay, so I'll try to get them both.
Matt: Okay, all right, so--
Ashley: So then ten.
Matt: So you go ahead and roll the damage.
Ashley: Okay, so how-- Wait, how many do I roll, again? At fifth level?
Matt: You're casting this as a fifth-level spell?
Ashley: Well, maybe I shouldn't--
Matt: It's up to you.
Laura: Yeah, do it.
Ashley: Okay, I'll do it.
Liam: Do it, do it, try it.
Ashley: But do I save a healing?
Liam: Do it.
Laura: Go for it, Pike.
Liam: Come on, you're a warrior.
Matt: It's up to you, Pike. You do what you gotta do.
Ashley: Okay, so-- Cool, one.
Laura: Ten.
Liam: Ten.
Ashley: Ten, 11.
Laura: 18.
Ashley: 19.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: So how many do I roll? That was three--
Matt: It gets to make a saving throw to see if it gets half damage.
Ashley: So I roll another one then--
Laura: Yeah, four. She gets four.
Matt: What's--
Ashley: I roll, I roll four. Hold on. 19.
Laura: 25.
Liam: 25.
Ashley: 25.
Matt: Okay, what's the DC? What's your spell DC at the top of your spell sheet?
Ashley: Eight plus-- Or-- No, sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry.
Matt: DC should be--
Ashley: 16.
Liam: That's better.
Matt: 16, okay, one makes its save, the other doesn't.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: So what's the total damage?
Laura: 25.
Ashley: 25.
Matt: Okay, so one takes 25, one takes 13.
Orion: Cool.
Taliesin: Wow.
Matt: Piercing damage. Got it. And, just, insects appear in the area, doing that much damage. Does that stay? Or does that go away at the end of your turn?
Ashley: Let's see here.
Matt: What's the duration?
Ashley: Concentration. Up to ten minutes.
Matt: So you can keep it there if you want to.
Laura: Ooh.
Ashley: I'll just keep it.
Matt: It just does damage every turn to everything in that radius.
Ashley: Awesome, let's just keep it.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: I'm just really concentrating.
Matt: That ends your turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Right, I would like to pull the flaming hammer out of the bag of holding.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: And I would like to run at the-- this little-- this guy.
Orion: No, you'll get in the insect cloud.
Travis: What?
Orion: You'll get in the insect cloud.
Matt: All right. One, two, three, four.
Laura: Stay away from the insect cloud.
Travis: I forgot there was an insect cloud.
Matt: Five, six, seven, eight. That's as far as you can get, currently.
Travis: Oh, because there are bodies in the way?
Matt: Because of the rough terrain, and you have to jump over the bodies to get there.
Laura: Wait, but my natural ability--
Travis: Then if that's as far as I can get, I would like to take the hooded lantern I have out of the bag of holding and throw it--
Laura: Difficult terrain does not slow my group's travel when this is my favored terrain.
Marisha: Ooh! (all cheer)
Travis: Yes!
Matt: Nice one. Boom, boom, boom. So you just go charging up overtop the ogre bodies, leaping, coming down with the-- hammer, you said?
Travis: Yes, with the flaming hammer.
Liam: Oh man, you the real MVP.
Travis: -- activating the flaming properties of rage, and urine, and death.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Flame on. (all laugh)
Orion: Rage, urine, and death.
Liam: Wow.
Laura: Don't get touched by it. Don't let it touch you.
Travis: We'll see.
Ashley: Don't let it touch you.
Liam: Work those rules.
Matt: Go for it. So go ahead and roll for attack. You have three attacks with this, at--
Marisha: Rage, urine, and death.
Matt: Are you frenzying or regular rage?
Travis: Raging, raging, rage. Just regular rage.
Matt: Okay, so you get two attacks.
Travis: Yeah. 19.
Matt: 19 hits.
Travis: And 12.
Matt: 12 also hits. (all cheer)
Travis: Awesome. And this is a 1d--
Matt: And damage, are you using it two-handed?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: 1d10 damage.
Travis: 1d10.
Matt: Plus whatever the fire damage is on the weapon.
Travis: That can't be right.
Matt: What did you roll?
Marisha: What? What the dice rolled?
Travis: 1d10? Is this the right dice?
Taliesin: If you rolled zero, you rolled a ten.
Laura: If it's a zero, it's a ten.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: It's a 30.
Laura: Oh, that's a three. He rolled the--
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: I was like, 30!
Matt: So, three plus your proficiency modifier, which is four.
Travis: Yeah. Seven.
Matt: No, this is for damage, so the damage would be plus your strength modifier.
Travis: Oh, four.
Matt: Yeah, so four still. So seven.
Travis: And plus seven for rage.
Matt: Plus two for rage.
Travis: Plus two for rage.
Matt: Yeah, so whatever the bonus is to your greataxe--
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: What's that?
Travis: Oh, it's-- to the greataxe is seven when I'm raging.
Matt: So then ten points of damage, then roll the fire damage as well.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: How is he keeping all of this in his mind? It's like a computer in his brain.
Laura: I know.
Travis: Is that a 1d10 also? 1d10?
Matt: It should say on the actual magical item.
Travis: Yep, yep. 1d6.
Matt: So 1d6 additional fire damage.
Travis: Five.
Matt: All right, so 15 points of damage total from the first strike. Go ahead and roll damage from the second one.
Travis: Oh, Jesus. Seven.
Matt: So 14, plus an additional 1d6.
Liam: Grog, math hard.
Travis: Three.
Matt: All right, cool. All right, so as you come running over, leaping in the air, over the ogre bodies, you then slam the hammer once in the side, the fire catching on the metal, on the black iron as it streaks through the air, lighting up the cavern around you.
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: You guys see this, like, red arc, as Grog comes slamming down into the ooze.
Orion: Fire hammer!
Matt: First one, it hits, boom, smacks, the flames ignite, and the impact, you see it kind of freaks out and quivers backwards, screeching sound. As it does, there's a splash of the black ichor that hits your shoulders--
Laura: (gasps) No!
Matt: -- and you feel it burn and bite into your torso. You take ten points of acid damage.
Travis: Oh, shit.
Laura: Acid.
Ashley: Acid.
Matt: You reach back, not even thinking in the frenzy in your brain, you feel like, just seeing blood and red in your eyes, as you slam down your second strike.
Ashley: Grog is gonna start tripping.
Matt: You feel the second impact. Once again, you feel the spray of black across your body. You take an additional ten points of acid damage.
Travis: Up close sucks.
Liam: That's nothing for Grog, that's nothing.
Ashley: Nothing, nothing.
Marisha: Nothing, he likes it, feels good.
Travis: I'm pretty low.
Matt: That ends Grog's turn.
Laura: You're low? On health? Have you not healed at all?
Liam: No, we stayed up and kept watch.
Marisha: Just helped with that itch you couldn't scratch.
Laura: Jeez Louise.
Travis: No, I'm fine.
Matt: On this turn, this one pulls out of the lava--
Laura: No.
Matt: Takes an additional 2d10 from being in at the start of its turn. An additional eight damage, and moves up, both of them flank over to Grog.
Travis: Come to me, woodland creatures.
Matt: Both of them attempting to strike you from each side. As you're flanked, that is a 20 versus armor class.
Travis: That will hit.
Matt: And a 21 versus armor class.
Travis: That'll hit, too.
Marisha: You're being attacked by jello.
Matt: All right, both of the creatures, they (oozing sound) up next to you. These pseudopods kind of come billowing out, slamming into you with the force of an extremely thick, heavy battering ram. Both hit you for-- let's see, here--
Travis: You broke in their glass casket.
Matt: One hits you for 12 points of damage--
Laura: Oh.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: The other hits you for 14 points of damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Remember, you're raging, so that's halved.
Travis: Oh, halved. Both of those?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Awesome.
Liam: Tank.
Ashley: He still has more than me.
Matt: However, both impacts slamming into your body, the leftover sludge begins to eat away and corrode the flesh upon impact. You take from both sides-- non-halved, because it is not slashing, bludgeoning, or piercing damage-- you take a total of 56 points of acid damage.
Taliesin: What?
Ashley: What?
Laura: What?
Matt: From both slams.
Travis: That's gross.
Laura: (gasps) Grog's unconscious.
Travis: No, I'm not.
Laura: You're not?
Liam: Double that? Double that, or that?
Matt: No, from both sides. 28 from each.
Ashley: How many have you got?
Travis: 14.
Laura: Oh my god.
Travis: Okay, so little piles of shit have got huevos.
Ashley: Wait, and I can't--
Matt: Clarota moves from here, up to here.
Laura: Clarota, save us!
Marisha: Really bad jello. It's, like, fridge experiment jello.
Taliesin: Coffee jello.
Marisha: Coffee jello?
Ashley: Grog!
Travis: That's me, all smart with the fire hammer.
Matt: Hey, it did damage, didn't it?
Travis: It certainly did something.
Matt: It certainly did something Clarota is going to move forward and is going to attempt a-- It's kind of close-- He is going to attempt a Lightning Bolt against this guy here.
Marisha: No.
Laura: Don't do a Lightning Bolt! What? Why would Clarota use a Lightning Bolt when he saw that the lightning did not work for me?
Matt: Clarota did not see.
Laura: Ugh.
Marisha: Clarota didn't see? Where was Clarota?
Matt: Way back here.
Liam: He has to look. He was hanging back.
Laura: Clarota is trying to screw with us.
Marisha: Why was he trailing? What the fuck?
Liam: Nah, he was hanging back.
Marisha: He's a slacker.
Liam: He's weak.
Marisha: He's a fucking slacker.
Orion: That's right, he's weak.
Liam: He's got this, but he doesn't have this. He's weak, he's hanging back.
Marisha: All right.
Liam: What is the deal with the mind flayer?
Matt: I would recommend not arguing with the DM.
Orion: Right.
Travis: Yeah, right.
Marisha: I'm not arguing with the DM, I'm calling Clarota a slacker.
Matt: Clarota, as it released the bolt of energy, it streaks past, through the air. It arcs into the side of the entity, which then absorbs it. Clarota's eyes go wide for a second. Nervous, it looks at its hands, and puts them back underneath its robe. As it does--
Laura: Fudge!
Marisha: Damn it, Clarota.
Matt: The entity divides once again.
Laura: God! Darn it.
Matt: Into two more--
Laura: What is that?
Travis: Oh, shit.
Laura: What is happening?
Travis: Balls.
Taliesin: Oh, god.
Matt: That ends its turn. At this point in time, now the loud ruckus has been glaring through this tunnel--
Liam: Shit.
Matt: You hear (clicking sound).
Liam: Shit.
Travis: Ah, not an umber hulk.
Laura: Is it another one of those--
Matt: A pair of clacking sounds. And you, as soon as you look up at the ceiling and you see two large creatures clinging to the ceiling, scurrying across with these strange hooked hands, before both immediately leap down from the ceiling.
Travis: We're in big trouble.
Taliesin: Jesus Christ.
Liam: Oh, man.
Laura: Are you freaking kidding me?
Marisha: What are those? What is that?
Laura: He's trying to kill us.
Orion: Oh.
Laura: What is this?
Matt: These two large, armored, beak-faced subterranean creatures with shells on their backs and giant hooked arms leap down from the ceiling.
Laura: We're gonna die.
Matt: One is going to attempt to strike with both of its hook attacks at Pike.
Laura: Pike isn't here!
Matt: This is one is moving over Tiberius.
Liam: Oh, Tiberius, our soft, vulnerable spot.
Orion: What are you talking about?
Matt: So, against Pike, that is 21.
Laura: Hits.
Travis: Hits.
Matt: And 13.
Travis: Misses.
Laura: Misses.
Matt: All right, you take 11 points of piercing damage.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Wherever she is. And the other one misses, clanging against the armor. The hook scrapes across metal, leaving this extremely loud sound. The other one goes twice against Tiberius. That is a 16.
Orion: A 17.
Matt: And a nine. Both miss. Barely getting out of the way. This giant, large, armored creature.
Ashley: Falling from the ceiling.
Matt: Right there, take a look-- All right, that ends that, so top of the round. Tiberius, you're up.
Orion: Oh, I look at him with a funky grin.
Matt: All right.
Orion: It's a funky one. How much does he weigh? 800 pounds?
Matt: Pretty heavy. Say probably close to 500-600 pounds.
Orion: Ah, beautiful. I cast Telekinesis and I hurl him over my head and chuck him at the other one. I want to get him away from Pike. I don't think I can throw him that far. How far away is he from the lava, actually?
Matt: It's about right there. It's about 35 feet.
Ashley: I'm okay. I have a lot of armor.
Laura: She's good.
Orion: Then I'll try that instead. I'll try to slam dunk.
Matt: He makes a saving throw. That fails entirely. So the creature in front of you lifts up in the air, and starts flailing about with its hooks, trying to find some purchase in the ceiling. You toss it over, and it lands squarely into the pool of lava in the center of the tunnel. You hear screeching in pain as it begins trying to find his way out. Okay.
Liam: Yes! Yes!
Marisha: I like lava pools. I like lava pools.
Matt: As it's fully submerged, all right, that is 45 points of fire damage on it immediately as it's slowly sinking into the pool of lava.
Travis: He starts sinking into the pool of lava?
Ashley: Whoa.
Matt: Tiberius just Telekinesis-ed him up in the air, and threw it into the lava pool.
Travis: Yes.
Laura: Good job.
Orion: I use two sorcerer points, and with the other one I do Glacial Blast at the other guy.
Matt: The other one there? Okay. Go ahead and roll-- Add your--
Laura: Damn, Tiberius is getting really freaking cool. Badass.
Orion: Spell attack, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Orion: 13 plus two. 15.
Matt: 15? Right now, because of the level of darkness in the room, and because of its distance from you-- You just managed to fire, just out of the range of the creature. It hits the wall behind him, leaving the slick of ice across the stone wall behind it, but unfortunately not the actual creature.
Orion: Okay. Okay. Oh! Right behind it? Do I see myself missing too? Fine. As I'm missing I'll form it into a spike at the end where the walls hit.
Matt: Okay!
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: There is now an ice spike jutting out of the wall right there. All right, that ends your turn, unless you want to move. Still got your move action.
Laura: Ooh. Nice!
Orion: I'm going to-- where's the-- that way.
Matt: This way.
Orion: Out the hell-- with the stuff-- yes.
Matt: Now it would be the ogres, but they're all dead. (all cheer)
Matt: Scanlan's up.
Travis: Yeah, come on, Scanlan!
Matt: Sees Pike in great danger. Sings a quick little ditty to go ahead and give an inspiration dice to Pike. So you get a d8.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: To help you with any sort of attack rolls, any saving throws, ability checks.
Ashley: How about for healing? Does it help with healing? Can I add it to anything?
Matt: Just attack rolls, saving throws, and checks.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: Scanlan is going to attempt to dominate the monster using his Dominate Creature spell. Saving throw. It does not make it. The creature that was harrowing Pike suddenly drops its claws for a second, turns away from you, and starts looking back towards the oozes and Grog. That brings us to Vex. You're up.
Laura: Okay. Do I have line-of-sight on the other ooze that's attacking Grog? The big one?
Matt: The big one over here? You do. It's dark, and you have no light source currently, so you can try a shot, but it's going to be at disadvantage.
Laura: Okay, then I guess I should just--
Liam: Half-elves see in dim light up to 60 feet. Does that pool of lava give anything?
Matt: It gives a very dull glow to the room. It's enough where you can see there is something there. You can even take a shot as opposed to not having any chance.
Laura: What about the little ooze? One of the little oozes?
Matt: Same possibility because you're currently blocked by this creature that's currently sinking into the lava.
Laura: I guess I should attack the one that's in the lava.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Okay. Well. Oh! Can I-- Is he within ten or five feet of the other, the little ooze?
Matt: No, he's ten feet from it.
Laura: Okay, then I'll just attack him with my-- I'll just attack him.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: This is lame, that's a lame--
Travis: Do it!
Matt: So you have two attacks.
Liam: Oh.
Laura: Oh right, two attacks. 13?
Matt: 13 misses, unfortunately.
Laura: Pathetic. 20-something.
Matt: That hits. So the first one, you fire towards it, except the arrow just (whoosh) into the lava and (puff).
Laura: All right, cool.
Matt: With a slight puff of smoke.
Laura: Can I have used my flaming bowstring on the second one?
Matt: On the second one? If you'd like to.
Laura: Sweet. Oh! And I Hunter's Marked him, because I can do that.
Matt: All right, so you moved the Hunter's Mark over, he is now your quarry.
Laura: 13.
Matt: Go ahead and roll the additional fire damage and your quarry damage.
Laura: 13. 19 and 22 damage.
Matt: 22 damage, all righty. The one arrow disappears. The second one, as you release it from the bowstring, you feel the slight tingle of the arcane energy released into the arrow. The arrow bursts into flame as it releases from your bow, streaking and piercing the front of its hide as it's trying to claw its way out.
Orion: Nice!
Matt: Both of its claws are at the edges of the lava, and it's pulling itself, screeching, its mouth and eyes wild with the severe pain it's feeling as it's slowly melting him from the bottom. The arrow (impact sound) into its shoulder and burst into flame. It's now freaking out. It looks like it's having a really, really rough time making its way out.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Do you want to move, or you going to stay where you are?
Laura: I'm gonna back up and get against the wall. Oh wait, that's me!
Matt: That's you there.
Laura: Oh, I was thinking I was Keyleth, I'm gonna come up next to Keyleth.
Matt: All right, so right there?
Laura: No, against the wall.
Matt: All right, there?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay, I'm gonna run over the dude in the lava, I'm gonna jump on him, probably make an acrobatics check and land right around here, between the two little slimes.
Matt: Acrobatics check.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Don't let the slimes hit you.
Marisha: Vault the lava.
Liam: It's acrobatics. 22.
Marisha: Vault that lava.
Matt: You jump, impact, and barely land next to them.
Laura: Oh my gosh.
Liam: Now, because they are, because Grog is--
Matt: It does get one swipe of attack of opportunity on you as you pass by.
Liam: Fine.
Matt: That is going to be a 20.
Liam: Okay. It's fine.
Matt: So, as you leap off of it, its hook swipes up towards you. You go ahead and take 14 points of piercing damage.
Laura: That's a big hit!
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Okay. Okay and since I land, since Grog is right up against those two--
Matt: I will eat this later.
Liam: I can Sneak Attack one or both of them, so I'm gonna hit the one closest to the party first.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: This is Sneak Attack.
Matt: All righty.
Liam: This is, this is-- It's an 18.
Matt: All right, that hits.
Liam: Three plus seven is-- this is my flametongue dagger, so that's-- Oh, hold on, no, I don't know what it is yet. Where's my pencil? I'm sending my dice everywhere. Nine plus six, ten, 15, 18, 40. 58 on one slime.
Matt: What is the piercing damage from the dagger?
Liam: The piercing damage?
Matt: Daggers are piercing, so yeah.
Liam: So I don't know. What is that? Is that what's besides the Sneak Attack damage?
Matt: Thank you kindly. Mysterious appearance of paper towels.
Liam: That's 18. If it's doubled for the Sneak Attack? I don't know. It's nine, without a Sneak Attack. 18 if it's Sneak Attack.
Matt: Right. Well, it's a Sneak Attack, because it is flanking.
Liam: So 18 for Sneak Attack.
Matt: Okay, got you. Cool.
Liam: That's first dagger.
Matt: All right, so second dagger. Go ahead and--
Liam: Second dagger attacks the other one. I just turn around and sink down into the other one for 16 with the keen, yeah, 16 with the keen dagger.
Matt: That hits, go ahead and roll damage.
Liam: Okay, and this is probably not Sneak Attack at this point, or is it? I don't know.
Matt: No, you'll do only one Sneak Attack per round.
Liam: Okay, eight.
Matt: Eight, gotcha. So as you rush, you leap off, take the scratch in the air from the hook horror creature. You land on the ground, slash one with your dagger, slash the other. Both slashes are almost simultaneous. As you hit, you feel your blades gain purchase in both creatures, and you look down at your arms as the horrible burning sensation filters onto your hands as the splash-back. You take a total of 20 points of acid damage from the melee attacks you took against the creatures.
Liam: 20, you said?
Matt: 20 total, yes.
Laura: (whispers) Oh my god.
Liam: Okay. All right.
Matt: All right. That brings us to Percy.
Ashley: You're at 24? Fuck.
Liam: It's all right.
Taliesin: Where's the laser?
Marisha: So they're all still alive, all the oozes are still alive.
Taliesin: Laser.
Marisha: It was around here somewhere. You had it last.
Travis: What are you looking for?
Laura: What? What's happening?
Taliesin: Oh, never mind.
Marisha: Did I have it? Oh, wait, wait, wait, wait.
Taliesin: Yeah you had it, aha!
Matt: Percy, what you got?
Taliesin: I wanna move just slightly to my right. Just over there so I can get a clear shot at the oozes.
Matt: Okay, so right there?
Taliesin: Yeah, about right there, so I'm not going to hit anybody.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm gonna take two shots at the little oozes. At the--
Matt: This one here?
Taliesin: Yeah, that right little ooze.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Little ooze.
Taliesin: First shot. 27 to hit. And that does ten points of damage. And then I'm gonna take another shot at him, I'm going to take a fire shot. And I'm gonna take a negative five to hit. And that's 14.
Matt: Hits.
Taliesin: So that's 15 plus-- that's 23 points of damage plus three points of fire damage.
Matt: 26, nice.
Travis: Yeah, boy. Perce!
Marisha: On the little ooze?
Ashley: 26 points of damage?
Laura: Woot woot!
Travis: Wow!
Taliesin: Plus fire.
Laura: Plus fire.
Travis: Get on it, nasty.
Liam: Pow, pow, pow, pow.
Matt: All right, that brings us to Keyleth.
Marisha: All the oozes are still alive?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Damn oozes. All right. I'm gonna do something crafty.
Travis: Yeah!
Ashley: Get it!
Matt: Gotta eat sometime, guys.
Marisha: I'm gonna bamf into an eagle.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: I'm gonna fly over-- I think I'm going to land right by here.
Matt: There?
Marisha: Uh-huh.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: And I'm gonna do Thunder Wave. Which is--
Matt: So you're coming out of eagle form?
Marisha: So I'm coming out of eagle form. I was just using the eagle to fly.
Matt: Okay, okay.
Marisha: Coming out of eagle form, and I'm gonna do my thunderpush. So I take my staff and I throw it down. Kerplash.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Today it's kerplash.
Travis: I buy kerplash.
Marisha: Kerplash!
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: All right! So what is the radius effect on that?
Marisha: It's a 15-foot cube and it pushes everything ten feet away from me. Directly away.
Matt: 15-foot cube, okay. So like this cube here?
Marisha: Sure. Yeah, a cube in front of me.
Matt: All right, cool. So, they both get saving throws.
Marisha: Not Grog, though. I'm gonna just--
Matt: You can do that. Okay, neither makes their saving throw. So go ahead and roll damage, or whatever it does.
Marisha: 2d8.
Matt: 2d8 to each. What is the damage type on that?
Marisha: Six. It just says damage and then they're pushed. I was--
Matt: Okay. So I'll go ahead and say it's thunder damage. All right, so they're pushed how long? Ten feet?
Marisha: Ten feet. Directly away from me.
Matt: Yeah. So they're pushed right there. Got it.
Marisha: I was hoping they would go into the lava.
Matt: Unfortunately, it's not far enough. Is that your turn?
Marisha: Yep!
Matt: All right. Pike!
Ashley: Okay, can I sprinter's boot over to Grog? Sorry, no glasses, guys. So I don't see where I am.
Travis: A boot?
Matt: You can, yes.
Ashley: Okay, so I'm going to Cure Wounds.
Matt: All right.
Ashley: 'Cause that's what I do.
Matt: It's what you do as a healer, yo.
Ashley: So let's see, 1d8 plus spell damage. Wait, so I'm gonna do it at fourth level, so that means I can roll how many times?
Matt: 4d8.
Ashley: Okay, so--
Matt: Plus five.
Ashley: Five, eight, 16.
Laura: Ooh! That's good! 24?
Ashley: 24. So you heal 24.
Travis: Thank you!
Matt: Nice.
Ashley: And then--
Laura: Plus, do you add that to anything?
Ashley: Well, he adds it to his 14 that he already has.
Matt: Sorry.
Ashley: And then, can I do anything else while I'm there?
Matt: No, bonus action to do the item, move, action to cast the spell.
Orion: No.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: So that's your turn.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: Well done. All right, that brings us to Grog.
Travis: Right, yeah. I would like to come out of my rage.
Matt: All right. So it's level two exhaustion.
Travis: For the first time ever.
Laura: Ever.
Liam: Wow. Not sure how I feel about that.
Travis: What do you-- where do you wanna go? Towards Keyleth or toward the-- Okay. I'd like to pick up Pike and run balls over this way.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Right towards this area.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I'm all on my own.
Travis: Well, yeah, look. It nearly killed me the one time I hit it.
Orion: You shouldn't be doing melee on things that can split in half to begin with.
Laura: We're gonna die.
Matt: All right, so you pick up Pike. Level two exhaustion, your speed is halved.
Laura: Oh no.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: So you can only move 20 feet.
Travis: Right.
Orion: You messed everything up.
Liam: Hey man, if I can't be a hero here, where am I gonna do it?
Orion: Oh, every other time is fine.
Travis: Do you want to stay? It doesn't really matter.
Matt: You grab her, you turn--
Travis: You want to stay over there?
Matt: -- run that way?
Travis: You know what? I'll--
Marisha: Aim for in front of the Scientology Center. It always goes over really well.
Travis: Do you just wanna stay?
Ashley: I'm gonna-- I'll stay, I'll stay.
Travis: I'll leave Pike where she is and I'll run up and flank Iceberg Lobsterface.
Matt: Right there?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, so, that's as far as you can get, unfortunately--
Travis: Okay.
Matt: -- 'cause you're double-fatigued.
Taliesin: My name in high school.
Matt: As you run past, both of those slimes--
Ashley: Double?
Marisha: Double-fatigue?
Taliesin: Iceberg Lobsterface.
Matt: -- flash out with pseudopods, as reactions.
Liam: I'm surrounded by shit.
Taliesin: It's what all the kids called me.
Matt: So, two attacks against you.
Taliesin: Long story.
Matt: That's a 22.
Travis: Yeah.
Ashley: Fuck!
Matt: And a 19.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: All right, so both slam you for 24 points of bludgeoning damage. You're not raged, so it's not halved.
Travis: Okay.
Laura: Ugh.
Matt: So 24 against you, with an additional 56 points of acid damage.
Ashley: Wait! What?
Travis: Unconscious!
Taliesin: Damn it.
Laura: Why didn't you get acid damage?
Marisha: Son of a bitch.
Matt: They haven't hit him yet. That was just Grog running away.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: Both of them getting attacks of opportunity on him, and both hitting.
Liam: I am surrounded by shit.
Ashley: Guys, guys, guys.
Matt: Grog falls face-first, right next-- right, like, literally cradling-- His unconscious body is cradling the two dead ogres right now.
Laura: No!
Matt: This slight sound of 'sss' as the acid is, like, sizzling and scarring his flesh.
Laura: Nobody attack the things up close!
Matt: That brings us to their turn.
Laura: Oh, no!
Liam: I'm going unconscious here, kids.
Laura: All of our heavy hitters are dead.
Matt: These three oozes turn. Actually, this one's going to move here--
Ashley: Oh, hello!
Matt: -- towards Pike.
Liam: (Tommy Wiseau voice) Oh, hi, Pike. (all laugh)
Matt: You get an attack of opportunity on it, if you like--
Laura: Oh, hit it!
Liam: Hit it? Yeah.
Matt: -- as it slips away.
Laura: Get it!
Taliesin: Get it!
Liam: Do I have to roll to do that? Right?
Matt: Yeah, you still have roll to hit it.
Liam: 26.
Matt: Hits.
Laura: Why is it going up there?
Ashley: You're gonna kill this thing!
Liam: 11.
Matt: 11?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Points of damage?
Liam: That's the damage. 11.
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: Oh, yeah yeah yeah.
Matt: All right, cool.
Ashley: What did you guys vote on?
Marisha: No shit.
Laura: Did they vote on this?
Ashley: Probably.
Matt: So, the one that's attacking you, Pike, that is a--
Laura: You guys suck.
Matt: -- 23, versus armor class.
Ashley: Yes, that hits. (all laugh)
Matt: All right. You take 12 points of bludgeoning damage from the impact of the pseudopod, with an additional 28 points of acid damage.
Liam: Son of a gun.
Marisha: Pseudopod?
Ashley: Okay, so an additional 28 on top of that.
Travis: You guys are dicks.
Matt: Yeah, so a total of 40 points of damage from the strike.
Ashley: I understand.
Marisha: Did he just call it a 'pseudopod'?
Liam: Masochists.
Matt: The other two are going to attack you.
Liam: Sure they are.
Matt: That's going to be a 19 versus armor class.
Liam: Yeah, that hits 'cause I'm at 19. Right? So that hits if I'm at 19?
Matt: It hits. Yeah. Okay. The other one is a 14, so that misses.
Liam: Okay, so I use Uncanny Dodge on the one that hit.
Marisha: Oh!
Matt: All right. So.
Taliesin: Nice!
Liam: Whoa!
Marisha: Yeah you do.
Matt: As you pull that away, you-- You take half-damage from the strike?
Liam: Half-damage. That's right.
Matt: All right, so that's-- this was a 40. Take 20 points of damage, total, from the bludgeoning and the acid.
Liam: Oh, I am rough, kids. I am rough.
Laura: Plus acid?
Matt: All right. That ends their turn.
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: Clarota--
Laura: Clarota, save us!
Matt: -- is going to step forward to there.
Liam: Use your magic, you strange flayer, you.
Laura: Do not use Lightning Bolt.
Marisha: Yeah. No Lightning Bolt, Clarota.
Matt: Clarota reaches forward, uses his own-- Taking a note from Tiberius, uses his Telekinesis spell. The arcanist marks on its body flare up, and as it does you can see this large creature--
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: -- gets lifted up, and slams on top of this hook horror--
Orion: Yes!
Liam: That's awesome.
Matt: -- pushing it further into the lava and doing additional acid damage to the hook horror, which--
Laura: Yeah! And it dies?
Orion: Damn hook whores!
Liam: (Cosby voice) You see--
Matt: -- which completely dissolves and melts the hook horror. (all cheer)
Travis: All right, Clarence!
Matt: As it pushes down, the ooze just touches the edge of the lava, not taking full damage from the impact, but just enough from the portion of it. LIAM (Jimmy Stewart voice) Clarence! Clarence!
Matt: Taking an additional five points of fire damage. All right, it's that one there. Great. All right, that brings us to the hook horror's turn, who is currently dominated by Scanlan. Is going to rush forward to the edge here, and strike twice at the--
Laura: Yeah, Scanlan!
Matt: -- creature in the lava. Both hit.
Travis: Yes!
Laura: I'm full.
Matt: It's prone. That deals six plus 14. Eight. All right. The hook horror that Scanlan's controlling slams its hooks down into the ooze, causing the ooze to get pushed further into the lava. As you see its form begin to dissipate and slowly disintegrate into the pool of lava.
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: Leaving this dark, cooled kind of surface element to it. Slowly breaking apart, dissipating over the magma.
Ashley: Bye, bitch.
Matt: End of its turn, it's going to try and make a saving throw against the domination effect. Rolls a natural 20. Breaks the effect, however I feel like it did its good for the turn.
Laura: Damn it. Did he take acid damage? Is he hurt?
Matt: Yeah, he did. He took 20 points of acid damage from each strike.
Laura: Nice. Good, good, good.
Ashley: So there is only one left?
Laura: No, there is two little oozes and a big one.
Liam: Two oozes and a monster man.
Matt: All right, that brings us to the top of the turn. Tiberius, you're up.
Orion: Ah very well. I scooch myself a little bit over behind him.
Marisha: (sings) One little two little three little oozes.
Matt: Over here?
Orion: Yeah, that's good, I can see his fanny from here. I'm going to cast Glacial Blast again, but I'm going to form a giant spike once more and jam it right in his asshole.
Liam: Oh, he's pulling a Vax.
Orion: And I'm going to try and catapult it right where it's over. Because it's still at the edge of the lava pool, right?
Matt: Mm-hm. So you're going to glacial spike in the-- Kancho him. Magically kancho.
Orion: Magic ice kancho blast.
Matt: Arcane cheat code. All right. So go ahead and roll to attack.
Liam: Up up down down left right left right.
Travis: A B A B N.
Orion: 24.
Matt: That definitely hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Orion: Yeah. One, two, three, four, six. That is eight. What is that, a 12? 15, 16, 18, 19. 20. 20 damage.
Matt: 20 damage? All right, and he's grappled, correct?
Orion: I'm not trying to grapple him, I'm trying to just push him.
Matt: Push him? Shove?
Orion: Yeah.
Laura: Into the lava.
Orion: Because he's like swinging at that dude so I'm like up his keister.
Matt: All right. All right. So he does make his saving throw.
Orion: Okay.
Matt: Unfortunately, so it doesn't push him into the lava, but it does slam him and does a shit-ton of damage to him, so.
Orion: Nice.
Marisha: In his pooper.
Matt: Looking rough. Just a little bit.
Orion: Yeah. I'll spend another two points.
Matt: How many points do you have now?
Orion: After this, I'll have five.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: Because we had the rest, I regenerated all my stuff.
Matt: Right. Right.
Orion: So I spent two already.
Travis: He's making trouble.
Orion: I spent another two on the fight. And I'm going to do another one. Up his ass again.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll for that.
Orion: Yeah. 20.
Matt: Uh-huh.
Marisha: Uh-huh.
Orion: Yeah and that is 15. 15 points of damage.
Matt: Makes his saving throw again, unfortunately. It does not push him. Does additional points of damage. He's looking really rough. You can see now, this ice has encrusted around the outside of its armor.
Orion: And his butt.
Matt: And where the wounds from the impact are, there's cracking shards of ice crystal jutting outward.
Orion: From his arsehole.
Matt: From his asshole. Scanlan's turn. Should have had your sheet, Scanlan. Scanlan's going to go ahead and, for the hell of it, run up and make an attack. (all laugh)
Travis: Eff him up, Scanlan.
Ashley: Let's go, Scanlan.
Matt: Why not? Pulling out, his singing sword arches in the air, and begins humming to it as he walks upon-- The humming kind of adds this vibration element, like a tuning fork blade, as he arcs the sword down.
Matt: A natural 18. I'm going to assume that hits. That's going to be a 1d8 longsword damage. That's an 8 plus-- 12 points of damage.
Laura: Woo, Scanlan.
Travis: Yeah, Scanlan.
Marisha: Yeah, Scanlan.
Ashley: Go Scanlan.
Matt: The blade swings down to where the ice has encrusted the back of its armored shell. Scanlan takes the blade, swings it down, and pierces it directly into where that ice has gathered. As it does, it cracks open the back of its armored shell. Almost peeling it open like a shrimp. You can now see all its fleshy innards are exposed to the outside. It's looking extremely, extremely close to death. It's screaming in pain, kind of thrashing about now.
Liam: Shrimping, cool.
Matt: Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. I'm gonna Lightning Bolt the bad guy.
Matt: This guy?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Oh wait, no, I should save my brother.
Liam: Maybe.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to attack one of the oozies instead.
Liam: The one right behind me.
Laura: The one right behind him.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and roll for attack.
Laura: Yeah. Yeah, 23.
Matt: Very nice, very nice, that hits
Laura: Oh I Hunter's Mark him first. Bonus.
Orion: Bonus.
Liam: Excellent.
Laura: 14 for the first attack.
Ashley: Wait, do we still have Scanlan's inspiration song?
Matt: You do, yeah.
Liam: You do. You have the die.
Ashley: I have the die. Is what I'm talking about, sorry.
Laura: Do I get six on both attacks? I do, don't I?
Matt: Mm-hm.
Laura: Yeah. 17 on the second attack.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Kill it. Kill it.
Matt: With a sickening (splat) sound, the ooze splatters across the floor.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Thank you.
Matt: Leaving a small, sizzling pool that's scarring the rock below it. You can see it slowly depressing into the ground. You gonna stay where you are?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right. That brings us to Vax.
Liam: All right. I walk back about 15 feet, and I go (shnk-shnk). Throw daggers at it.
Matt: Both daggers?
Liam: First one's a 15.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: Okay and that is-- this is my keen dagger. That is nine.
Matt: Nine hits.
Liam: Second dagger. Definitely hits, that's a 26.
Matt: Hits. None of them are Sneak Attack, unfortunately.
Liam: That's fine. This is flametongue. I don't know if fire helps, but that is an eight. So nine and an eight.
Matt: Nine and an eight, gotcha. Both daggers splash into it. You can see where they would slowly be scarred and damaged.
Liam: Except that they teleport back to my blink belt.
Laura: Yay, blink belt.
Matt: As they return to your belt, you can feel there a slight bit of liquid left, and you shake it off quickly.
Liam: Shite.
Laura: (sings) Shake it off.
Matt: But no other effect that that. It looks like it's having a hard time keeping its form together. It's kind of shaking and (oozing sound) as it moves. Still running towards Pike.
Liam: Finish that shit, Pike.
Matt: That brings us to Percy.
Liam: Hit it.
Taliesin: All right. I'm just taking the shot. Taking a shot with the bonus. So that's 14 to hit.
Matt: Mm-hm.
Taliesin: That hits. So that's 18 points of damage.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: And I'm gonna take the other shot.
Matt: Is this against the ooze?
Taliesin: Yeah, yeah. Sorry, the ooze.
Matt: All right. Yep.
Taliesin: And that's 13 to hit.
Ashley: Grog's unconscious?
Liam: He'll be fine in ten minutes, Pike.
Ashley: What?
Liam: He's out of the fight, but he'll be fine.
Ashley: Oh, okay.
Taliesin: And that's 11 points of damage.
Matt: The first shot hits, and the ooze kind of quivers. It leaves this kind of gaping hole, and it begins to slowly reform itself. Before it can, you see the other weak spot where the top of its physical form is barely wavering, and it's able to keep corporeal. You aim the second shot, and as you fire, it detonates and that portion of its upper torso-- whatever it would be-- gets flung off and splats against the wall, the rest of it slowly liquefying as the rest of the slime is destroyed.
Ashley: Nice.
Travis: Yeah, buddy.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: So I'm going to back up against the wall. I'm going to back to the wall of the-- Yeah.
Matt: Okay. Keyleth.
Marisha: Do I have enough speed to get next to Vex there? 30 feet?
Matt: Vax, you mean? Yeah, you do.
Marisha: Is that Vax? All right, once again, I'm going to Thorn Whip this bitch.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll for attack.
Liam: (sings) Thorn Whip.
Marisha: 26.
Matt: That hits, definitely, go ahead and roll damage.
Liam: (sings) Thorn Whip, the bitch is dead.
Marisha: Eight points of damage.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: And I pull him--
Matt: How do you want to do this? (all cheer)
Matt: The creature is slashing about with its claws.
Marisha: So I take my Thorn Whip, and I go (whip sound). And I grab him. And I see he's still struggling. So I take another one and I go (whip sound) on the other one. And I just go Spiderman-style.
Matt: And (dragging sound). As you do it, it plummets face-first into the--
Laura: Woo!
Matt: -- both into the magma and the slightly still-sizzling form left over from the ooze that had melted there.
Orion: Magma and acid.
Marisha: And just for flavor, I take a big gust of air, a big Wind Burst and I go (whoosh) down into the lava pool. Encrusting it all.
Matt: As you do, it slams down. You hear it scream underneath as its body begins to quiver. The Wind Burst hits, and the cool air rushes through the tunnel. All of your guys' hair and everything gets blown back for a second. You have to cover your eyes, and as you look back-- (all laugh)
Matt: The magma has cooled to a solid rock-covering surface. As darkness falls back into the tunnel--
Orion: Oh, Light!
Matt: As Tiberius hits Light, in the tunnel you can see the--
Laura: Grog!
Matt: -- hook horror, which, a portion of its upper torso is now encrusted into the actual cavern floor.
Laura: Awesome.
Travis: Amazing.
Laura: Save Grog!
Ashley: I'm going to go over to Grog and Cure Wounds at fourth level.
Matt: All right.
Liam: You tried to kill us, but you failed.
Laura: Don't challenge them.
Ashley: Don't.
Taliesin: Nice try.
Ashley: Nice job, guys.
Travis: I did a pretty decent job, actually.
Matt: I ate pizza in front of you guys. I don't care. It was tasty. Thank you.
Orion: Yeah.
Marisha: I don't care. No shame.
Matt: Delicious pizza.
Laura: No. We're not gonna have Trinket this whole thing. We better get back to Trinket soon. I'm freaking out, you guys.
Marisha: That's true, if we keep going.
Ashley: 25 points of heal!
Liam: Just in seven more weeks.
Travis: Thank you!
Ashley: You're welcome!
Marisha: I might be able to guide him--
Liam: Trinket's on the sidelines, man.
Laura: That makes me so sad!
Liam: We're not going back.
Laura: And it's all you guys' fault!
Liam: But it was like three years, Trinket was by your side. This is the first time ever.
Matt: As Grog, you come to consciousness again--
Travis: Ah! Did I kill it?
Laura: You did, Grog! Good job!
Taliesin: Yes, Grog, you killed it good.
Laura: Also, handful of pizza.
Travis: I put my hand in my pizza! (all laugh)
Liam: You killed them all, Grog! You were magnificent!
Marisha: Yay, Grog!
Travis: Aha! Tell me more! (snores) (all laugh)
Ashley: Wait--
Marisha: Now we pass out.
Ashley: -- so can I also do a Mass Cure Wounds? Since I just did a--
Matt: Yeah, if you'd like!
Ashley: Okay. So I'll also do a Mass Cure Wounds.
Laura: Yay!
Liam: Yes, 'cause I'm at four hit points.
Ashley: Yeah, you're pretty bad.
Marisha: Oof.
Laura: Brother.
Taliesin: I'm fine.
Liam: Oh, brother, where art thou?
Orion: I feel fine!
Laura: I feel fine.
Marisha: Ah, me too.
Taliesin: I feel fine.
Liam: Oh! Oh! Oh! Fancy you! Blah-blah-blah-blah! (all laugh)
Taliesin: Seems that there's one table where everyone is perfectly reasonable!
Orion: All the time, yes, Vax!
Liam: I'm at four hit points! You go fuck yourself.
Marisha: Yes, everyone on this side of the table's good.
Orion: There's an acid guy! Stab. (all laugh)
Liam: I was trying to save his ass! I was hurting myself on purpose.
Matt: All right. So, as you guys steel yourselves for a moment, kind of recovering from that fateful encounter, you--
Ashley: 22 points of healing--
Laura: To everyone.
Matt: To everyone.
Liam: That's pretty good.
Matt: Everyone heals 22 points of damage.
Liam: That's half-ish.
Taliesin: I reload.
Laura: Well done, well done.
Liam: Half-ish.
Ashley: Something additional.
Travis: Thank you, Pike.
Ashley: Oh, you're welcome, Grog! My best pal.
Travis: Hell yeah. (growling noises)
Ashley: (growling noises)
Matt: All right. (all laugh)
Travis: It's a language we speak.
Ashley: Yeah, man, it's like our own thing. (all laugh)
Matt: You guys push forward down the tunnel--
Laura: Oh!
Liam: Yes.
Laura: Limping.
Matt: For another 20 or so minutes, bringing yourself along, sore from the impact of the battle.
Liam: I'm burnt.
Matt: Bits of your armor scarred. By the way, your armor--
Liam: Yes.
Matt: -- what type of armor was it?
Liam: It was-- it's magical. I found it in the goblin city. Studded leather armor, plus two.
Matt: All right. For the acidic nature of this--
Liam: Wait. Do you know what's funny? What's funny is, the armor I had before this, that I wasn't paying attention to, was acid resistant! Isn't that funny?
Marisha: And now you don't have it no more?
Liam: That's so funny!
Laura: That's great!
Matt: Look at that!
Travis: That's really funny. Keep going.
Marisha: That is funny.
Liam: It's in my bag!
Matt: You wipe it off. Thankfully, the magic enchantment protects the armor entirely.
Laura: Ah! See! That was acid-resistant, too!
Matt: Grog, what armor do you have?
Liam: Even better!
Travis: Oh, it's like hides and leathers and--
Matt: Just regular hide.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Currently, as you're walking, you look down and notice that the armor on your torso has near-completely dissolved.
Laura: (gasps)
Travis: Son of a-- Well, you're welcome, ladies!
Laura: My, my, Grog!
Travis: (sings) It's time for a show!
Orion: Grog! Will you put those away!
Matt: As it stands, you have no additional armor class bonus for any armor.
Laura: Oh no!
Matt: Your hide armor is gone. It is completely dissolved.
Laura: What about the black armor? Put on the dwarven black plate armor!
Travis: They're dwarves.
Ashley: What if we melt it and then make it a big one?
Laura: If it's magical, it might fit you if you just try it on!
Ashley: I don't know, would that work?
Orion: It's true!
Liam: Hold on, hold on. DM! DM. I take off my magical armor, which was dwarven in shape before--
Laura: (gasps) Oh, good!
Liam: -- but I take it off, it shrinks down to like a little toddler--
Laura: Oh! Ew. Cover yourself, Vax!
Liam: I'm wearing, like, a Scientology unibody underwear underneath-- (all laugh)
Laura: Oh, okay.
Ashley: Wouldn't that be-- that's mormons!
Liam: The armor shrinks down to like toddler-size--
Orion: I don't know what that means!
Liam: -- and I hand it to Grog.
Taliesin: It's probably for the best.
Liam: And I go to my pack and I take out my old armor, which is acid resistant. Not quite as cool as what I was wearing, but I don't want him--
Travis: You had two pairs of gloves?
Liam: I can't-- huh?
Travis: Kidding. It's Dumb & Dumber.
Liam: I can't stare at his pecs for the next three days, so I'll give him my armor.
Laura: I can.
Liam: Ooh! And put on what I had on before.
Matt: All right. So you take a moment, and hand him new armor, and Grog, this scarred, nearly naked goliath form, has been lumbering through this hallway--
Travis: Ooh!
Matt: Hoo! Modesty, Grog! (all laugh)
Matt: You place the studded leather on--
Liam: Studded leather armor plus two, okay?
Matt: So mark that for your AC.
Travis: Studded armor leather plus two.
Ashley: Wait, but then what are--
Laura: He's got his own armor.
Liam: I've got my old armor. I found that armor down here.
Taliesin: I'm gonna be the person who actually examines the cart, at this point.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Oh! That's a good idea.
Laura: Plus we have other plate armor!
Liam: That's a loaner.
Taliesin: You know, I just figured someone ought to.
Marisha: What the fuck did we open?
Travis: Plus two to AC?
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: And it should be me.
Marisha: Yeah.
Liam: No, it's more complicated than that.
Matt: Okay, here's the circumstance for you, real fast, before we get to that. So, Grog.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: The armor you had on was hide, which was a dex bonus of 12 plus your dex. Studded leather is also the same, so your AC actually goes up.
Travis: Oh! Ho! Something that you'd think!
Matt: So, what was your AC previously?
Travis: 18?
Matt: 18?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: It should now be 20.
Travis: Yay! Yes!
Laura: Yay, Grog!
Travis: Grog takes the top off and does a--
Liam: Loaner! Loaner.
Taliesin: Put it back on.
Liam: Loaner.
Laura: It's his, he's keeping it. It's going to stink like Grog, you won't want that back.
Travis: The things I'm gonna do in this armor, you're not going to want it back. Just give me and Scanlan one night to break it in, and I promise you, it will be mine.
Matt: Just the two of you?
Travis: Well, uh, you know what I mean. Who am I talking to?
Matt: All right, well, go ahead and roll an investigation check.
Taliesin: An investigation check, what is that? Eight.
Matt: Okay. Looking at the cart, the cart is a rickety wooden thing, but what was in the cart was a large glass unit, a containment unit that was sealed off. You can see the inside of it has slight scarring to the glass, but it seems to be resistant to whatever the loose creature was contained in it. Along the inside of the cart, you notice there are a couple of just left over chunks of flesh of different colors, patches or pieces you see, like part of a hand that's just in there.
Laura: Ew.
Matt: Partially decomposed, to a certain extent. It looks like these were either used to feed whatever the creature was in there or remnants of some other strange collection. Based on the best you guys can ascertain, this creature was part of the experimentation-type process that the weird naga creature you fought earlier came from.
Laura: Oh, great, so there could be more.
Travis: Did we search the ogres?
Laura: Yeah! Loot the ogres!
Matt: Ogres are wearing nasty, nasty, tattered at this point, hide armor
Liam: Grog could do it.
Matt: They both carry total, amongst the two of them, about 24 pieces of gold.
Laura: Sweet.
Travis: I wanna take it.
Laura: I add it to party funds.
Travis: I am searching the ogres, and I keep the 24 gold, but I give two to Vax.
Liam: Thank you.
Travis: You're welcome.
Marisha: Can I go and grab shards of the broken glass of the case?
Matt: If you'd like to, yeah. So mark that in your inventory, you have some hand-sized shards of broken glass.
Travis: And two to Pike for healing me.
Ashley: Oh, thanks.
Matt: Anything else you guys wish to do in this section?
Liam: So we searched the ogres, that's it. I guess we should just start walking further down.
Travis: You take a poo on the black puddle of acid?
Taliesin: I think-- Well, no. That's the only heat source, that's the only lava there was, and now it's cool.
Matt: And now it has cooled, yeah.
Taliesin: Okay, never mind, then.
Marisha: Sorry.
Taliesin: It's all right, I think it's worth it.
Travis: I'd like to take a hit dice.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and do that. As many as you'd like.
Liam: Let's rest for a half-hour or so.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Take a moment, you can spend any hit dice now that you need to to heal yourself. Just make sure to mark how many you've used.
Taliesin: I just hear the sounds of ones.
Matt: All right. As you guys take a moment to heal yourselves, you pull yourselves back up to your feet, and you tread further down this tunnel. Another 25-30 minutes of the slight curvature, and it gets steeper and steeper, until eventually it opens up into a familiar cavern to some of you. You see a large waterfall pouring down from above--
Ashley: (gasps)
Laura: Mother bitches.
Marisha: It looped around?
Matt: You are on the outskirts of where the next tunnel opens up, where there are a few small streams of lava pouring from the ceiling. You look above, and you can see the top of the downward cavern. There's the giant lake beneath. And across the way, you can see the waterfall where Clarota was originally discovered.
Marisha: Well, we should go pick up Trinket.
Taliesin: At least you get your bear.
Laura: (gasps) Trinket!
Marisha: Let's go pick up Trinket.
Laura: Oh yeah yeah yeah yeah.
Travis: You're going to get your bear killed.
Liam: Can you explain? I don't think I understand.
Marisha: We left Trinket over there.
Liam: Can you explain with your map, Matt?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: We're at the bottom of the cave.
Orion: We went down and just--
Liam: I get we doubled back, but it would help the visual, I think.
Matt: Yeah so-- and I'll have more of this for you guys next week.
Travis: It was a warp tube.
Matt: The path you guys took was essentially-- lead to this back area, which I'll draw for next week, and a tunnel that curved all the way around and exited right there.
Laura: So we're--
Liam: All right, we'll go get your bear.
Laura: We'll go get Trinket, and then we'll go down the path we should have gone down in the first place next week.
Marisha: Son of a bitch.
Taliesin: Except we get Trinket.
Laura: But Trinket!
Marisha: So it's not useless.
Laura: It was absolutely useless.
Liam: That's fate, that's kismet.
Marisha: Is there, like, any other way down here?
Matt: Other than the fact you've completely destroyed one of the mind flayer generals as well as the one helming the war camp above. You've acquired new magical items and defeated one of the abominations that was created for the siege war. I think you accomplished quite a few things, though maybe not as directly as you were hoping.
Taliesin: And we acquired our bear.
Laura: We got our bear back.
Matt: All right, so you, taking the flying carpet, it's a very precarious journey as the weight limit for the carpet--
Liam: You go on it, right?
Laura: He's with me, and he cast Featherfall.
Matt: You can go ahead and cast Fly on your bear. Trinket awkwardly (bear noises) manages to swim her way down to the bottom floor.
Laura: Come, Trinket, come.
Matt: As you make your way to the base of the watery lake, at the bottom, you can see a swish to the water, and a very familiar sight briefly shows itself in the distance. As you see a slick domed fish-like head protrude with a few tentacles in the distance, you all instinctively step quite a distance away, and it seems to withdraw back into the water.
Marisha: Can I-- While I see it real quick, I'm going to go ahead and channel and cast Beast Sense through it.
Matt: Nothing bestial of it. This is not a natural creature.
Marisha: Good to know.
Matt: Clarota once again whispers to the rest of you, "Stay at bay. The Aboleth is dangerous."
Laura: Aboleth?
Marisha: Aboleth.
Matt: You all step back and turn now into the the tunnel that extends further into the heart of this mountain. You see streams of lava pouring from the top occasionally, and one central flow of molten rock tends to fill half of the cavern, like a small river heading down into the base of the mountain. This is very familiar to you, as it's the path that your dream took you.
Ashley: Guys, this is really familiar to me. (all laugh)
Laura: We spent a whole game doing--
Marisha: Well, we took a wrong turn, I guess.
Liam: I don't know. We were flexing our muscles a little bit.
Laura: Flexing our muscles.
Marisha: Yeah, I like it.
Laura: Plus you got us new armor out of it.
Travis: And I got naked, too.
Matt: As you guys begin to step into the next lengths of your subterranean journey, we'll pick that up next week. Thank you all so much for tuning into Critical Role.
Laura: Man, oh man, oh man.
Matt: Some tense battles. An intense encounter choice on you guys' part. Well done on that.
Ashley: I want to keep going.
Liam: Who's this guy?
Matt: What is this?
Zac: All right, so. Amy was the winner of our first giveaway.
Matt: Congrats, Amy. (all cheer)
Marisha: Huzzah.
Zac: I ask whoever hasn't signed this, we're going to pass it around to all sign it for Amy.
Matt: Awesome, we'll all do that.
Zac: As a thank-you for Amy, she's an avid fan.
Laura: Yay!
Matt: Thank you, Amy, that's awesome.
Marisha: Thanks for being a fan.
Ashley: Thanks, Amy.
Zac: As a personal challenge, guys, from me to you, I think we are, what are we, 18 away, Lucas?
Lucas: 19.
Laura: 19?
Matt: 19 away from our next package?
Zac: From the next one.
Lucas: Is it at 1,550?
Zac: Yeah.
Lucas: Oh, we're 29 away.
Laura: Oh, okay.
Matt: Aw.
Zac: Are you sure?
Lucas: Yeah, we're at 1,521.
Zac: Okay, so we've got a little bit of a ways to go, but I'm going to go ahead and have these guys sign this one as well, and I'm going to push you guys that by the end of tonight, if we reach 1,550, I'll go ahead and throw this in with the next promo kit, as well. And if not I'll hang onto it for myself, and I won.
Matt: Boom.
Zac: Thank you guys so much. That was fun. It gets more intense like every week.
Matt: That's apparently the path this is taking, so--
Marisha: We keep getting knocked unconscious.
Travis: We make amazing decisions. (all laugh)
Zac: And just so you guys know, that was the chat room that decided on your fate.
Laura: You?
Travis: Sons of bitches.
Matt: Yeah, second week in a row.
Travis: (sings) Why can't we be friends?
All: (sing) Why can't we be friends?
Matt: So the chat room creature choice, those will be an occasional thing, not a weekly thing, 'cause it's too difficult to keep up with that and a little too random. Plus that's just too many creatures to be prepared for. But every few weeks or so, I'm gonna throw one out there for you guys. So come and watch. Hopefully you'll be there for one of those episodes. Put your friends together, vote for the creature you want to see them fight, and if a TPK happens, not my fault, it's totally on you guys.
Laura: Is that a total party kill?
Matt: Total party kill.
Zac: That's intense. So, guys, we're not going to go offline just now. We're going to stick around for a little while. We're going to throw it up while we move some cameras, so I'm going to leave it up to the chat room. It's up to you guys, we can either come back and play some Bloodborne on the PS4 that you guys bought us, or we can come back and play some Just Dance 2014 that you guys also bought us. So there's dancing or Bloodborne. It's up to you guys.
Matt: Dancing is fun to watch, Bloodborne just to watch him get really, really angry.
Zac: I don't get angry. Lucas gets angry, though.
Matt: This game, the beginning of this game will make you angry. All right, all right.
Marisha: You don't get angry? Have you played Dark Souls or Demon Souls? Because--
Zac: I think actually--
Matt: Demon Souls mimics, man, I know the pain you're in for.
Zac: What was it like, Bachee or something like that? Man, that game pissed me off.
Orion: Bocce ball?
Zac: Wings of-- ire, ear, something like that.
Matt: Oh yeah, I know what you're talking about.
Zac: Man, that was heavy. Would any of you guys be interested in sticking around to dance a round or two if we were to go to Just Dance? It's a nightly staple here. We end the nights with dancing. I don't know if you guys have seen that ridiculousness, but--
Matt: Who would want to stick around for that?
Zac: They're all shivering in fear, you guys
Liam: How soon will that start? I'll stay for 20.
Matt: We can stay for a little bit.
Zac: I bet they're are all going to ask for dancing now.
Lucas: See a lot of Bloodborne, actually.
Zac: Oh, really?
Matt: Oh, I live for Bloodborne, man.
Zac: Well, the second--

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone! Welcome to Critical Role tonight! We have some interesting adventurous points to go over. We're also coming off International Tabletop Day, which we had a great time. Met a lot of the wonderful fans, one of which had created their own t-shirt of our group and inspired us to do the same! So you'll see a bunch of us wearing our fantastic, full assortment of Critical Role party member t-shirts tonight. Just for fun. In the meantime, let’s go ahead and get this started, as we all have the chance to warm up with character backgrounds and maybe a little surprise. So be back here in a few minutes, guys! (drumming battle music) (drumming battle music continues)
Ashley: Pike grew up in the outskirts of town, near the Bramblewood. Her ancestors were a family of deep gnomes with quite an unfavorable reputation. Thievery, destruction, and trickery left them with the curse of the last name Trickfoot. Sarenrae, the goddess of healing and redemption, had other plans for Pike's great-great-grandfather, Wilhand, who left his family at a young age after a dream. A dream that changed the course of the Trickfoot family. Wilhand devoted his life to Sarenrae and pledged from then on that him and his family would live a life of service and devotion. As a child, Pike seemed to have an affinity to heal. Whether it was animals, people, or even flowers, she felt she had a purpose in making things whole that had once been broken. She studied and learned the ways to heal through divine magic. She lived a peaceful life, quiet and simple, until one day, Wilhand was captured and almost killed by a group of goliath barbarians. One of the goliaths took a stand against the murder of the innocent gnome and he himself was beaten, bloodied, and left for dead, abandoned by his herd. Wilhand went to Pike for help. She prayed and healed this barbarian as best she could, bringing him back to life. When he awoke, she discovered his name was Grog Strongjaw. After that, they were best of friends, a rather unlikely pair. Little did she know that in a few years' time Grog would soon return the favor and bring her back from the clutches of death. After being killed in battle, Pike felt angry. She wanted to be stronger so that it would never happen again. She spent four months at sea training with the men and women aboard a ship called the Broken Howl. Gripping her holy symbol in one hand, and her morningstar in the other, this time, Pike is ready.
Travis: Right, Listen up! If you have ale, then you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw! A goliath of towering height and size, this barbarian has an appetite for the two great loves in his life: combat, women, and ale! (chuckle) (record scratch) Wait. Easily the brains of the group, Grog is often consulted for his vast knowledge of shapes, colors, and (chuckle) shiny things! ...also ale. In his early years, armed with his two-handed great axe, Grog often enjoyed proving his might amongst the ranks of his family's wandering herd. But after coming upon an unsuspecting elderly gnome in the woods, he objected to the killing such an innocent life. A creature of impulse, Grog felt only pity for this... well this terrified little thing. And his disobedience cost him dearly. (weapon crack) Beaten bloody, and banished by the herd leader, his uncle Kevdak, Grog was abandoned and left to die. Exiled from his herd, it was then that the relative of the very gnome he fought to save, saved him. It was the kindness of a gnome cleric named Pike, that healed Grog, bringing him back from death's edge. And they have remained close friends ever since. (brawling sounds) Most nights, Grog can be found challenging entire taverns to wrestling matches! Ha! ...or accompanying Scanlan to the nearest house, where you pay for... lady favors. Also ale!
Marisha: A first Impression of Keyleth would leave you with little information on the half-elven druid. You might even think that her social awkwardness due to her sheltered upbringing is kinda sweet. (chuckle) Of course, it would be unwise underestimate her based on first impressions. (thunder crack) Under that unintimidating petite frame is a vicious beast waiting to be unleashed, whose natural powers have made even the fiercest of champions pee their pants, literally! (soft chuckle) Born to the Air Tribe of the Ashari people, Keyleth was raised with a deep love of nature and the elemental magics. It is her people’s inherent duty to protect the delicate areas in Tal'Dorei where the four elemental planes begin to bleed with this realm. Since she was a little girl, she had quite a knack for air manipulation and beast shaping abilities. Well, if you consider kittens and flying squirrels to be little beasts. Which, I do. (clears throat) Anyways, it wasn't long before the headmaster of the tribe, her father, Kohren, realized her true prodigious abilities and she was inveterated to succeed him as the next headmaster. Just like that, her jovial childhood was stripped and replaced with endless spell memorization, teachings from ancient traditions, and exceedingly high expectations. Every druid leader to be must embark on a journey to seek out the sister tribes in order to introduce and establish respect amongst the fellow headmasters. They call this the Aramente, or Noble Odyssey. When her father felt she was ready, he set her on the path to truly discovering herself. Not knowing when, or if she will ever return. As she hiked down the mountain towards Stillben, she meditated on the task ahead. Part of the Aramente is proving yourself a strong warrior, a valiant protector, and a wise and compassionate leader. With this knowledge, one thought plays in repeat in her mind: Is she even worthy?
Taliesin: Percy was the third child of 7 children, born to a noble family who lived far to the north in the ancient castle of Whitestone. With so many siblings to share the burdens of lordship, Percy turned his attention to the sciences, engineering, and naturalism. One day, a mysterious couple, named Lord and Lady Briarwood, came to court. During a feast held in their honor, the Briarwoods violently took control of the castle, killing or imprisoning everyone who would stand in their way. Percy awoke chained in the dungeon, only to be freed by his younger sister. Together they fled, chased by the Briarwoods’ men. As they ran, Percy’s sister took several arrows to the chest and fell. Percy kept running, eventually jumping into a freezing river and floating unconscious to freedom. He did not remember waking up on a fishing boat. He barely remembered the next two years, as he slowly made his way as far south as possible. Then one night, Percy had a dream. A roaring cloud of smoke offered him vengeance against those who destroyed his family. When he awoke, Percy began to design his first gun. (sound of a gun cocking and firing)
Sam: Oh, you haven’t heard of Scanlan Shorthalt? Well, gird your loins, ladies, because he has his eye on you. A talented musician, master of disguise, and dashingly handsome in his own mind, Scanlan sings songs almost as much as he sings his own praises. Born a poor gnome, Scanlan used his endless charm and soaring tenor voice to croon for coin and support his single mother. One day he was discovered by a half-orc promoter, and joined Dr. Dranzel’s Spectacular Traveling Troupe where he learned the ways of the world, and honed his skills as a bard extraordinaire. A loner much of his life, Scanlan has never quite come to terms with the violent death of his mother at the hands of a goblin invasion. While his years on the road provided many, shall we say, educational experiences with the opposite sex, deep down Scanlan yearns for the one thing he’s never known: the true love of a fellow gnome. Still, Scanlan considers himself a lover first, performer second, and fighter distant third. On the battlefield, he’ll support his allies, but rarely draws blood unless it’s to protect fellow gnome, Pike. Count on Scanlan for a hearty laugh, a rollicking song, and a twinkle in his eye that melts hearts and makes the females swoon.
Orion: Greetings and salutations. I am Tiberius Stormwind. I hail from a town called Ty'rex, located in the heart of Draconia, born from a politically respected family. At the age of 15, I succeeded in passing the Sorcerer’s Rite, showing prodigy-like control of my magic. The judges and the Draconian high council were amazed at how powerful my spells were for how long I had been training. At 20 years old, I was the youngest appointed member of the magic guild in Draconian history. For the next few years, I almost went mad from the malaise of being a guild member, as it’s rather boring. However, one day I happened upon a chamber, unused for quite some time. In the room were stacks of books and maps of the surrounding cities and areas around the known world. For months I would frequent the chamber, and learned of artifacts from legend. After a long period of research, I made a list of artifacts that caught my eye. I brought these findings to the high council and was told that all of the information in the chamber I had stumbled upon was either believed to be fiction, or unsolvable mysteries, and hence were lost forever. I found those answers to be unacceptable. A year later I devised a ruse and managed to convince the city council to lend support in me leaving Draconia on a mission of peace and diplomacy for the surrounding kingdoms. Going from town to town and making friends and allies, in and for the name of Draconia. Being a red dragonborn, I had quite the task on my hands in that respect, but it was exactly what I needed so I could explore the world and find these artifacts, as I felt the truth was out there. Some may describe me as buffoonish, but I say poppycock to all that. I am much sharper than most give me credit for. I just don’t pay attention to things sometimes. I’ve also been known to be rather cunning, loyal, happy-go-lucky, and well, dangerous. I can’t help but show my true scales every now and then. But overall, I think I’m quite friendly for a Dragonborn.
Liam: Never entirely welcome in the company of elves or men, Vax'ildan learned at a young age to skip past formality, preferring instead to invite himself in your door. Along with twin sister Vex'ahlia, Vax was born by a chance encounter between elven royalty and human peasantry. Raised by their mother in their early years, the twins were eventually sent off to their father in the elven capital of Singorn. But their cool reception among the elves there never warmed, and their time in the capital didn’t last. The siblings stole away one autumn night and set out on the open road. After a few years of wandering, they eventually decided to return to their mother, and journeyed back to the lands of their youth. But instead of finding their childhood home, they returned to a pile of rubble. Their mother was gone, their home burned to ash. Pressing the townspeople for answers, they learned of the day the dragon came. (dragon roaring) With their ties all severed, Vax'ildan and his sister set out to find their fortune together in Tal'Dorei. An outsider since birth, Vax quickly learned to solve life’s challenges in his own particular way, often by sidestepping them entirely. And when his knack for circumventing adversity isn’t enough, (ringing weapons SFX) the way of blades the elves schooled him in more than makes up the difference.
Laura: Like so many half-elves, Vex'ahlia has spent most of her life suffering the cool reception of a people who don’t fully accept her. Born of a human mother, and an elven father who only later in life took an interest in their existence, Vex'ahlia and her twin brother Vax'ildan quickly realized the only people they could truly rely on in this world were each other. It was at the age of 10 when the two were taken from their mother, and brought to live in Singorn, the isolated elven city for which their father was an ambassador. He quietly took them in, but always kept an icy distance, and after too many years of disdainful looks, the pair decided to leave his indifference behind, and set out on their own. Vax took to the cities, stealing small trinkets and learning the ways of the thief, while Vex kept to the woods. She preferred the isolation. Always the keen observer, she learned to hunt and to track, to spy and to shoot. And through a series of fateful events, earned herself a companion in the form of a bear - her own stolen Trinket - to fight alongside her and protect her fiercely. Also he is adorable, and gives expert massages.
Matt: Welcome back, everyone! The new intro tonight, which I think we're all pretty damn proud of, was put together by our fantastic overlord, Zac. (all cheering)
Matt: It put him to work for quite some time, also the mixing and sound effects done by the amazing Alex Neat and the music you heard was composed by the amazingly talented Jason Charles Miller. So if you don't know Jason you should look him up. He's done stuff for The Guild and many other web shows. Also a fantastic musician on his own with his own stuff. He is the lead singer of Godhead. He's just a good guy. Also a voice actor, look him up if you have any time. Good people, and he lent his talents to our intro so we really appreciate that, buddy. Also we had a great time at Tabletop Day. Got to meet some of our fans. Got to take some pictures. Bunch of cool folks. Some of us got to go on the stream at certain points in the day. All around a good time! So those of you that got a chance to come, thank you so much! And a fan created, as I mentioned before, this awesome t-shirt with the roster, so we were all really inspired to go ahead and make some of our own. Got the party showing off their Critical Role positive.
Marisha: So one of the things we were actually talking about doing, so we'd like to give a shout out to the person who made this, big shout out to @RuzGofDi. Thank you! For doing this. A lot of people have been asking for shirts. I don't know if you guys maybe would be into that or not. So we thought maybe we would wear these, see what you guys thought. But if you guys are into it, we thought about doing a limited run of these and making this the first of our fan-designed t shirts.
Sam: First of many.
Marisha: First of many. Every once in awhile we'll have fans submit designs and then we'll pick a winner. Each one will be a limited run. So if you guys will like this, let us know, and maybe we'll make it happen.
Sam: I'm wearing one right now in my underpants, which we will be selling next week.
Marisha: Yes, and there might be some stills of that to order.
Orion: I'm going to wear mine next game.
Taliesin: Next game.
Matt: I guess some people are into the idea, let the chat know. People seem to be, and we'll be putting more designs out, getting some shirt possibilities to you guys in the near future.
Marisha: Let us know in the chat guys.
Liam: Wait wait wait, I've got some thing. I just gave everyone in the party rupees, treasure!
Marisha: Rupees!
Liam: These were sent to me by Tim West who has a great new company called Fantasy Coin HQ. If you go to fantasycoinhq.com he makes - Matt's holding up a dwarven coin at the moment - they make gems, they make fantasy coins, nerd coins.
Sam: Are we doing free ads now for people?
Liam: This is just a thank you!
Matt: This is a thank you.
Liam: Check it out. Or if you just hit a really tall tuft of grass with a sword, these will pop out of it so you don't have to order them. Just mow your lawn.
Marisha: They’re hefty, too.
Orion: If these were rupees, this is what they would feel like.
Marisha: I kind of want to throw them at people across the room!
Orion: I want to trade them, put them in a pouch.
Matt: Also guys, as a note, we have, available tonight for the person, for people who have managed to get themselves to 2,150 subscribers tonight, we will send out another promo kit to one of you folks in the chat with another signed picture of our Critical Role cast. So be sure to see if we can get the subscribers to climb up as well, so keep an eye out for that in the evening so we can give out one of those before the night is over. That would be awesome.
Sam: Let's do this!
Matt: Let's kick into the game proper, guys! Let's get some proper music playing, because that's what I do.
Orion: That’s what I baby do right.
Sam: (Beatboxing)
Matt: So last we left off, music's not playing here. I need music!
Sam: Doesn't matter.
Matt: The music's important to me! The party had been travelling into the dwarven city of Kraghammer at the behest of arcanist Allura Vysoren in search of a halfling paladin, a very revered folk hero named Lady Kima of Vord who had gone missing following a vision quest somewhere beneath the dwarven city of Kraghammer, supposedly for some great evil that was germinating there, festering and growing. After you guys traversed through the dwarven city, you began to find your way down into the mines. The mythril mines of Greyspine beneath the dwarven town. After a few fateful encounters, the return of your gnome cleric.
Ashley: Hey, that's me!
Matt: Grog having his proverbial brains blown out by an intellect devourer. The party then decided to make friends with a mind flayer, an illithid that had been cast out from its people seeking vengeance and possible return to its people. Upon making this alliance, they made an attack on the dwarven, or the duergar, war camp that is threatening to rise up and attack Kraghammer from deep within the mountains themselves. The attack was successful. The general was killed, interrogated, and some interesting information was gleaned from him before his brain was sucked out from his head by Clarota, the mindflayer friend. However, this attack also announced to the local war camp of your presence and in the process of attempting to escape, the druid was damaged and lost her eagle form and thus began a freefall of many party members. A haphazard attempt to use the magic carpet far over its weight limit led most of the party to come crash landing and nearly killing everyone. Managed to escape, walled themselves in thanks to Keyleth’s stone wall spell. And after staying the evening in one of the deeper tunnels, and barely avoiding a roving band of duergar there, you managed to find yourselves in battle with 2 ogres carrying some sort of strange, mutated, black pudding ooze contained in a glass container. The glass container being shattered, of course, by an explosive arrow created by Percy and fired by Vex.
Laura: Go us!
Matt: At the very start of the battle, led into a very rough battle with this strange mutating ooze that kept splitting and splitting, until through some good teamwork, crafty use of telekinesis and a nearby lava pool, and general high damage rolls, you guys managed to survive the encounter.
Travis: Barely.
Matt: Making your way to the bottom of this tunnel, you found yourself looping back around to the large crevice where the giant waterfall had fallen in before, where you had met Clarota. Which allowed you to retrieve your bear Trinket.
Laura: Yeah! Trinket!
Matt: We pick up as you guys begin to step down into the lower tunnels, the ones that are partially coated with a series of magma pools and falls that are trickling out of the rockside. All right everyone.
Sam: I was just so out of it last time. Have we rested? Are we in some need of rest?
Laura: We should probably rest.
Sam: What are we around? What's near us? Is this just a tunnel? Is there any sort of shelter, caves?
Laura: We're by that lake with the giant monster.
Liam: We circled all the way back around.
Sam: Oh shit.
Laura: And went down to that place that you told us not to go in the first place? Yeah, that's where we ended up.
Sam: How was that for you? (all laugh)
Matt: So essentially there was--
Sam: We're back in the camp.
Matt: You're under the camp. You're where the giant chasm leads down into the waterfall. There is a pool of water at the bottom where the aboleth was in the water.
Liam: We just barely survived the chat room and now we need to rest.
Travis: (chuckles) The chatroom. Take it easy on us, all right?
Matt: You guys also just woke up about 2, 3 hours ago.
Laura: Right, so we don't really - oh, we can take hit points.
Matt: You guys can take a short rest and use your hit dice to heal up. You didn't take any damage last game. Thankfully you stayed out of the fray.
Sam: So I'm okay. That's all I need to know.
Matt: You did use one of your Dominate spells.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Only thing of note. So the rest of you who need to heal up can use this time to take a short rest and use your hit dice to heal up on your own.
Travis: I'm ready. Who we fighting next?
Sam: Anyone need some healing? Are we all okay? Are we all good?
Ashley: I think we're all good. Where's everybody at in terms of...
Orion: Well, I'm fine.
Laura: On a personal level, or?
Ashley: You mean like in life, or?
Sam: As we survey the area, how many tunnels we looking at? What's our options here?
Matt: So, (all laugh)
Travis: He's back, he's back.
Orion: Would you calm down?
Matt: Let me pull out this visual aid for you. This is the tunnel sequence you guys have traversed down to the main area where the goblin encampment was. This is the large bridge that went across the giant chasm to where the duergar war camp was. This is the giant drop-off at the waterfall. You guys are currently in this section about to go deeper into this tunnel where a series of small magma trickles are pouring out of the rock.
Sam: So we never went up to the war camp and through it.
Matt: You did.
Sam: Oh we did!
Liam: We crashed down by the tunnel, we fled. We sealed up the way behind us, ran in.
Sam: Got it. So we should keep going? We should just keep going. Magma? Follow the magma.
Liam: Well I recommend. We don't want to go up and through the camp again?
Laura: No no no, we're going into the cavern.
Liam: So we're going to backtrack the way we came to that war camp road, yes?
Laura: No, we're going into the tunnel.
Sam: Did you see the visual aid?
Orion: Yes, we are going into the lava tunnel.
Laura: No no no, in through the tunnel.
Liam: I’ll just follow. I thought I understood.
Matt: (laughs) It’s been a week.
Sam: I mean there might be something to be gleaned from going back to the war camp.
Laura: That tunnel.
Liam: We went out of there.
Laura: No no no no no.
Matt: You guys came through here, you traveled across over the war camp, went back here and tunneled below.
Laura: And popped this out right there. So now we're going into this.
Matt: Correct. Maps.
Liam: And just to make sure that my memory is on point--
Travis: It's not.
Liam: --Before we circled back around, we hit a fork in the road where we could have gone up and we could have gone down.
Matt: Correct.
Liam: So that's behind us.
Laura: That's behind us, we're going down down down.
Liam: Cheers.
Matt: Cheers indeed, huzzah. All right.
Laura: Shall we?
Ashley: We shall!
Sam: Is Clarence with us still?
Matt: Clarota is indeed with you. Clarota took a large black iron duergar bolt to the chest earlier and is mostly recovered but is still even more hunched than usual.
Laura: Does he need healing?
Ashley: He also ate those brains.
Matt: The brains helped him--
Ashley: Helped him a little bit?
Matt: --keep healthy, but he's still a little wounded but he's taking his time to rest up. He seems to be okay. Not as worse for wear as he was before. A slight wheeze that's always to him still present.
Ashley: He's just always a little weezy.
Laura: (meh meh meh sounds)
Liam: (meh meh meh sounds)
Matt: Sounds just like that. So, as you guys begin to push down into this lower chasm, the temperature of the air itself grows steadily warmer and warmer with a drier heat.
Orion: This feels nice.
Matt: You find yourselves, especially those of you with thick armor--
Ashley: Oh, it's so hot!
Matt: --You find that sweat beads begin to trickle down the side of your face--
Ashley: I'm sweating!
Marisha: You're all glisteny!
Matt: --And begin to pool and gather in parts of your chestplate.
Sam: Pike, if you'd like me to hold your armor or do you want me to take it off for a little while?
Ashley: No, I'll keep it on just for safety.
Sam: Let it hang out a little bit?
Liam: Do you even lift, bro?
Sam: Just saying, you might feel more comfortable with a loose fitting sort of cloak?
Laura: Scanlan, stop being creepy!
Sam: I'm not creepy! I'm just trying to be mindful!
Ashley: No, it's fine Scanlan.
Travis: Very considerate of you, a gentleman's offer.
Ashley: Yeah, it’s okay. I'll keep it on.
Sam: I'll just have to use my imagination.
Marisha: A gentleman's offer, yes. That's what we'll call it from now on.
Travis: What permission?
Sam: Onward.
Matt: Pressing further down, the air itself that once had a kind of a hint of that sulfur smell, is now becoming stronger and stronger as you step deeper and deeper into this cavernous tunnel. It rests about 30 feet to 40 feet at width and about 25, 30 feet up and it varies to come pinched tighter or wider at moments, but it continues to be a steady downward climb in a continuous direction. The small trickles, some of them pool and gather into these small, magma cups if you will. Molten hot magma, I knew it was coming.
Orion: (murmurs) I was just wondering if it would happen.
Matt: Ooh, that's minus 200 experience points. (all laugh)
Orion: I feel a bit weaker now.
Matt: You get about 20 or 30 minutes deeper into this tunnel before the sweltering heat gets noticeably warmer and as you crest a slight incline and decline over a small hill portion of this tunnel, you can see now a large portion of the rock has collapsed on the left side and a gargantuan pool of magma is pooling into the tunnel, essentially covering half of the tunnel you are traversing down. It can be walked on the side of safely at about 2 or 3 at shoulder width, but you only have about a 15 foot width here and the rest of it is just extremely bright, hot, molten rock.
Laura: Does it hurt us to get near it?
Matt: No, but it's uncomfortable and something to be very aware of and to watch your step.
Orion: I feel great!
Matt: You feel great.
Liam: I would just like to point out that we're 9 adults playing don't touch the hot lava at the moment. (all laugh)
Sam: Keyleth, you don't have any way of - say it gets hotter than this? You don't have any way of getting some water out here?
Orion: Ooh! I do! And I pull out an empty bottle.
Laura: Oh? Oh?
Liam: Tiberius, I've seen that bottle a lot. What does it do?
Orion: Oh! Um well, uh. I pull out two bottles. This one - they're both empty bottles - but this one is an air bottle and this one is a water bottle.
Liam: Oh! Thank you! That clears that up! (all laugh)
Travis: Even I feel dumber right now. (all laugh)
Sam: Your intelligence is now 4. (all laugh)
Travis: 4...3 and a half.
Liam: Does it make a lot of water?
Orion: Oh! This, if we ever need air--
Sam: I think that's the water one that you just pulled out.
Orion: I take it out (wind SFX). I control a small gust.
Laura: Yes, but what about water? Oh my.
Orion: This, if we need water - And I do a small stream.
Matt: Okay. So a little bit of water just begins to pour perpetually, and without seeming end due to the size of the bottle.
Sam: It's like a piss stream!
Laura: Oh, nice!
Orion: So, if you want to just squirt - and I do a small, little squirt-blasts on Scanlan.
Sam: Ahh!
Laura: Oh, okay. Lovely.
Liam: Is that unlimited?
Orion: Well, of course it is! Why would I carry a non-magical item on me? That's ridiculous.
Ashley: Just a water bottle.
Orion: So yes, Scanlan, we're fine.
Sam: That's good to know.
Laura: So, should we try to cross this little path here?
Ashley: That sounds cool!
Sam: That's really cool.
Laura: Can I use my tracking to see any of those duergar? To see if any of them have passed through the area; if there's a large group of them ahead of us?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: I can use my tracking and my favored terrain to see how many within 6 miles, if there's a large group of them.
Matt: Yes you can. All right. Go ahead and roll for your tracking check on that.
Liam: First roll.
Matt: I believe it's survival.
Laura: Ooh! Here we go!
Travis: Do it for the Star Wars trailer.
Marisha: Roll. Roll. Roll.
Matt: This is with advantage, I believe, because it's your favored terrain, correct?
Laura: Oh, okay.
Marisha: (singing) Your favored terrain!
Laura: Okay, that's better. Is that it?
Liam: Survival.
Laura: 21?
Matt: 21! All right. You take a moment, and about 30 to 40 feet, you go through and inspect the way the terrain's been pushed and the dirt has been shoved aside. Tracking footprints and scuff marks on the rock and the walls nearby, seeing if any of the flows have been interrupted recently, and you ascertain that there is actually a pretty continuous patrol through here. About once every 4 to 8 hours up and down this tunnel that contain anywhere from 5 to 10 or more duergar, sometimes other, larger creatures. You find footprints that resemble maybe the ogres you mentioned earlier, possible troll footprints, but you're not familiar with that entity. You also notice some of the walls have what looks like small, localized cave-ins, almost as if something had burrowed through at one time or another.
Travis: Awesome. Great.
Matt: Large, large creatures. So, there's also things that exist outside of the tunnel system.
Ashley: Like Tremors?
Laura: So, as quickly as possible, we should get through these tunnels, I assume?
Matt: Probably a good idea. As a note though, you said within 6 miles?
Laura: Yes.
Sam: 6 miles?!
Matt: As you continue tracking down this tunnel - and it takes you a good 3 or 4 hours to finally reach a point where the tunnel begins to widen up - you assess that, maybe 3 miles up, there is a localized town. Or, at least, a population of duergar amassed in a central place.
Liam: Check out the brain on Brad!
Laura: So 3 to 4 miles up, you said, from where we are at this point?
Matt: Yeah. From where you began.
Travis: Should we be stealthing?
Laura: We should probably start stealthing at this point, yes.
Liam: Yes. I was about to say I'd like to move ahead of the group a bit and start sneaking along.
Matt: Let's do that! Go ahead and roll stealth.
Liam: Do I have advantage like my sister had for--
Matt: You do not.
Liam: No. All right, well--
Laura: Should we all try to stealth?
Liam: 26 for me.
Matt: This would be a group stealth check.
Liam: 26. I've tiptoed away.
Sam: 19.
Marisha: 15.
Taliesin: 7.
Travis: 17.
Ashley: 7.
Laura: 20.
Liam: 26.
Matt: All right.
Ashley: (laughs)
Matt: Picking up on the shortcomings of a handful of members of your group, you do manage to maintain what you feel is a fairly stealthy advance deeper into this tunnel system. About an hour and a half of perpetual travel, as the tunnel slowly widens further and further, with every quarter mile or so, you eventually get to a point where the tunnel shoots open into a gargantuan cavern. A chamber nearly a mile and a half across from this visual point.
Ashley: (quietly)...of secrets?
Matt: It is extremely tall, with hundreds of very jagged stalagmites hanging from the ceiling, and rock formations that rise and fall at different points of the topography. This entire tunnel is built in this strange, large, natural, downward curve that disappears out of sight about a mile ahead and to the left. But this huge tunnel is lit with what looks like maybe 2 to 3 dozen various small lava falls that are pouring down the sides of this giant cavern's structure. You also see some small pockets of that red glow stone that a lot of these Dwarven tunnels tend to use as a light source. You also, as you begin to step into this, carefully - you, taking point on this, both the twins; you notice - on the far end of this cavern… Well, first off, the entire landscape is rough and craggy, with large, black, obsidian spikes just jutting out of the ground at various points. Whether it be seismically created or otherwise, it's a very unwelcoming atmosphere. And that sulfurous smell is extremely strong. Even though you’ve gotten used to it as far as you can for this travel, it’s still a very pungent odor and you find that it’s going to be very difficult for you to make out any other scent in this location right now other than that horrible mixture of chemicals that probably isn’t very healthy to be breathing at the moment. What you see across the chamber, your eyes focus on a small cluster of buildings, it looks, of a similar construct as the barracks that you saw at the war camp. You can probably surmise somewhere in the neighborhood of about 20 to 25 of these structures, all localized in this one area that is punctuated with - you can count about 7 of these black obsidian spires that rise out at different points around like watchtowers.
Liam: Still natural?
Matt: No, these are constructed. These are very smooth and have that rigid Dwarvish construction with a jagged edge to each one of the leveled lips of these towers. The one that you can see closest to you, which is about a quarter mile off, you can just barely make out what looks like a couple of duergar walking across one of the upper levels and what looks like some sort of ballista and/or anti-personnel weapon that is put--
Laura: This is where Kima’s being held.
Sam: How do you know that?
Laura: She had a vision.
Orion: Plus, it’s a really big thing.
Sam: That’s true.
Matt: These giant bolt-throwers currently reside on each one of these, and then in the center of this cluster of buildings, you see standing a gargantuan ebony fortress. Serrated stonework marks the top of each wall and more of these giant bolt-throwers are mounted across the parapets. A massive magma fall descends from the rocky ceiling, right above the stronghold, onto the roof and is forked onto each side and then continues to flow down, buttressing each side of the stronghold almost as a defense mechanism, like they built it intentionally underneath this magma fall.
Sam: Wow.
Laura: Oh, that’s where the trapdoor is!
Sam: What? Trapdoor?
Travis: There’s a trapdoor.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Wait...under the magma?
Laura: You missed a lot, Scanlan.
Marisha: Oh, right.
Sam: I was with you the whole time.
Orion: Yes, but you were never paying attention.
Sam: I was drunk.
Orion: You got that new magazine and you’ve been staring at it a long time.
Sam: Well, it’s hot gnomes.
Liam: Vax creeps back to Pike and ushers her up to the front. Do you recall any of the details from your vision, from your dreams?
Ashley: I’ve definitely been here in my vision. (all laugh)
Ashley: I do remember that much. All of this looks familiar, and I think we’re in the right place.
Laura: Sweet.
Orion: Very good. That’s all important.
Ashley: Do we know what else is around? What was the building again? With the--
Sam: It’s a fortress.
Matt: The giant building you see is called Emberhold. That’s what it’s been referred to as.
Sam: And it’s not a temple?
Matt: It’s not a temple, it is a fortress. The temple of where apparently K'Varn as far as you know exists is further below in the fungal forest that surrounds this ancient city ruin that has been repurposed by the illithids that Clarota actually came from.
Laura: Oh, yes! And we know here, because the general that we mind melded - Clarota read his brain.
Sam: Yeah, I was there!
Laura: I know. It’s just you were drunk, so I’m reiterating it. (all laugh)
Sam: Yeah yeah, good, thank you for that.
Orion: Just making sure.
Taliesin: You had this very vivid look the whole time.
Laura: So remember, Scanlan, that the general said that on the left side of the fortress--
Sam: Of the fortress.
Laura: --is how we can get into the trapdoor.
Sam: How we can get into the trapdoor, exactly.
Liam: By the smaller--
Sam: Smaller--
Liam: --of two lava flows.
Laura: By the smaller of two lava flows.
Sam: --of two...what?
Laura: Lava flows.
Ashley: So what we’re looking at is the fortress?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: You’re looking at Emberhold itself, the center of the duergar society and from what you’ve gleaned from two different duergar that you’ve interrogated, supposedly where Lady Kima has been held should she still--
Laura: by King Murghol?
Matt: --By King Murghol. Murghol and Queen Ulara.
Liam: From our vantage point can we see the two lava flows that we were warned about?
Matt: It is way too far away. That stronghold is probably a good mile and a half away from you right now.
Laura: So, there is a lot of cover as we go near it because of all the…?
Matt: There is a lot of cover, yes, but it’s a lot of open area with cover, so it’s one of those you’re just going to have to be careful as you move through.
Sam: Percy.
Laura: It’s pretty dark here, right?
Taliesin: Yes?
Sam: How long would it take you to make a nuclear weapon?
Matt: Yes, it’s pretty dark here, the only reason you can see much is because of the low light vision.
Taliesin: A very long time. If I start it right now..
Matt: Even at this radius, things you could see nearby, a light source would be very helpful in making sure that you can see details and not fall in anything you don’t want to, but it also makes you very visible to anything else out there, so you have to decide.
Liam: Between the lava and the red stones, the twins can see, correct? Because of the dim light.
Matt: You can see near, but these are things that are a mile away.
Laura: But nothing at a distance.
Liam: Right, right, right.
Matt: It’s way too far away. The reason you can make out this small city and Emberhold itself is because there are clusters of the red glowstone used within that city and the giant magma fall that currently envelops the sides of the stronghold, making it very, very visible and easy to pick out against the rest of the cavern.
Ashley: So this is a whole little city down here.
Liam: Yes.
Matt: About a mile off, yeah.
Laura: So we should keep to the left and head down that direction and try to--
Marisha: I'm actually gonna go ahead and cast Pass Without A Trace.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: (whispering) What does that do?
Marisha: (whispering) It makes us really stealthy.
Sam: Oh, cool!
Orion: It's the thing that saved our butts last time.
Liam: It quiets your parts.
Matt: You've seen this before. As she finishes her incantation, you feel the darkness of the shadows around you begin to coalesce and almost stick to you. Although there's no substance, for a moment you almost find yourself repulsed by it, until you realize that it's probably an advantageous circumstance. But you find yourself now much easier to slip into the surrounding shadows.
Marisha: They're nice shadows.
Travis: And I'm doing my flower girl routine with the dust of tracelessness. Just over here, over there, put a little on Pike.
Taliesin: We don't really need - Well...
Travis: What? We've got a really large amount.
Orion: You never know, Percy, he does it all the time. We don't know how many times it's saved us.
Marisha: (laughing) We've got a really large amount.
Taliesin: I suppose that's fair.
Sam: What's our angle here, gents?
Liam: We need to get closer up. We need to find this trap door, because it's suicide going in the front.
Laura: Right. And Lady Kima's being held here.
Sam: So there's an entrance to this trap door that possibly is on the outskirts of the city?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: Yes.
Sam: So we need to find it.
Laura: Yes, it's on the left.
Sam: Oh, it's on the left?
Laura: Yes, so we're heading left and going--
Sam: Let's do it!
Liam: The twins will creep - continue ahead.
Ashley: Yeah, you guys real stealthy, so--
Travis: Yeah, keep creeping, keep creeping.
Ashley: --Probably smart that you're moving ahead.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: I'll take point on the group that's following.
Matt: All right.
Laura: You guys take care of Trinket as I'm ahead of you.
Ashley: Come on, Trinket.
Travis: (growling sounds) Me and Trinket are telling jokes in the back of the group.
Sam: Quietly.
Marisha: Classic Trinket.
Matt: All right. You guys continue staying off the main path and you can see there is about a 20-foot natural formation of a walkway or at least where most of the patrols and any sort of duergar foot travel is localized. You can see where that natural road has been created over time. You avoid that path and steer off to the left, dodging between the various bits of terrain. And it's a very rocky and difficult terrain should you not be with your ranger, who has the Underdark as her favored terrain.
Laura: Oh, I'll go back, then. Should I? Or is it okay because we're all together?
Matt: It's okay because you guys are in theory together. I'm going to say essentially you're just marking places where the terrain would be dangerous, to watch your step and to be wary of any locations that might be unsafe for load bearing, anything like that.
Travis: Yeah, I saw that look. You calling me load bearing? (all laugh)
Matt: Yes!
Travis: That's honest.
Matt: Specific. As you guys begin to curve around the left, everyone roll a perception check real fast.
Sam: Oh, snap.
Travis: Prepare for a natural... lap.
Orion: With our proficiency bonus?
Matt: Only if you're proficient with perception.
Sam: I can't read the dice. It's either a 6 or a 9. No idea.
Orion: 15.
Matt: Is there a dot on the bottom?
Sam: Oh, that's the bottom?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: It's a 6! (all laugh)
Ashley: Oh, Scanlan!
Marisha: 16.
Orion: 15.
Taliesin: 24.
Travis: 9.
Ashley: 19.
Laura: 20.
Liam: 25.
Matt: All right. Both Percy and Vax simultaneously put their arms out to hold everyone back as you instinctively--
Liam: Dtdtdt!
Matt: --You hear a slight distant clanking of metal and voices. Low, kind of conversational voices. Too far for you to listen at this point. But you guys immediately stop everyone. And you can just see, over maybe a good 70, 80 feet from your distance, heading up the path you guys had just began to skirt around, a small, what looks like a roving patrol of duergar. Probably the ones that go up and down the tunnel.
Laura: I can ambush them!
Sam: Ambush them?
Laura: Yeah, yeah, yeah!
Taliesin: (whispering) Let them pass.
Sam: Why don't we create a distraction and get rid of them?
Laura: Well, okay, but I can - (whispering) I can be really quiet. I can do Hide In Plain Sight now. So, I could completely hide myself standing there.
Sam: How many are there? Are you gonna kill--
Matt: No one's seen them, you can just hear them. No one's gone to check.
Laura: Oh! Can I look?
Liam: Yes, let's go look.
Matt: You can.
Laura: Okay, let's look.
Liam: Let's go catch one.
Marisha: (quietly) Can we not just hide?
Matt: Just the two of you?
Orion: How far away are we from them? Like, in distance?
Matt: Right now? You're guessing about 80 to 70 feet, but closing fast. Not closing directly on you, because they're doing a slightly different path.
Laura: (whispering) Everybody stay quiet.
Taliesin: They're taking the path that we're not on, right?
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: So, if we hide--
Laura: They won't find us.
Taliesin: --They won't find us.
Laura: Potentially.
Orion: And they can just pass.
Laura: But I want to hear what they're saying.
Matt: Okay, so all of you guys, who's--
Marisha: We'll all hide. I go ahead and cast Guidance on Vax.
Laura: What does that mean?
Liam: Vex.
Matt: Is that a concentration spell?
Laura: I'm Vex, he's Vax. We look alike, it's understandable.
Matt: Just checking if it’s concentration or not, because that will definitely break your other spell. I'll pull it up here real fast.
Laura: Oh, no, then don't. Keep Pass Without A Trace.
Travis: Well, we could just get this party started right here, if we want to.
Marisha: Let me see, it might just be--
Matt: Guidance is concentration.
Marisha: No, sorry, you don't have my guidance.
Laura: That's okay, that’s okay.
Marisha: No guidance here.
Liam: Why don't we go just up ahead and scout?
Laura: Just a little bit ahead and see what we can see.
Matt: Okay. So, the two of you kind of work up. As the rest of you are holding back, the twins slink between the various rock formations and strange, jagged spires that are currently peppering this entire underground landscape. You get up to a point where you're maybe 10 feet from the road and with your backs against the rock, you can begin to see the roving band slowly move around.
Sam: (whispering) Band?
Matt: The band of duergar. You count, at quick glance, roughly 12 to 15.
Marisha: Oh, yeah...
Matt: Armed with hammers, halberds, um... Both of you guys roll a perception check right now.
Liam: Perception check.
Matt: Perception check. Specific for this one.
Liam: 26.
Laura: 17.
Matt: You make out that one of them holds no weapons. Instead is dressed in--
Laura: Wait, no! I get advantage on perception, because I'm in my favored terrain.
Matt: There you go.
Liam: I already perceived it.
Laura: Oh, yeah, never mind, okay. (all laugh)
Matt: You can also perceive, I suppose.
Orion: (whispering) I already perceived it.
Matt: One of the duergar walking alongside is completely bald on top with this extremely long, well sculpted, black goatee beard that streams down. Thick black and red trimmed robes. Carries no weapons and looks extremely dangerous. However, as you're listening to the conversation, you specifically, being able to understand Undercommon--
Laura: Yes.
Liam: What is he saying?
Laura: Hold on.
Matt: --You pick up bits and pieces as they begin to pass by. You hold your breath, hoping nobody notices you, and so far so good. They begin to walk slowly past the rock you guys are against. You overhear one of them say: "Well, keep your eyes peeled, eh. That thing is still out there." And the other one slaps him and says: "Horek says that it ate a whole scouting party in seconds." Another one goes: "Listening to Horek was your first mistake. Shut up and keep walking." And they all keep pushing. At which point, the same scared one from before says: "I mean, if that one went crazy, well, can't the other ones crack, too? I don't know if I feel safe around any of K'varn's pets anymore at this rate." And by that point, they begin to slowly move past and their voices begin to fade, as they continue up the path you guys just traversed down.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: Up to the lava tunnels.
Laura: Oh shit.
Travis: Good thing I was clearing our footprints. (all laugh)
Matt: It's actually a very good thing.
Sam: It's a win for Grog.
Travis: (high-pitched voice) Is it? Did I do something good?
Liam: Good job, dummy.
Marisha: (laughing) Did I do something good?
Matt: You guys have, like, bear tracks and a giant goliath, like, what-- (laughs)
Orion: These are amazing.
Marisha: What are they?
Laura: Fried banana.
Marisha: Oh! That's fun.
Matt: Fried bananas? Toss me one of those. Is that from the chat?
Sam: You're working. You don't have time to eat.
Zac: (off screen) Yes, the chat room.
Matt: Thank you, chatroom.
Laura: Thank you, chatroom.
Marisha: Thank you.
Orion: Thanks so much.
Matt: I know it's not a piece of pizza, guys, but I'll do what I can. (all laugh)
Sam: Next time, sushi. Sushi.
Zac: (off screen) Instajur and somebody who didn't put their name on it.
Matt: (disappointed) Oh.
Orion: Instajur and mystery guy, thanks!
Zac: Coleson sent the pizza.
All: Thank you!
Ashley: Oh my god, that's so good.
Matt: The sound of the duergar walking eventually fades and you feel pretty confident that you're safe to return to the rest of the party.
Laura: Okay. So, we walk back. So, apparently, number one, big party, we don't want to fight them if we don't have to. Secondly, there's some weirdo creature that's gotten loose and is very, very bad and it's killed multiple duergar already.
Liam: Quickly.
Laura: That might be the thing--
Sam: No indication of what kind of a creature it was?
Laura: No, but it might be the thing we already killed. It could've been the thing with the plate that showed up in the camp, I don't know.
Sam: The thing with the plate?
Ashley: The thing in the red rider wagon.
Travis: The bullet, the bullet.
Laura: The big thing.
Travis: Bulette.
Marisha: Bulé.
Sam: Oh!
Laura: It could've been that, I'm not sure.
Travis: It's a French dog.
Marisha: It’s French, yeah.
Laura: Regardless, we should be very careful, traveling forward.
Taliesin: I've seen your sheet, you don't speak French.
Sam: We could use that to our advantage.
Orion: We could! We could. We could scare them off quite easily.
Marisha: I had a grandmother who did, okay?
Laura: I like the way you think. All right.
Orion: I can make funny sounds.
Laura: Should we keep moving forward at a very stealthy sort of pace?
Orion: Waka waka.
Matt: Certainly.
Taliesin: The stealthy mix.
Matt: You guys push forward, keeping that wide, kind of left curve, which adds a fair amount of time to your travel, as you're being careful and moving at a very very heavy, circular arc around the duergar city.
Sam: I'm looking for doors and stuff as we go. I don't know why.
Matt: Sure! Looking for doors!
Sam: Well, there's a trap door somewhere, right?
Orion: (old man voice) There’s doors in them there caves.
Matt: Good thinking.
Liam: That'll be the fortress, maybe, but--
Laura: Possibly. Could be farther. Can we see the molten things that he was talking about? The lava flows?
Matt: Still too far away.
Laura: Still too far away.
Matt: As you begin to make your way around, you're just starting to get to the point where you can see the front of the fortress. And you can see where the magma fall splits and just coalesces around each side of the stronghold. Almost like a blanket waterfall on each side. It does split up at certain points, you can begin to start making it out.
Taliesin: Where does the magma runoff lead to? Does it just pour out? Does it fill a moat?
Matt: It's hard to tell from this distance, unfortunately. You'd have to get closer up to see. About an hour of travel around the side--
Laura: Oh wow.
Liam: I’m so bored.
Laura: (laughs) Don't say that.
Matt: (laughs) That can be fixed, Liam. (all laugh)
Taliesin: If only there were a way to just speed up this exposition somehow.
Travis: Of all the things.
Matt: Indeed.
Taliesin: Life isn't like that.
Orion: Wow, Percy!
Taliesin: Sorry. (all laugh)
Laura: (whispering) Be quiet.
Matt: It's at this point, immediately catching your eye, Vex, one of the nearby obsidian spires is a different color than the rest. The rest are like a deep black, glass shiny color. This one is a dull crimson.
Laura: Ooh! We should go towards that one.
Sam: Because it's a different color?
Liam: Let's go check it out.
Marisha: Wait, what was the first color? I was still laughing at Percy. What?
Liam: Just eat your banana, the twins will go check it out.
Matt: Black obsidian, this was red--
Marisha: (laughing) Red, okay.
Matt: --crimson, ruddy, anyway.
Taliesin: Do you not know anything?
Liam: The twins are gonna go have a peek.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I'm coming with.
Matt: Scanlan comes with. Go ahead and roll a stealth check.
Sam: Oh boy. (laughs)
Taliesin: I'm not coming with.
Sam: Not my strong suit.
Travis: Don't fuck it up.
Laura: No, Scanlan, what did you do?
Liam: You dick!
Travis: Did you?
Marisha: What did you do? (all laugh)
Orion: You can change your mind.
Ashley: Wait, wait, I go and--
Sam: I've got advantage, don't I?
Ashley: --I grab Scanlan and I kiss him on the cheek and make him stay. (all gasp and exclaim)
Orion: What?!
Taliesin: Way to take one for the team.
Orion: Oh no.
Travis: I don't know.
Liam: You just stopped him from farting into his flute.
Ashley: Persuasion? That would be...
Orion: Ladies and gentlemen, this is a huge moment.
Marisha: Can you roll a persuasion against a critical fail? Can you? Can you persuade a crit fail?
Laura: Can you persuade the DM?
Ashley: Wait, is it a fail?
Marisha: (laughing) Can you persuade the DM?
Ashley: It is a 1?
Matt: Okay, so it was a 1--
Sam: It was a 1.
Liam: That's a 1 face. (all laugh)
Liam: That's a 1 face.
Matt: I will say, Pike, roll a perception check.
Orion: d20!
Laura: Come on, come on, d20.
Ashley: Perception?
Liam: Yes, d20. Uh, that's a half a d20.
Ashley: 14?
Laura: (soft, high voice) No, no... yes, 14. (all laugh)
Sam: I don't know.
Laura: I'll stop.
Matt: Unfortunately, you're not quite perceptive enough to notice Scanlan's not quite so quiet walking away, as you're distracted by the surroundings and the circumstance locally. You continue up with the twins, absentmindedly humming to yourself.
Sam: (sings softly)
Matt: The twins, being used to your humming, for some reason it doesn't connect. You make your way up to the spire. At about 15, 20 feet out, you notice the coloration is different, because it is completely coated in what looks like dried blood of some kind.
Liam: Fuck.
Laura: (gasps) Oh god.
Matt: And immediately to the right of it, along the ground--
Orion: So grossed out.
Matt: --currently your vision is obscured by another, large kind of twisted stalactite, but there appears to be an arm and a whole bunch more dried blood across the ground, just out of view.
Laura: (gasps) Stop! Can we stop? Can we stop?
Matt: You can stop.
Marisha: An arm?
Laura: Scanlan. Shh.
Sam: What? What?
Laura: (whispering) You're singing.
Sam: I was singing? (whispering) I was singing? I didn't even know! It's a force of habit!
Liam: I'm going to see if I can see anything in the area that has done this recently.
Laura: Is the arm attached to whatever did--
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Liam: Investigation check?
Laura: --Is the arm part of a dead thing or is it alive?
Matt: It's on the ground.
Travis: I'm pretty sure whatever it is, it's dead.
Liam: 7.
Matt: 7?
Laura: Can I check it out as well? I mean, I'm there, I might as well.
Matt: You can also attempt to make an investigation check.
Liam: Clever. There you go.
Laura: Wait, I'm doing advantage, too, just in case. Okay, that one's better.
Liam: Oh, I can get advantage?
Sam: You get advantage on investigation?
Laura: No, I got it because I'm fucking in my favored terrain. (all laugh)
Laura: 21.
Marisha: You walk up in this terrain.
Matt: The state of the blood that you see around seems to indicate that this has transpired over some time. You're guessing probably within a few days, if not a week, since this happened.
Liam: I'm picking up one of the arms--
Laura: (Gasps)
Liam: --to bring back to the group.
Matt: Okay, so as you walk up towards the arm to grab it, you have more of a view of what's happened. And what you see before you are definitely remnants of some battle long past.
Laura: This is the skelly pile.
Matt: Against these rocky formations there's dried blood everywhere.
Liam: Not pretty.
Matt: This terrible bloodbath, whatever this event was, it was probably a horrible thing to see. There are pieces of duergar flung about. And I say pieces - the only reason you know duergar were there is because occasionally you see part of a head, or part of a foot. And you recognize the ashy skin from the areas that aren't currently caked with its own gore.
Liam: (gagging sounds)
Matt: From what you can tell, because of your investigation check, the remains are torn apart by no blade. There's no cuts, there's no clean wounds. They're either pulled apart by force--
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: --like, arms and limbs were wrenched from the body just out of sheer power.
Travis: Like a Wookiee.
Matt: Or there appears to be some sort of gnawing, some chewing, like toothy fangs, sharp teeth have partially eaten portions of these bodies.
Liam: This is the work of a beaver.
Laura: Yes, definitely, a very large beaver.
Orion: A busy beaver.
Sam: I think it's suicide. (all laugh)
Laura: Based on tracking and everything and insight, can we tell if that creature is anywhere nearby? Or if it's gone?
Orion: I think it might be foul play, actually.
Matt: From what you can tell--
Liam: It happened in the past.
Matt: --Yeah, it happened quite some time ago. Looking at the tracks, you can see duergar feet, you can see other creatures that resemble those hook horrors that you encountered earlier during the lava pool. However, there's a series of tracks that you haven't seen. Well, there is very erratic footsteps that look human size, but they seem to be placed randomly, like one foot here, one foot here, one foot here.
Laura: (gasps) It's that big creature that - it was like one of those things that that thing put together, like--
Matt: And you see what seem like strange strikes through the sand, like someone had been dragged very quickly in a very localized spot, scattered all about.
Liam: It's a human centipede.
Sam: It is. It's a human centipede.
Matt: It's a very strange pattern that you can't really grasp what kind of creature would make it.
Laura: And it seems like it was here recently, or a while ago?
Matt: Best you can tell, the last time it was here was about two or three days ago, to feast on more of the remains.
Liam: Human? Human footprints?
Laura: Should we get out of here?
Matt: Human sized.
Liam: Human sized.
Travis: Or set a trap.
Laura: We could try to set a trap, or we could look and see if we can loot anything? Is there anything to loot? Does it look like anything shiny?
Matt: Any semblance of armor that belonged to any of these individuals is in such tatters that it's unusable. You do manage to find, across some of the body parts, a couple of blood-soaked gold coin purses.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: Take it.
Laura: I like gold.
Matt: One of them contains a handful of gems.
Laura: Ooh!
Marisha: Gems.
Matt: Yes, those right there. So you can mark that down, until you get a chance to appraise them.
Liam: I don't think we want to tangle with this. What are we trying to prove? Let's just keep trucking.
Sam: I'm really bad at stealthing, we should go. (all laugh)
Sam: We should leave.
Liam: Also, put the accordion back in the bag, all right?
Sam: Was I doing that? It's force of habit, I don't - it's like breathing.
Liam: Yeah, we're going to go back to the group, I'm going to bring the arm.
Travis: I take out the cask of ale and pour a little tankard of ale, just because I'm bored.
Ashley: Have a sip sip.
Matt: Good man. Well done. It's very tasty.
Travis: Would anyone else like a sip? Keyleth?
Matt: Having been underground for what probably amounts now to four or five days, that little taste of ale on your lips is a very welcoming and very refreshing sensation.
Travis: It's good shit, right?
Ashley: Oh, delicious. Oh no, I'm drunk! Just kidding. (all laugh)
Ashley: That was fast! Just kidding.
Liam: When we get back to the group, I'm going to toss the arm to Grog.
Matt: Grog, you instinctively reach up and catch it. You look down and see what looks like a duergar arm that has been very heavily mangled.
Travis: Oh! Thanks for the hand! (all laugh)
Liam: It's a back scratcher.
Orion: That was clever, Grog!
Laura: Well, we killed a lot of duergar this time.
Travis: Don't negative anything. It was a good joke. (all laugh)
Matt: It was a good joke. I considered it, but no.
Travis: Have mercy!
Orion: That was a good joke.
Laura: There's a big centipede-y human, creepy creature that's killed a lot of things and we should probably avoid that at all costs.
Orion: I would agree with that.
Liam: If we have to, we will, but--
Taliesin: That seems fair.
Laura: Can we avoid that and still head left of the keep?
Matt: You haven't seen a creature.
Sam: Wait, we didn't make it into the - was there a structure that we could have entered?
Laura: That's where we're going.
Liam: You're heading towards that structure.
Matt: You're heading towards that structure.
Sam: Okay. But I mean, where we just were?
Orion: The magma fortress.
Matt: Where you just were? No, there's just all these giant rocky spires jutting out of the ground.
Liam: Spike coated in dried blood.
Sam: They didn't have doors in them?
Laura: Should we probably have looked for like a nest?
Matt: There were no doors.
Sam: Okay, good. I'm looking for a door!
Liam: No, we should just keep going. If we're going to run into it, we're going to run into it. Let's not find it.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: It appears like there was, at one point in time, some very intense seismic activity in this area that created this cavern, and whatever is the source of a lot of this perpetually flowing, molten rock. That's why the entire terrain here is so dangerous and uninviting, is because of the sheer force that went into its creation.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: So we should just keep freaking being careful and keep going towards the giant thing.
Sam: Okay. Let's go.
Ashley: Keep trucking on.
Sam: Pike, I have this weird feeling, like you wanted to make out with me. Is that something that happened? Am I dreaming?
Ashley: Well, you just, you know, you weren't paying attention.
Sam: Really?
Laura: And that makes you want to make out with him?
Ashley: No, I think you were moving along to try to go stealth and sometimes you should just stay put and see what happens. (all laugh)
Orion: Well said, cleric!
Liam: That was the most adorable diss in history. (all laugh)
Taliesin: That was cold.
Sam: All right.
Orion: Yet inviting.
Travis: It's all right, Scanlan. We'll go pay for it later. (all laugh)
Matt: A small hit to Scanlan's morale, but the party marches on.
Liam: You lose an inspiration die. (all laugh)
Travis: Disadvantage on whatever roll.
Sam: I deserved it, I deserved it.
Liam: Okay, twins in front, here we go.
Laura: Let's keep going.
Matt: Twins in front. You guys continue to push forward. For the sake of the length of this journey, I'm going to have the party go ahead and roll a communal stealth check once more.
Marisha: I still have Pass Without A Trace up.
Taliesin: Oh, for the love of god.
Marisha: Which gives everyone a plus 10.
Laura: Oh, really?!
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Percy! Don't bang the guns together.
Taliesin: Yeah, that happened too.
Orion: 24.
Matt: 24?
Sam: 19.
Liam: We all have plus 10?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: And this is plus 10, already?
Sam: Yes.
Taliesin: I rolled a 1.
Matt: Okay. (all groan)
Laura: Oh, Percy!
Sam: I kiss Percy! (all laugh)
Taliesin: What?! Ah!
Sam: I don’t know! I thought it might help.
Orion: You have to use the tongue, Scanlan.
Marisha: 23.
Sam: Is that bubblegum?
Matt: Okay. Grog?
Travis: 26.
Ashley: 3.
Taliesin: I have a habit.
Laura: (gasps) You have a plus 10.
Ashley: Oh! I get to do plus 10 bonus to that?
Matt: Yes.
Ashley: 13!
Matt: All right, so that's three failures.
Laura: 30.
Marisha: Three failures?
Liam: 32.
Matt: Okay, good.
Taliesin: (relieved) Ah!
Matt: More than half you guys succeeded. That bit is key. A one is two failures.
Laura: Oh no!
Ashley: I'm not stealthy, man.
Marisha: A one is two failures?
Matt: A one is considered two failures for this challenge. Pushing forward--
Taliesin: Now you roll well.
Matt: --you manage to stop Percy and find out the root of this audio problem. Pushing forward, you manage to make your way about a quarter mile on the outskirts of this cluster of buildings. Curving far left, you're just managing to keep out of the city proper and move straight towards the very back wall of this cavern, which is buttressed against - what this fortress is built against. So you're circumventing the city to go straight to this fortress. As you're moving, about a quarter mile from the stronghold, Vex, you pick up a strange person standing maybe about 50, 60 feet ahead of you.
Laura: Just a person?
Matt: Just a person, it looks like.
Laura: (worried laughter)
Orion: (worried laughter)
Laura: Can they see us? Does it look like they can see us?
Matt: You take a moment, keeping an eye out, and the person isn't moving. Just standing right there.
Laura: (whispering) So. There's a person standing right there.
Marisha: (whispering) What?
Laura: (whispering) A person. He's just standing there.
Matt: It's too dark to make out any details, unfortunately.
Laura: No. Hmm.
Sam: Could be good, could be bad. We have no idea.
Liam: Can I see him now that she's pointed him out to me?
Sam: I can hold him. Might piss him off.
Travis: At least do the hold.
Matt: You can see it. And there is a humanoid, standing on its own.
Liam: It doesn't seem to be moving, though.
Laura: Maybe it's a scarecrow?
Liam: Maybe it's a statue.
Laura: Yeah, that's what I mean.
Travis: A statue?
Sam: Want me to go check it out?
Liam: No! I don’t!
Laura: Can't you go invisible?
Sam: Yes, I can go invisible.
Laura: Go invisible and check it out.
Sam: I polymorph and turn into a fly and I buzz over.
Marisha: Oh, yay! That's fun.
Liam: Good job, gnome nuts.
Laura: Oh no, if he's magic, he's going to know.
Sam: It's all right. I've got magic, too.
Matt: You approach this individual and notice it is unmoving and is of a singular, solid color.
Laura: (whispering) It's a statue.
Matt: What looks to be what is an illithid or a mind flayer is currently locked in some sort of reactionary position, but is completely turned to stone.
Laura: Oh no!
Marisha: Oh shit.
Sam: Like a Medusa type of a thing?
Liam: We faced basilisks once and they did this to Vex'ahlia.
Travis: We've got basilisk eggs.
Marisha: There's a lot of things that can do this, actually, to be fair.
Laura: We do have basilisk eggs in the bag of holding.
Travis: Yeah, we’ve got eight of them. Maybe we should crack one on statue guy.
Sam: I buzz back to the group. (buzzing)
Laura: Oh, what's that? Oh, it's Scanlan.
Sam: I kind of fuck with Tiberius's ear a little bit. (all laugh)
Orion: Oh, Scanlan, stop it!
Sam: And I turn back. (all laugh)
Travis: Well, what did you see?
Laura: What was it?
Sam: A crazy statue of a crazy illithid.
Liam: That's crazy.
Laura: Can we look at Clarota and say "Do you know anything about this?"
Matt: Clarota kind of thinks for a second and goes (breathy, raspy voice) "As far as I've noticed, occasionally these patrols do walk with a lizard creature that has this ability. It's generally used as a threatening device or a guardian amongst the city."
Marisha: Oh! So the duergar--
Laura: Have basilisks.
Marisha: --have this as, like, their pets?
Matt: "A trained beast, yes."
Liam: Why do you suppose they used it on one of their own?
Matt: "I can only imagine maybe this transpired before the union and is left as a warning."
Liam: So it's a duergar pet?
Laura: Do we remember how to take care of basilisks? Like, do we not look at them, is that how they don't--
Liam: Don't look at them. That's correct.
Laura: Don't look them in the eye? Or don't look at their face?
Liam: Yes, that's it. It's a vision thing.
Laura: Yes?
Taliesin: Yes, I believe it's vision based.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: This would be a nature check.
Taliesin: Double check.
Matt: For anyone who wishes to make one.
Marisha: I'll do that.
Travis: Me too. (all laugh)
Taliesin: 23. Natural 20.
Laura: Oh, well, never mind. He's got it.
Orion: Very good, yay!
Marisha: Oh, well, I'll stop there.
Travis: Just go ahead and dunk on everybody, why don't you?
Matt: Natural 20. Essentially it is a sight-based circumstance.
Taliesin: It's entirely visual. They have to catch your gaze and then that is how they can turn you into stone. Otherwise, as long as you don't catch their gaze, you'll be fine.
Laura: All right.
Liam: All right. It's a good thing we've all been watching Daredevil last week.
Travis: So, look them in the eye? Got it. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Yes! Very helpful.
Travis: Let's go.
Marisha: Poor basilisks. Can never make eye contact.
Sam: We're going on?
Travis: Yeah!
Laura: Yeah, let's keep going.
Matt: As you guys push forward, Clarota lags behind a little bit to inspect the statue. Kind of looks it over for a second--
Laura: Did you know him?
Matt: (low, breathy voice) "Uh…"
Sam: Dave.
Matt: (laughing) Goddamn it! (all laugh)
Orion: I don't think his name was Dave, Scanlan.
Matt: He takes a moment to look over and you can see his eyes close slightly for a second. (raspy, breathy voice) "Aye, we've met. Not the kindest of my people, but, nevertheless, should all this pass, I would like to, maybe, release him from this stony prison."
Laura: So you know how to do that?
Matt: "I know not, but it can be done. I've seen it."
Laura: Didn't we do that?
Orion: Yes.
Laura: Didn't we have to do that?
Liam: We sprinkled some of its blood on your eyes, if I remember correctly.
Orion: Yes!
Laura: I turned to stone?
Matt: You did.
Liam: You did. I was very sad.
Orion: Yes, that's correct. We used the blood of the creature.
Laura: I remember, I remember. Yeah, I remember that.
Matt: Essentially, there is a liquid that can be distilled from the basilisk blood.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: We don't have any more of that.
Matt: You do not.
Laura: Okay. So we'll be careful.
Travis: Dragon blood for fucking days.
Liam: We also don't know if it's a basilisk.
Sam: Should we move this statue off to a safe place, inside or anything?
Laura: Nah, fuck it.
Sam: It's fine here, it's fine.
Liam: No, it's heavy.
Laura: Let's just keep going.
Marisha: It's been there for a while.
Taliesin: Let's not give anybody any indication we've been here.
Laura: It's got bat poo on it, let's keep going.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: As you guys press forward, about another 20 or so minutes, you now have a much better view of the left side of Emberhold proper. And you can see the large magma fall that is pouring over the top of the fortress's second story and completely encompasses that side. It splits and divides towards the center - a larger fall towards the front of the fortress and a thinner one towards the very back.
Laura: (whispering) Thin one! Thin one!
Travis: Yeah, let's go towards the door.
Liam: All right, creeping back.
Laura: Yeah! Creepy, creepy, creepy towards the thin one.
Liam: The creeps are creeping.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: We're in stealth, still, or...?
Travis: Yeah, we're all stealthed.
Matt: For you, it'd be stealth. Yeah, you guys are all stealthed still.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: We're rolling again?
Liam: 26.
Laura: You don't to need check it again, he didn't tell us to.
Liam: Oh. Well, I said I wanted to go back and look.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: So you move ahead of the rest of the group and head to the front of this stream. And you can see the smooth wall with molten rock pouring down the side, and you can see where portions of the stone have been gradually worn and melted by just the contact, but then built upon by more and more cooled rock. This is a very weird clustered framing of cooled rock around this fall. You see no doorway, as the actual magma is pressing directly against the side of the stronghold.
Liam: Right, I want to see if I can tell if anything - I know this all looks natural, but perhaps something is fashioned to look such. I want to see if I can figure that out.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make an investigate check.
Liam: Uh, lalalala. 18.
Matt: 18? Best that you can find, looking around, you cannot see anything before you, any sort of mechanism, any sort of any button, any sort of lever, or additional doorway. It's just a solid wall, with the two magma flows.
Liam: All right. I double back for the Underdark expert and I bring my sister up.
Laura: Right, right, right. Can I come up and look and see if I can see any tracking? If there's any footprints around a certain area around this.
Liam: See if you can find a false door or something.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and make an investigate check.
Liam: Do it. Do it.
Marisha: Wait, I thought it was behind--
Liam: No!
Laura: It's okay, no, no, no! I get an advantage.
Liam: It was a 1.
Laura: Shush.
Liam: All right. That's not a 1.
Marisha: (laughs)
Laura: Is it investigation?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: 22.
Matt: Okay. Looking at this, the side of this fortress, you can see what amounts to a very, very slight raise in the smooth flow of magma. It seems to pour down most of the stronghold and then slightly bulge out, and then it pools, and you can now have a better, closer so you see where it runs off to. It continues into a stream following the edge of the giant cavern wall that's curving down and to the left into a far deeper cavern. You can see the entire cavern, almost like a giant U. It's open, and the entire thing banks around it and goes deeper still. You guys have made it to the far back wall.
Laura: (gasps, sighs)
Matt: Ah, the chicken has arrived.
Sam: (laughs) Metaphorically...
Matt: Metaphorically, and actually. But from what you can see there is a slight raise beneath the magma.
Laura: Okay. Does it look like it's safe to bring everybody up here or does it seem like anything's around that could see us? Anything looking from above?
Matt: You glance up and you can see there are two duergar perched up on the edge of the first floor, right on the parapet. You can see there's all this jagged, obsidian stone, almost teeth, sticking out of the very top edge of the wall. And you see the patrols just walking, keeping an eye out. They have crossbows on their arms. A couple of others just have javelins at the side. And they're just doing slow patrols.
Laura: Okay.
Sam: We need to 007--
Laura: We're going to have to be super--
Sam: We're going to have to 007 sniper them out.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: I can handle this, I think.
Laura: You can?
Marisha: I think I can get us into that trap door.
Sam: I think you're right.
Laura: Do you have something that can pull it towards you?
Sam: No no no, can you redirect the magma flow around that bulge with your - can't you, move rocks or--
Marisha: I can.
Sam: So you can create a like a little lip for it to go around?
Laura: Ooh...
Marisha: I was thinking I could either do - that's not a bad idea, or I could - That's actually not a bad idea. (all laugh)
Matt: (singing) That's fucking teamwork. (all laugh)
Marisha: Or I could, or I was thinking I could cool off the magma and we could break it.
Laura: Oh yeah, maybe you can move it away, and then cool it.
Liam: That sounds kind of noisy.
Marisha: Well...
Sam: First we’ve got to take care of the guys on the roof. Are they back with us, or are they still stealthing in front?
Matt: They're still stealthing in front, and you guys have come back to the group?
Laura: Yeah, I guess we came back to the group and told them about what's going on.
Sam: Okay. We can - me and Pike - can take out the guys on the roof.
Laura: Oh really?
Travis: Yeah! Do it!
Ashley: You want to give it a go?
Laura: Wait, but he's got sneak attack.
Liam: Yeah, I'm thinking that Keyleth should--
Laura: Yeah but we could--
Sam: Yeah, but they're a good 200 feet up.
Liam: --bird out and drop me.
Laura: If Keyleth can bird up or you could go over on the flying carpet or something.
Sam: I can take Pike and we can do it.
Laura: Oh my god. (all laugh)
Marisha: Are they are they unable to be shot out? Can you not arrow them out?
Laura: I can try to arrow them out too.
Marisha: How high are they?
Liam: She can get a hit or two, but the chances that she could take them both out at once...
Laura: Maybe you should go up and I'll arrow one and you...
Travis: Why don't you let the little people have some fun?
Marisha: I'm just afraid if you go up there, that you're going to alarm yourself to other people.
Taliesin: How loud is it down there? Is the lava flow making noise?
Matt: Very subtle pops and hisses, but other than that it's pretty quiet.
Taliesin: Not like the roaring sound of a waterfall.
Matt: No, no, it's a slow gradual pour.
Taliesin: Does anybody have a "mute" spell of some kind?
Sam: Mute, as in silence noise, or a person?
Laura: I mean, Pass Without Trace, there's silence?
Taliesin: Yes, as in silence noise.
Ashley: Wait!
Sam: No, not me.
Taliesin: Damn it.
Ashley: I have - okay wait.
Matt: David Norris? Thank you David Norris for the chicken!
All: Thank you David Norris!
Laura: The chicken is delicious!
Orion: I love chicken.
Liam: Dave, the illithids have it. Thank you, Dave.
Laura: I'm just not going to let you see me eat it.
Liam: Oh my god, her mouth opens up and tentacles come out and -
Orion: It's really scary.
Marisha: Sorry, what are we doing?
Matt: It's a good question. What are you doing?
Sam: We gotta take out the fuckers on the roof.
Laura: Right.
Sam: Do you want to try to shoot them out? Or do you want me to take Pike and fuck their shit up?
Travis: Do that.
Laura: I mean, if you can flip them off the roof that would be awesome.
Sam: That's what we're going to do.
Laura: Okay, then do it.
Liam: Wait, can we see anyone else?
Ashley: We're just going to fling them off of the roof?
Liam: Can I see duergar from any other perch?
Travis: Yep, pressure's on!
Matt: From your current position, you're up against the wall, no.
Liam: No? All right.
Matt: You can back away and take up more of a case on it if you want.
Marisha: I mean if I took eagle form I could drop you and then I could just pick one up with my eagle talons and in the lava they go.
Liam: This seems dangerous and reckless.
Marisha: It does seem very dangerous and reckless.
Liam: Let's do it?
Ashley: What if it brings attention?
Liam: Who gives a shit?
Marisha: I'm keeping my Pass Without A Trace up.
Laura: We'll just have to be fast. Be really speedy.
Orion: Can they see down to where we are? Does it just keep going?
Marisha: I'm going with you guys.
Travis: It's been over an hour, we've killed nothing, we'll kill these fucks!
Matt: So far only the two of them have really approached the stronghold and you guys have stayed back behind the elevations.
Travis: I'm a vampire. I need blood.
Matt: So you can all try, in theory, if you want to just stealth past them.
Marisha: Wait, what?
Sam: Here's my plan.
Laura: Okay!
Orion: We're not with them.
Marisha: Yeah we are, we are.
Sam: I take Pike up there. We knock those fuckers off, super easy.
Travis: Yep.
Sam: Grog runs out and brains them the second they hit the ground.
Travis: I approve of this plan.
Liam: Or fall in the lava. You just gotta shove them.
Laura: Yeah, they'll fall in the lava pit, just shove them off the side.
Sam: Maybe. I don't know where they're going to fall.
Laura: Well, just do it.
Marisha: Well, if they miss they miss the lava pit, we've got Grog.
Orion: Can I just say right now--
Laura: Just be ready to let us know if you need help.
Orion: --I'm going to be reading this book.
Marisha: Eagle form.
Liam: I'm hanging by Keyleth in case shit goes south.
Laura: Oh my god this is so stupid.
Liam: Then we're going up, right?
Marisha: Jump on my back.
Sam: What you got, Pike?
Liam: Yeah, girl.
Laura: Give me the flying carpet just in case I need to fly.
Marisha: Or I can give you a ride.
Sam: I can get you up there. What can you do when we're up there?
Ashley: There's something I've been wanting to do.
Sam: Yeah!
Travis: What do you say?
Orion: Oh my word, this is fascinating!
Laura: We're doing it!
Travis: But what do you say to get the magic carpet?
Laura: Please can I have the magic carpet?
Sam: I'm going to just look at the guard's pattern of movement. Are they staying in position, or are they walking around? Are they talking to each other at all?
Travis: Ooh, good question.
Matt: As you watch, you take a moment, still from the far back position, watch the two up there come together; they chat for a second, then a third one appears.
Sam: Oh shit.
Matt: Then one of them rotates out for the one that just arrived.
Ashley: They were switching shifts.
Matt: They both just sit there, keeping an eye. One of them cleans his bow.
Sam: Are they close to each other?
Matt: They're about twenty feet from each other along the top of the parapet.
Travis: There's three? There's three, not two?
Sam: You said twenty feet?
Matt: Twenty feet, yes.
Travis: There's three up there?
Taliesin: Now there's three.
Matt: Two.
Sam: No no, one came to swap out the other.
Laura: Oh my gosh.
Travis: I’m just saying, I have been known to climb a few things in my time, if you need an extra.
Ashley: All right, let's do it.
Marisha: Are you coming too, Pike?
Ashley: Yeah! I'm a-coming up there to kill some - some things. (all laugh)
Travis: Do you have any climbing gear or anything?
Ashley: I have a grappling hook.
Liam: The ocean has changed you.
Laura: Oh my god. This is stupid.
Sam: Okay, they're standing twenty feet apart?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: I'm going to watch this all go down with Bad News.
Sam: Radius? 15 feet?
Laura: Yeah, me and you get ready to shoot.
Taliesin: I'm waiting in case--
Sam: Is the range a radius?
Marisha: So wait, who's all going?
Travis: Just those two.
Matt: No, range is how far away from you they are, and the radius is for the point of the spell.
Sam: No, I mean a range of a spell, is how far from me?
Marisha: Just those two?
Travis: Scanlan and Pike.
Laura: And you're going to bring them up if you can.
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Got it. We're good.
Liam: Are they carpeting up? How are you going up?
Marisha: Are you guys going to fly on me?
Laura: They'll fly on Keyleth.
Liam: Scanlan, how are you guys going up? Eagle? Carpet?
Sam: No.
Laura: Eagle.
Liam: What?
Travis: You're climbing that shit, aren't you?
Sam: I can get there like that. We're good.
Travis: Cliffhanger. Beautiful.
Liam: Do it, Tom Cruise.
Laura: All right, do it. Mission Impossible.
Sam: All right. You ready? Do you know what you're going to do up there?
Ashley: Not really, but let's just wing it!
Sam: I'm going to try to knock them both off in one blow, but if I miss, you gotta take one.
Laura: You can charge them off if you want.
Ashley: Okay. all right. I can take one if you can take one.
Travis: You’ve got a morningstar.
Sam: Okay.
Ashley: All right.
Travis: Morningstar to the taint.
Sam: Grog, you ready to kill?
Travis: Yeah, oh yeah!
Laura: Be really quiet while you're fighting, try to take them out before they--
Taliesin: This is awesome and nothing is going to go wrong.
Marisha: Why are we using the gnomes to throw people over?
Orion: I can't believe how they wrote this.
Sam: We’re little people! You know why? Because I need someone with me and I can only take her, because that's the only other one who will fit through the Dimension Door with me.
Laura: Go!
Ashley: The Dimension Door?
Sam: Yes, we're going to go through a Dimension Door. I can take one person of my height or smaller.
Matt: All right.
Sam: So I will take Pike.
Liam: Portal, motherfucker!
Matt: You reach over and hold on to Pike gently, give her a little wink. And suddenly--
Sam: We're going to try to appear between the two of them. Exactly between the two of them.
Matt: Okay. You feel the sudden rush of air and the surrounding atmosphere of you goes from that uncomfortable warmth to a sudden freezing cold as your vision goes black and all you can see is Scanlan looking at you with this heightened grin as he's muttering these arcane incantations under his breath. An instant later, you guys are both standing at the top of the wall, with both of the duergar, one kind of facing away, one looking really surprised at the fact that you guys both appeared there. You have a surprise round. What are you doing?
Sam: I cast Thunderwave and blast out from where I'm standing between them, 15 feet in either direction.
Laura: (whispering) That's so loud!
Marisha: Isn't that loud?
Sam: So, 10 feet and 10 feet away from me.
Matt: Okay. What's your save?
Sam: Uh, 19.
Liam: But a quiet Thunderwave, right?
Matt: 19, all right.
Laura: A really quiet Thunderwave.
Orion: Thunderclap is loud. Thunderwave is different.
Laura: Oh, okay.
Marisha: But I'm pretty sure it's still thunder.
Matt: Thunderwave, looking it up real fast just to make sure of the situation.
Travis: I like this plan.
Orion: Thunder makes a noise right?
Liam: (singing) This is a triumph.
Ashley: (singing) I'm making a note here.
All - travis - orion - liam - ahsley - matt: (singing) Huge success. (all laugh)
Matt: Here we go.
Sam: I don't think it's loud.
Liam: We're total fake geeks, all of us. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Such fake geeks.
Sam: Oh no - well, it's a wave of thunderous force, but it doesn't say sound. It just says thunderous force.
Matt: I would say thunderous force isn't a thunderclap,but it will make some noise.
Sam: Okay, fine.
Matt: So keep that in mind.
Laura: Keyleth, fly up and cast Pass Without Trace on them.
Matt: So, as you guys appear, you release Pike, you bring your arms up and slam your arms in a downward motion. As you do, there is a dull flash of light and a (boom noise) burst sound emanates from you.
Orion: I say, "Ooh, light."
Matt: Both of the duergar, the one who sees you, who is bringing us his crossbow to fire, gets impacted and blown off the side of the wall. The one facing away gets blown up towards, slams into the side of the wall, right at the edge, and then topples over the side, both plummeting over.
Liam: Wilhelm scream!
Ashley: Oh!
Matt: Brief Wilhelm scream. You're standing there, you watch this happen.
Ashley: I didn't have to do anything, Scanlan!
Sam: Make out with me! (all laugh)
Sam: We’re alone, it’s super romantic. I just killed two fuckers! Come on! It’s now or never, baby!
Travis: (singing) I think we’re alone now!
Ashley: (singing) Doesn’t seem to be anyone around! (all laugh)
Travis: (singing) Doesn’t seem to be anyone around! (all laugh)
Ashley: Well, let’s just wait until we’re out of danger.
Marisha: Yeah, it’s getting real romantic real quick, Scanlan.
Sam: Wait?
Ashley: But that was really hot!
Sam: It was really hot, right? Come on!
Ashley: It was.
Sam: Just a little something something?
Ashley: Let’s just--
Marisha: So sexy.
Matt: As this is happening, both of the duergar come plummeting off the side of the wall.
Liam: Friendzoned.
Matt: One manages to kind of loosely break his fall but the full 25 foot fall - he takes--
Laura: Get ready.
Liam: Come on, Grog.
Travis: I rage! (all laugh)
Matt: There’s one that lands just to the side of the magma pool that’s forming. He took some damage and is like (pained gasps) trying to get back up. He fell hard on one arm. The other one that’s further away from the magma, the one that saw you, managed to reduce his damage a little bit because it was aware at least you were there.
Sam: We have to kill these fuckers.
Matt: Looks like it took some damage, but not too much. It’s maybe 10 feet from you.
Travis: (eager laugh)
Matt: As he’s trying to get back up, he looks up and sees you charging towards him, Grog, raging. Go ahead and make your two attacks.
Laura: Yes!
Travis: (roars) 19.
Matt: 19 hits.
Travis: Nice. And 19 again!
Matt: Both hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Liam: I’m going to get some duergar!
Travis: 17 and 19.
Matt: So as he gets up, (grunt) he goes back for his warhammer. Before he gets a chance to, you cleave off one arm and send the axe right into the center of his torso, silencing him in an instant. He slightly spreads at the wound. (choking sound) This gurgling sound, and you just have to kick him off the edge of your axe.
Travis: I tilt him towards the pillar to spray the pillar with his gore. Look, I can make one too! Ha ha! (all laugh)
Marisha: I run across to the other one and Thorn Whip him from across the lava pool.
Matt: You have to jump over the lava to do that because he’s on the side you guys are on.
Marisha: Oh. Well then, is there anyone on the other side?
Ashley: Is he already dying, or no? He’s in the lava?
Marisha: He’s on the same side as me?
Matt: He’s on the same side as you.
Sam: He’s hurt.
Laura: We run up and kick him into the lava!
Marisha: Is he standing up or...yeah!
Matt: He’s in the process of standing up, yeah.
Laura: Can we just run up and kick him into the lava?
Marisha: Yeah, can I just run and push?
Matt: (laughs) Okay, all right, so…
Liam: I use pushing attack!
Travis: (grunts) Hunh!
Marisha: (grunts) Hunh!
Sam: (high voice) I’m sorry!
Marisha: (laughing) Yes, exactly! (all laugh)
Matt: All right, so go ahead and roll athletics.
Marisha: This is the meanest thing I’ve ever done!
Liam: (laugh)
Matt: (laugh)
Laura: No, no, remember you killed that kid one time.
Marisha: Oh, thanks for bringing that up, Vax! (all laugh)
Laura: I’m Vex, he’s Vax!
Travis: That’s some dark shit! That’s some dark shit!
Marisha: Oh, I thought it was Vex and Vax. Every time I get confused.
Matt: (laughing) It’s a long story!
Ashley: Oh my god. Remember you killed that kid one time?
Liam: Two and a half years in and Keyleth has just learned our names.
Marisha: I get them confused.
Sam: I do too. All the time.
All - travis - orion - liam - ahsley - matt: All the time.
Marisha: See, no one else has any idea!
Orion: I have your names written down!
Liam: I’m Vex, okay? It’s simple!
Sam: No, no! That is not true!
Laura: No, no, don’t do that. He’s lying.
Marisha: (laughing) Two years, and I just don’t.
Matt: So, as the terrible blood spray occurs across the nearby pillar on Grog’s side, the other duergar is getting up with his crossbow, trying to get it ready. You rush forward. Go ahead and roll athletics.
Marisha: Oh!
Ashley: Come on!
Laura: Oh no!
Orion: As she does this, I notice everything, and I sit down.
Marisha: This is for that kid!
Orion: And turn to the next chapter in my book.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: (singing) He had it coming, he had it coming.
Ashley: This is quite a good read!
Marisha: It could be worse. 14.
Matt: That’s okay. He rolled a 1.
Laura: Ooh! Yes!
Matt: So, as the duergar is getting up, he goes - (grunt) You just run up and - boom! And he falls back - (hissing SFX) (screams) - and starts giving a horrible, painful scream as he’s essentially flailing in the magma, melting.
Ashley: Someone shoot him in the mouth.
Marisha: I say, shh! Shh! Shh! And I wind down to push him under the lava!
Ashley: Oh, this is brutal!
Orion: That’s not what it’s called.
Matt: Okay. So, as he’s screaming your Wind Wall shoves him further under the magma as he’s screaming, cooling the magma around him as the rock (cracking SFX) cracks around him, turning into black rock--
Marisha: I’m sorry! I’m sorry!
Matt: --his face still visible over the surface, going (choking SFX) in this horrible, almost Han-in-carbonite type of look at the top of the magma pool.
Laura: Keyleth!
Liam: You just one-upped Grog, man.
Travis: That was awesome!
Matt: As fresh magma now begins to pool over the cool, covering his face, you step away.
Sam: Piss on the body!
Travis: I never knew you were an artist.
Marisha: (laughs nervously)
Matt: However, the subtle sound of the Thunderwave and then the horrible screams of pain, you can hear footsteps coming toward the wall edge where both you and Pike are currently on. What are you going to do?
Laura: Run! Or can you turn yourselves into duergar?
Sam: Is there a door or something?
Matt: Not from your current position, no. You’re just on a five foot ledge of the second story.
Sam: Of the fortress. Oh, it’s not a standalone tower. It’s part of a larger wall.
Ashley: How far of a jump down is it?
Matt: It’s about 25 feet.
Laura: What, am I too excited about it? Turn yourself into a duergar! Make it seem like everything’s okay!
Ashley: Should we call Grog?
Sam: No, I’ll do the same thing to get us down.
Ashley: Oh yeah, Dimension Door!
Sam: Unless you want to stay and fight.
Matt: You’ve got 20 seconds.
Marisha: Wait, what’s happening?
Ashley: We could try to stay and fight?
Liam: Turn into a duergar! (cawing sounds)
Laura: Turn into a duergar! Act like you’re a duergar! Say everything’s okay!
Ashley: Turn into a duergar?
Sam: Should we get out of here?
Ashley: Yeah, let’s get out.
Sam: Okay, we’re going to Dimension Door out.
Matt: Okay. So you grab her, (magic SFX) back down to the bottom.
Travis: Cast that shit.
Matt: They reappear at the bottom.
Orion: Are you done?
Marisha: Okay, I cast Wall of Stone, but right over top of where I see that lip. But I don't want to bring it out far. Just like, halfsies.
Sam: (laughs) Just the tip.
Marisha: Just the tip.
Ashley: Does it stop the magma?
Matt: As you guys appear at the bottom--
Marisha: So it goes like magma flow, here's the wall, I want it to go - (grinding noise)
Matt: --you guys hear footprints along the wall. They don't seem to have seen you yet. At which point there's this (grinding and thump sounds) sound of shifting rock. A giant stone wall juts out the side of the fortress right where the lava pool was pouring over the side. As it does, the lava pools on top of the wall and is offset, leaving a small gap where you guys can try to squeeze through. You can see, right underneath where it was, there is a stone doorway. It does not appear to have a handle or anything, it's just a stone door.
Sam: How do we get in?
Liam: Tiberius, fly up there quick.
Orion: What?
Liam: Stop eating chicken and fly up to that door.
Orion: Oh.
Ashley: Where did you get that chicken?
Orion: What's going on?
Liam: There's a magic doorway up there, I don't see any handles or anything.
Matt: It's right underneath the lava.
Liam: Oh, it’s on the ground?
Matt: Basically she put the stone wall out. It pours off.
Orion: It's right there! What are you talking about?
Liam: I walk up to it and take a look.
Laura: Oh yeah, that was good. Maybe Grog can push it!
Orion: I'm going to do an Arcana check.
Liam: Do I have advantage?
Matt: Uh, no.
Laura: Can Grog push it?
Liam: All right, take a look, dude.
Travis: No, he's doing an arcana check.
Sam: Grog, just kill it!
Marisha: (laughing) Go kill it, just punch the door!
Orion: 22.
Matt: 22? As you guys are inspecting this, in the time you've taken to do this, both the duergar up on top have seen you, and are both taking shots at you.
Sam: Oh shit.
Taliesin: I was waiting for that anyways so, I'm going to--
Marisha: He was waiting.
Matt: As they appear on the top, you guys who have your arrow and gun at the ready, both take a shot then they get a retribution shot.
Liam: Keyleth!
Marisha: What?
Liam: Let's go up!
Marisha: Go up?
Liam: Up to them, quick.
Marisha: I want see how they fare.
Liam: That’s going to be about 6 seconds.
Matt: The door is not magical. It is a mechanism of some kind.
Laura: 65. Oh, 65? (laughter) Shit.
Sam: I rolled a 65.
Liam: 65? Holy shit you're a deity!
Laura: I'm amazing!
Orion: Vax. Pay attention, the door mechanical, it is not magical. That's how we open it.
Laura: 25.
Matt: 25. Percy? And you get 2 attacks each. So - (zipping SFX)
Taliesin: I hit a 23.
Matt: 23 hits. Go ahead and roll second attack.
Taliesin: Okay, roll damage.
Matt: Well, roll both attacks first.
Laura: 18 for the second one.
Matt: Hits as well.
Taliesin: I have to reload with my second attack.
Matt: Oh right. Is this with the Bad News?
Taliesin: I've got the big gun out.
Matt: You’ve got the Bad News out. Okay then, yeah. So you fire and then reload. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: I'm using my fire bow.
Matt: You're using the fire bowstring. As you nock your first arrow, (swoosh sound) it bursts into flame as it hits your fingers.
Taliesin: Oh my god.
Marisha: (dejected groan)
Taliesin: 7 damage.
Matt: 7 damage? Okay.
Taliesin: I'm so embarrassed.
Matt: I'm sorry.
Liam: (gunshot sound) You got me right in the ear.
Laura: 20 damage on the first attack.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Come on, Vex.
Laura: 13 on the second.
Matt: Okay, as both are going up with their crossbows ready to go, first one, Bad News - (gunshot sound) - with a cacophonous echoing gunshot that within this cavern, definitely carries some sound to it. And to some degree, suprise may be a little harder to find going forward.
Taliesin: They were ready to start shooting at us.
Matt: However, the shot hits the guy in the shoulder, knocks him off balance for a second. Not enough of a wound to prevent his next action. You, however, place one arrow into the other guy’s shoulder. He's dropped the crossbow. As he goes to reach for his other weapon, the other one just, right at the bottom of his throat, out the back of his head, and he just drops below the wall.
Ashley: Awesome.
Matt: The other one does get a crossbow shot off at you, Percy. That is a 23 versus armor class.
Taliesin: That hits.
Matt: You take 9 points of piercing damage. As the bolt just streaks you across the front of your torso. Passes through, thankfully, but you do feel there is a wound that’s slowly turning warmer beneath your armor.
Laura: Can I shoot at the other one?
Matt: That's been the round. Now, you guys have been inspecting the door. The door is not magical. There is some sort of contraption that opens it from the inside.
Liam: I’m getting my picks out, seeing if I can figure out some way to--
Matt: Go ahead and make a check with your thieves’ tools.
Liam: 29.
Matt: A 29. You take a second and you find that the contraption that holds this door in place definitely is on the other side. It's a series of winches and a chain pull. You find that there is one slight gap where you manage to hook one of the chains, pull it out ever so slightly, and you know with a strong yank from a strong person, you could probably pull it out from the outside.
Orion: Grog!
Travis: Sounds like we need a strong person.
Liam: So this is the part where I ask Grog over to pull. Grog, grab this--
Ashley: I'll do it! I'll do it. (all laugh)
Travis: Yeah, me and Pike are on this.
Ashley: I'll assist.
Matt: Grog, you reach over and grab the chain, and Pike grabs onto the back of you and you both pull.
Travis: Give it a good heave-ho.
Matt: Go ahead and make a strength check with advantage.
Travis: Oh yeah, 23.
Matt: 23. As you pull, you hear the grinding of this chain against the stone, (cracking SFX) and you can see the actual door begin to rise upward this way.
Sam: It's a Delorean.
Matt: Essentially. When it opens up, it moves the magma out of the way. That's how this construct is used as an exit. It's what I mentioned before. This is supposed to be an exit for the royal individuals of the stronghold. It only opens part way, however, because the stone wall currently blocks the rest of its movement. However, you can still move through it.
Liam: We can't leave this duergar behind though, we gotta take him out.
Matt: Yes, there is one duergar still there. So that's been all of your guys' actions. We're bringing it back. Pike, you haven't gone yet.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: Keyleth you've gone, so the only one left to take an action is--
Marisha: Tiberius, have you gone?
Matt: Yeah, he checked the doorway.
Marisha: Oh right.
Ashley: Where's he at?
Matt: He's up on top of the wall, about 25 feet from you.
Ashley: I want to create a spiritual weapon, like a poisonous lasso, and (whiff SFX) and then put him down into the lava.
Matt: Huh. Sure. (all laugh)
Sam: A lariat of truth?
Travis: That's awesome.
Taliesin: Well, all right then.
Matt: So using your spiritual weapon, you take a moment, you grasp your Sarenrae holy symbol around your neck, and as you pull your hand away from the symbol you see this glowing celestial rope extends out of nowhere. You begin to spin your fingers, and on its own, it begins to swirl and swirl. You then throw your hand forward and on its own, it cascades upward toward the edge of the wall. Go ahead and roll an attack roll.
Ashley: An attack roll? Which is?
Matt: Using your spell modifier as the attack bonus.
Ashley: 10.
Sam: Ooh. That ain't gonna do it.
Matt: Total of 10?
Ashley: I think so. (all laugh)
Matt: What'd you roll?
Ashley: I rolled a 2, and then I have a plus 8.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: That ain't no good.
Liam: It was a good idea though.
Laura: It was such a good idea.
Matt: The celestial lasso, which you don't get the feeling poison is something you could really muster based on your deity's central good--
Ashley: I was just kidding! I was just getting a little crazy with ideas.
Matt: I like it. However, as it heads over the wall, you see it does not find purchase on the duergar. It instead finds purchase on part of the wall.
Ashley: Fuck.
Travis: Poisoning the wall effectively.
Matt: Yes, it is now a poisoned property.
Ashley: (laughs) Poisoning that wall, effectively. Gosh dang it. That would have been cool.
Matt: That would have been cool, unfortunate bad roll.
Travis: It was going to be pretty cool.
Liam: Remember it for the future though.
Matt: That brings us to the top of the round order. I believe at the top we have--
Sam: Mister Me?
Matt: Yes, Scanlan.
Sam: Okay. Boy, oh boy. We're still trying to get that fucker up on the roof right?
Liam: Yes, he's going to run and tell people.
Sam: I've got almost nothing. So I'll just - can I summon an Unseen Servant to push him? (all laugh)
Marisha: Oh yeah, that's a good idea.
Matt: We can give it a shot.
Travis: Roll high. Roll really high.
Sam: I don't have any ranged weapons.
Laura: Natural 20!
Matt: So you conjure Unseen Servant. Mark off your spell use.
Orion: I look up and go, "Ooh, It's Monty's cousin."
Matt: You see a slight shimmer of ethereal energy behind the duergar. It's going to attempt to shove him. It isn't, unfortunately, on its own, extremely strong. It's mainly meant as an aide. However, it is possible. Go ahead and make an athletics check. Not your athletics, just make a d20 roll.
Sam: Just a normal athletics.
Liam: Come on, 20.
Sam: Yeah, I mean it's a 5, so. (all laugh)
Ashley: What's your athletics? We're really rolling well tonight.
Matt: You hear a (ting) sound as the duergar's armor is given a hefty slap, but no apparent force is placed upon its body.
Orion: A hefty slap.
Sam: Thank you, Jarvis! (all laugh)
Sam: But is he confused?
Matt: A little bit, but not enough to not be loading his crossbow for a second shot.
Sam: Damn it!
Matt: Good thinking on that point.
Marisha: We're a party of 7 people just like, "Aw, damn it, you!"
Taliesin: Like a cat in a tree, just - (beckoning whistle)
Sam: And I'm going to just give a little inspiration to Vax. That's Laura, obviously. (all laugh)
Laura: Yes, thank you.
Marisha: It inverted. That's what I always get mixed.
Matt: All right, a d8 inspiration die to you as Scanlan hums a little tune under his breath.
Laura: Nice.
Sam: (hums Dueling Banjos)
Matt: You're up.
Laura: Oh! I attack him.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Pew pew.
Ashley: Pew pew!
Laura: It's good.
Liam: It's a 1.
Marisha: Damn it! What is wrong with us?
Travis: What in the hot and holy shit is happening right now?
Ashley: What are we doing?
Matt: That's your first attack?
Laura: My first attack is a serious fail. My second attack, though, is a 25.
Matt: That hits.
Marisha: That's pretty cool.
Matt: So the first one you pull back, and as you pull back the actual arrow snaps.
Liam: You almost shot me!
Laura: Ow, that hurt my arm so bad.
Matt: Yeah, you're gonna have a little rash there probably tomorrow.
Laura: Great. 8.
Matt: 8 damage, all right. Your second arrow manages to find its mark. As it sticks pretty close to where the first arrow hit, or where he was shot from the Bad News. The duergar just shrugs it off angrily, and aims his crossbow from once on Percy, now onto you.
Laura: (nervously) Haha.
Matt: It's getting its shot at you. That is a 17 versus armor class.
Laura: Nope.
Matt: Nope?
Laura: Nope.
Matt: You manage to just dodge out of the way. You hear it whiz past your ear. That brings us to Percy.
Taliesin: I'll take one more shot at him.
Liam: Redemption, Percy.
Travis: Come on, buddy.
Sam: Kill this guy.
Ashley: Get it.
Sam: He's lasted longer than most of the people we fight.
Marisha: (laughing) Yeah he has.
Taliesin: 18?
Matt: 18 hits.
Taliesin: Come on die.
Travis: Come on, Percy.
Liam: Right in the belly button.
Marisha: Oh, that's nice. That's pretty.
Taliesin: That's 25 points of damage.
Travis: Thank you!
Laura: Yes!
Matt: With a second (click), you pull out one of your custom made, nasty looking bullets, load it back into Bad News. You pull it back, aim up, and fire. And once again, you guys are seeing this weapon up close again. With each fire, it takes all of his physical body to not get blown off his feet with each time it fires.
Laura: That's badass, Percy.
Matt: (thunder crack) A plume of white and ash-like smoke comes shooting out the side of the weapon. Nearby, you almost have to close your ears instinctually from the loudness of the shot. However, the duergar at the top of the wall, you see where his head once was just (wet impact SFX) across the wall behind it.
Ashley: I love Bad News.
Taliesin: Let's move quickly.
Laura: Let's get in the door.
Sam: I think they heard us.
Orion: I go in the door.
Taliesin: Going in the door.
Laura: We all go in the door.
Matt: All of you have made your way into the doorway.
Laura: Can Trinket fit? Trinket can fit.
Matt: Trinket can fit with you, yes.
Liam: Just barely.
Ashley: Just bear-ly.
Liam: It's like Winnie the Pooh, in the--
Laura: If Grog can fit, Trinket can fit.
Taliesin: It’s the one you don’t suit.
Travis: Oh no, we can't see anything.
Matt: You guys make your way into this tiny little room--
All: Whoa!
Matt: You're all very crammed in, to get anywhere.
Laura: Into this (high voice) teeny-tiny little room.
Liam: Feels like an intermission room.
Laura: Oh. A bathroom break room?
Liam: Yes. We could all relieve ourselves in this room.
Matt: You guys all slowly push into this storage room. It's very musty. It hasn't seen use in quite a while. In fact, you can see a little bit of mold is growing on the side of one of the barrels in the corner.
Orion: Ooh, dank.
Matt: There is a doorway that is closed on the opposite side of this wall, and from what you can see, there is a stairway that curves upwards to the second floor.
Laura: Ooh!
Sam: Guys, I'm sensing a lot of purple and brown construction paper here. (all laugh)
Orion: I am as well, Scanlan.
Liam: That's your favored terrain, right?
Sam: It is. (all laugh)
Laura: Can we take an intermission break at this moment?
Matt: I think as you guys just entered the stronghold, we'll take this as an intermission break. So take a little over 10 minutes. We'll watch the rest of the videos here again, and we'll return as the party has just entered the Emberhold itself.
Laura: All right. Oh wait, quick announcement.
Zac: A couple quick announcements.
Liam: Zac matches the construction paper.
Laura: What?!
Marisha: You do! (all laugh)
Zac: You can't see me! So guys before we go on intermission, I wanted to bring up one more time 826LA which is the charity that Critical Role is supporting. Do you want to give a brief--
Marisha: Yeah. A portion of our proceeds, or whatever our donations are, go to 826LA. They are an after-school tutoring program that help children between the ages of 5 and 18, mainly with literacy and creative writing and they have this awesome program where it's a young authors thing. You can buy all their books and their stories, and you should totally check them out.
Zac: Sweet!
Matt: Fantastic.
Zac: So guys, we can spam you with that link in the chatroom if you want to support a charity for Critical Role. We also still have a giveaway at 2150 subs, which is a picture of the entire Critical Role cast they've all signed, and it's really cool. We'll show that to you guys again later, but we'll go ahead and roll those videos for you guys again.
Matt: See if we can squeeze the intro again, that would be best. All right, cool guys, we'll see you again in a little bit.
Ashley: Pike grew up in the outskirts of town, near the Bramblewood. Her ancestors were a family of deep gnomes with quite an unfavorable reputation. Thievery, destruction, and trickery left them with the curse of the last name Trickfoot. Sarenrae, the goddess of healing and redemption, had other plans for Pike's great-great-grandfather, Wilhand, who left his family at a young age after a dream. A dream that changed the course of the Trickfoot family. Wilhand devoted his life to Sarenrae and pledged from then on that him and his family would live a life of service and devotion. As a child, Pike seemed to have an affinity to heal. Whether it was animals, people, or even flowers, she felt she had a purpose in making things whole that had once been broken. She studied and learned the ways to heal through divine magic. She lived a peaceful life, quiet and simple, until one day, Wilhand was captured and almost killed by a group of goliath barbarians. One of the goliaths took a stand against the murder of the innocent gnome and he himself was beaten, bloodied, and left for dead, abandoned by his herd. Wilhand went to Pike for help. She prayed and healed this barbarian as best she could, bringing him back to life. When he awoke, she discovered his name was Grog Strongjaw. After that, they were best of friends, a rather unlikely pair. Little did she know that in a few years' time Grog would soon return the favor and bring her back from the clutches of death. (roar) (wet smack sounds) After being killed in battle, Pike felt angry. She wanted to be stronger so that it would never happen again. She spent four months at sea training with the men and women aboard a ship called the Broken Howl. Gripping her holy symbol in one hand, and her morningstar in the other, this time, Pike is ready.
Travis: Right, Listen up! If you have ale, then you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw! A goliath of towering height and size, this barbarian has an appetite for the two great loves in his life: combat, women, and ale! (chuckle) (record scratch) Wait. Easily the brains of the group, Grog is often consulted for his vast knowledge of shapes, colors, and (chuckle) shiny things! ...also ale. In his early years, armed with his two-handed great axe, Grog often enjoyed proving his might amongst the ranks of his family's wandering herd. But after coming upon an unsuspecting elderly gnome in the woods, he objected to the killing such an innocent life. A creature of impulse, Grog felt only pity for this... well this terrified little thing. And his disobedience cost him dearly. (weapon crack) Beaten bloody, and banished by the herd leader, his uncle Kevdak, Grog was abandoned and left to die. Exiled from his herd, it was then that the relative of the very gnome he fought to save saved him. It was the kindness of a gnome cleric named Pike that healed Grog, bringing him back from death's edge. And they have remained close friends ever since. (brawling sounds) Most nights, Grog can be found challenging entire taverns to wrestling matches! Ha! ...or accompanying Scanlan to the nearest house, where you pay for... lady favors. Also ale!
Marisha: A first Impression of Keyleth would leave you with little information on the half-elven druid. You might even think that her social awkwardness due to her sheltered upbringing is kinda sweet. (chuckle) Of course, it would be unwise to underestimate her based on first impressions. (thunder crack) Under that unintimidating petite frame is a vicious beast waiting to be unleashed, whose natural powers have made even the fiercest of champions pee their pants, literally! (soft chuckle) Born to the Air Tribe of the Ashari people, Keyleth was raised with a deep love of nature and the elemental magics. It is her people’s inherent duty to protect the delicate areas in Tal'Dorei where the four elemental planes begin to bleed with this realm. Since she was a little girl, she had quite a knack for air manipulation and beast shaping abilities. Well, if you consider kittens and flying squirrels to be little beasts. Which, I do. (clears throat) Anyways, it wasn't long before the headmaster of the tribe, her father, Kohren, realized her true prodigious abilities and she was inveterated to succeed him as the next headmaster. Just like that, her jovial childhood was stripped and replaced with endless spell memorization, teachings from ancient traditions, and exceedingly high expectations. Every druid leader-to-be must embark on journey to seek out the sister tribes in order to introduce and establish respect amongst the fellow headmasters. They call this the Aramente, or Noble Odyssey. When her father felt she was ready, he set her on the path to truly discovering herself. Not knowing when, or if she will ever return. As she hiked down the mountain towards Stillben, she meditated on the task ahead. Part of the Aramente is proving yourself a strong warrior, a valiant protector, and a wise and compassionate leader. With this knowledge, one thought plays in repeat in her mind: Is she even worthy?
Taliesin: Percy was the third child of 7 children, born to a noble family who lived far to the north in the ancient castle of Whitestone. With so many siblings to share the burdens of lordship, Percy turned his attention to the sciences, engineering, and naturalism. One day, a mysterious couple named Lord and Lady Briarwood came to court. During a feast held in their honor, the Briarwoods violently took control of the castle, killing or imprisoning everyone who would stand in their way. Percy awoke chained in the dungeon, only to be freed by his younger sister. Together they fled, chased by the Briarwoods’ men. As they ran, Percy’s sister took several arrows to the chest and fell. Percy kept running, eventually jumping into a freezing river and floating unconscious to freedom. He did not remember waking up on a fishing boat. He barely remembered the next two years, as he slowly made his way as far south as possible. Then one night, Percy had a dream. A roaring cloud of smoke offered him vengeance against those who destroyed his family. When he awoke, Percy began to design his first gun. (click sound) (gunshot)
Sam: Oh, you haven’t heard of Scanlan Shorthalt? Well, gird your loins, ladies, because he has his eye on you. A talented musician, master of disguise, and dashingly handsome in his own mind, Scanlan sings songs almost as much as he sings his own praises. Born a poor gnome, Scanlan used his endless charm and soaring tenor voice to croon for coin and support his single mother. One day he was discovered by a half-orc promoter and joined Dr. Dranzel’s Spectacular Traveling Troupe where he learned the ways of the world, and honed his skills as a bard extraordinaire. A loner much of his life, Scanlan has never quite come to terms with the violent death of his mother at the hands of a goblin invasion. While his years on the road provided many, shall we say, educational experiences with the opposite sex, deep down Scanlan yearns for the one thing he’s never known: the true love of a fellow gnome. Still, Scanlan considers himself a lover first, performer second, and fighter distant third. On the battlefield, he’ll support his allies, but rarely draws blood unless it’s to protect fellow gnome, Pike. Count on Scanlan for a hearty laugh, a rollicking song, and a twinkle in his eye that melts hearts and makes the females swoon.
Orion: Greetings and salutations. I am Tiberius Stormwind. I hail from a town called Ty'rex, located in the heart of Draconia, born from a politically respected family. At the age of 15, I succeeded in passing the Sorcerer’s Rite, showing prodigy-like control of my magic. The judges and the Draconian high council were amazed at how powerful my spells were for how long I had been training. At 20 years old, I was the youngest appointed member of the magic guild in Draconian history. For the next few years, I almost went mad from the malaise of being a guild member, as it’s rather boring. However, one day I happened upon a chamber, unused for quite some time. In the room were stacks of books and maps of the surrounding cities and areas around the known world. For months I would frequent the chamber, and learned of artifacts from legend. After a long period of research, I made a list of artifacts that caught my eye. I brought these findings to the high council and was told that all of the information in the chamber I had stumbled upon was either believed to be fiction, or unsolvable mysteries, and hence were lost forever. I found those answers to be unacceptable. A year later I devised a ruse and managed to convince the city council to lend support in me leaving Draconia on a mission of peace and diplomacy for the surrounding kingdoms. Going from town to town and making friends and allies, in and for the name of Draconia. Being a red dragonborn, I had quite the task on my hands in that respect, but it was exactly what I needed so I could explore the world and find these artifacts, as I felt the truth was out there. Some may describe me as buffoonish, but I say poppycock to all that. I am much sharper than most give me credit for. I just don’t pay attention to things sometimes. I’ve also been known to be rather cunning, loyal, happy-go-lucky, and well, dangerous. I can’t help but show my true scales every now and then. But overall, I think I’m quite friendly for a Dragonborn.
Liam: Never entirely welcome in the company of elves or men, Vax'ildan learned at a young age to skip past formality, preferring instead to invite himself in your door. Along with twin sister Vex'ahlia, Vax was born by a chance encounter between elven royalty and human peasantry. Raised by their mother in their early years, the twins were eventually sent off to their father in the elven capital of Singorn. But their cool reception among the elves there never warmed, and their time in the capital didn’t last. The siblings stole away one autumn night and set out on the open road. After a few years of wandering, they eventually decided to return to their mother, and journeyed back to the lands of their youth. But instead of finding their childhood home, they returned to a pile of rubble. Their mother was gone, their home burned to ash. Pressing the townspeople for answers, they learned of the day the dragon came. (dragon roaring) With their ties all severed, Vax'ildan and his sister set out to find their fortune together in Tal'Dorei. An outsider since birth, Vax quickly learned to solve life’s challenges in his own particular way, often by sidestepping them entirely. And when his knack for circumventing adversity isn’t enough, (ringing weapons SFX) the way of blades the elves schooled him in more than makes up the difference.
Laura: Like so many half-elves, Vex'ahlia has spent most of her life suffering the cool reception of a people who don’t fully accept her. Born of a human mother and an elven father who only later in life took an interest in their existence, Vex'ahlia and her twin brother Vax'ildan quickly realized the only people they could truly rely on in this world were each other. It was at the age of 10 when the two were taken from their mother and brought to live in Singorn, the isolated elven city for which their father was an ambassador. He quietly took them in, but always kept an icy distance, and after too many years of disdainful looks, the pair decided to leave his indifference behind, and set out on their own. Vax took to the cities, stealing small trinkets and learning the ways of the thief, while Vex kept to the woods. She preferred the isolation. Always the keen observer, she learned to hunt and to track, to spy and to shoot. And through a series of fateful events, earned herself a companion in the form of a bear - her own stolen Trinket - to fight alongside her and protect her fiercely. Also he is adorable, and gives expert massages. (drumming battle music) (drumming battle music continues)
Orion: Still alive!
Matt: (laughs) Welcome back, guys. Welcome back to Critical Role. And we have Orion -- .
Liam: Holy hell.
Taliesin: Ow.
Marisha: Are you okay?
Taliesin: I'm fine.
Matt: 2d6 damage to Tiberius. So, guys, for those who are keeping up: two things, real fast. We want to thank Jacqueline Lassiter for the awesome food she sent for us.
All: (words of acclamation and thanks)
Matt: Seriously, thank you. A delightful, necessary treat after this game time. So, thank you, thank you, thank you. Also for the 2,150-subscriber mark, we're giving away this autographed photo of the cast.
Laura: Autographed photo.
Matt: We'll send out to you.
Liam: It's so handsome.
Marisha: Who is it going to?
Matt: Some lucky person in the chatroom once we hit 2,150.
Marisha: Oh. We don't know yet.
Matt: Whenever that happens, that will be going to you. So, yes, returning to the game--
Sam: Also, we've got these t-shirts. You should want them. (Laura and Marisha laugh)
Matt: We're going to now look into--
Marisha: Yes, let us know if you want them.
Laura: We're going to look into that.
Matt: We're going to look into possibly finding a way to get these shirts to you guys in the next couple weeks.
Marisha: Only if you want them, though. This is going to be a lot of work. We don't want to do it unless you really want them.
Orion: We hate doing work.
Travis: We're voice actors.
Taliesin: We're not here to work.
Sam: Where are we? We were just going in a door.
Matt: Indeed. You guys--
Liam: Come on. Yes, they want them.
Matt: Cool. I guess that feedback is good. The party had just managed to not-quite-so-stealthily pry their way into the hidden entrance to the outside of the duergar stronghold of Emberhold. They found themselves crammed into a very tiny, essentially a storage room, with a stairway leading up and a closed doorway leading further into the stronghold. So, what is your preference?
Laura: I think we should go through the door, instead of going up.
Liam: I agree.
Laura: Because any prisoners are probably going to be kept at a low level.
Taliesin: Can we quietly open the door?
Matt: Yeah, once inside.
Laura: Can we very stealthily try to open - oh, check for traps!
Liam: Yes, I'm going to sniff the door a bit.
Matt: All right.
Laura: (sniffing SFX)
Liam: Yeah, that's a 20.
Matt: 20? Best you can tell, the door itself is locked, but is not trapped.
Liam: Okay, well - (clinking SFX) Okay, thieves’ tools out. Oh, that's an easy 30.
Sam: 30?!
Matt: A 30!
Liam: 30.
Sam: Jesus.
Marisha: God damn.
Matt: Which is good because it's a very, very intricate lock. There is a specific key, a single key that is designed for this lock, that you gather is probably held by King Murghol himself.
Ashley: King Myrtle?
Laura: Mairgil. Mare - Mairgil?
Matt: Mur-ghol.
Marisha: Marigold.
All - travis - orion - liam - ahsley - matt: Murghol.
Sam: And his queen, Durarara.
Matt: (laughs)
Marisha: Is that how you pronounce her name? Doo-gara-gar?
Liam: It's, uh, Ermahgerd?
All: Ermahgerd.
Laura: Ulara is her name.
Orion: Kuma.
Laura: Queen Ulara.
Sam: Ulara. Uhura.
Matt: Yes. Uhura.
Marisha: Uhura.
Taliesin: Kana.
Matt: Kumar.
Marisha: I don't know! What is her name? Seriously, what is her name, now?
Laura: It's Ulara! Ulara.
Sam: Ulara.
Marisha: What is -- ?
All - travis - orion - liam - ahsley - matt: Ulara.
Marisha: Ulara. (giggles)
Matt: Shh.
Taliesin: Maybe not.
Marisha: Uladra. Right?
Liam: I'm picking a lock.
Laura: Shh. He's picking a lock. Be very quiet.
Liam: (clicking SFX)
Matt: However, you do manage to find a series of intricate, strangely-constructed dwarven tumblers on the inside that each have a very strange, rigid structure -- (laughs)
Liam: ‘Ey!
Matt: Please do that every time you pick a lock. You manage to get the right sequence, and with a slight - (clicking SFX) - clicking sound, (squeak SFX) the door opens slightly on the inside.
Laura: Yes.
Liam: It was pretty easy.
Matt: Leading into what you can see is a hallway, that continues further down to about there.
Liam: Where is the door? Where is the door that I just picked?
Matt: The door that you picked, if you wanted to walk through is right there.
Liam: It's naturally there.
Laura: So that other stuff is upstairs.
Matt: All of this is on the floor that you're on.
Laura: Oh! Okay.
Liam: I'm going to take six or seven quiet steps forward, stealthily. 19 stealth.
Matt: All right.
Orion: As he does this, I'm going to pull out my Ioun stone from my pouch, and let it-- (whirling SFX)
Matt: All right, cool.
Travis: We're all trapped in that room together, right?
Matt: You are. Correct.
Travis: I fart. (all laugh)
Orion: Oh! Grog! Prestidigitation, and I (whoosh SFX) make a quick wind-gust--
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Just circulate it around the room, will you?
Orion: I blew it away! I could blow it right up your nose, Vax! (fluttering SFX)
Travis: I'm closer to you now than I've ever been before.
Laura: I throw up in my mouth just a little bit.
Taliesin: Go around the corner and tell us what you see.
Matt: Just a little bit.
Orion: Oh. I'm sorry.
Matt: (laughs)
Taliesin: Take a very quiet peek around the corner.
Liam: All right, I'm having a peeky-poo.
Taliesin: Quietly.
Matt: As you peek through, you can get a general idea of what looks to be some sort of an empty storage room. A lot of materials have been moved out of it. It looks like the remnants of stone, things that were used for construction that once were in this room that have been pulled out to build things. Possibly moved as part of the war camp to start building some of the siege weapons that you saw above.
Liam: Do I hear anything?
Matt: Not currently. Roll a perception check.
Liam: Yes.
Laura: Oh, that's good.
Liam: That's pretty good. 27.
Matt: Listening, you hear footsteps above. You hear very, very faintly through the stonework about 20 feet above you - (thumping SFX) - some footsteps moving above. Apparently there is some level of alert on the second floor.
Laura: Oh, shit. We should move fast.
Marisha: Hmm. I wonder why.
Liam: Go figure.
Laura: We should get out of the room.
Orion: Yes, Percy, I wonder why.
Laura: We start getting out of the room.
Taliesin: It’s a wonder, looking outside.
Liam: I go back to the door and just be like--
Laura: (whispering) Come on. Hurry!
Liam: So, I want to go further - no doorway, as of yet. Correct?
Matt: No doorway here.
Liam: If I go this way--
Laura: They're going to start coming down these fricking stairs in this room.
Matt: This way? It ends. The hallway comes to an end, with a wall.
Liam: Well then, I'm going to peek into this door here. This open door.
Matt: Here?
Liam: No. What's right by the figure?
Matt: This is the one you just looked into that had this empty room that--
Liam: Thank you, thank you. So, down the one hall.
Matt: Down the one hall. Look past here there is a stairway that descends downward.
Liam: Down.
Matt: Looking down - pardon me. Looking down this hallway, you see what resembles - there's a door to your left that's closed currently, and it splits off into two directions, right and left.
Liam: Right, I don't even tell anyone. I just start to slink down the steps.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Did he go down?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: Oh, geez Louise.
Matt: Okay. Put Clarota there. You continue down the stairway, and as you slowly move around, you can see down towards the bottom a very faint bit of reddish glow-stone light and a hallway that splits right and left. Laura: (whispering) We should go downstairs.
Liam: Right and left? I go to the right.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Why don’t we just go left?
Laura: We're getting bored.
Matt: As you look past the right - you guys are all waiting in the room?
Liam: You should just storm in.
Laura: I get out.
Liam: Start banging your weapons together.
Laura: No! I come out, because you're taking too long.
Marisha: (laughs)
Matt: Anyone else?
Orion: I saunter about. (all laugh)
Ashley: I'll head on out there.
Sam: I go where Pike goes.
Marisha: We're just losing all attention span? Is that what's going on? We're just wandering off.
Laura: No no no. I said we stay in the area, but I wanted to check on my brother because I feel like he's taking awhile.
Matt: All right.
Laura: And he was just gonna check the doors.
Matt: As you move and glance over, you can see there are two duergar stationed on each side of the split hallways. One is a closed doorway to your right, and to the left there's an open doorway that leads into a room.
Liam: And that's when I went to the right?
Matt: Well, as soon as you went into where the division was, you turned to the right and there were duergar there, and a duergar on the left.
Liam: I'm going to turn my chin over to the left, and see what I see down there.
Matt: There's a second duergar that is currently sitting in armor, weapon to its side. Just occasionally glancing in. You can hear, every now and then, sounds like a moan or a slight whispering gurgle, and the duergar will lean in - "Hey, shut up in there! 'Kay?!"
Liam: Yeah, I'm going to go kill this guy.
Laura: You don't want to tell us what you found?
Orion: As I notice him going up, I'm going to - (click) Vax, what are you doing?
Liam: (softly) Uh, I'm killing someone. Hold, please. (all laughing)
Sam: (humming a Muzak version of "The Girl from Ipanema")
Orion: Uh, guys, Vax is going to go kill something.
Marisha: It's okay. Let him do it by himself. It's what he does best.
Liam: I'm going to sneak up on this duergar.
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Orion: I worry.
Marisha: I know. It's okay.
Liam: 19?
Matt: 19? Let me go ahead and--
Laura: Oh, no! Look at this.
Matt: This'll be an interesting--
Liam: Like a magician, you just whip it out, Matt.
Matt: That's what I'm doing. Trying, at least. There we go.
Travis: Do you want an extra hand?
Taliesin: If Mr. Wizard can do it, you can do it.
Sam: Watch out! LAURA It's that book.
Matt: Oh, it is the book, isn't it? Stupid book. As you've made your way here, Vex [sic] you look to the right. There's the duergar here to the left that's shouting into this room here.
Sam: Do something!
Matt: You missed entirely what I was telling you.
Travis: Will you fucking do something, please?
Liam: He's right there on the side. There's one over there, there's one over there. There's two. Oh, shit. Well, we all come slamming down in here.
Sam: Yeah!
Travis: No, you're down there.
Liam: So I sneak back up and I put a hand on my sister's shoulder, and I give her a little come along motion. And tell everyone else--
Sam: Don't you need some Grog?
Liam: --I mouth "Kima" at everybody, and then pull my sister down.
Matt: As you're doing this, you hear footsteps across the way echoing through the hallway, what sounds like a number of other foot patters heading through the halls--
Laura: (gasps) We should just go down.
Matt: --towards the front of the stronghold.
Liam: I'm just pulling Vex down.
Orion: The front? Oh, the front of the front. Not where we're at, right?
Matt: Vex and Vax both disappear off to the side, down a hallway.
Marisha: Before they leave I just tap their shoulders and meditate and grant them Guidance.
Matt: Okay, you can give one of them Guidance because it's concentration.
Marisha: Uh, Vex.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: That's me.
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: Fuck.
Laura: Did you mean to give it to him?
Marisha: Yes. (everyone laughs)
Orion: Brava.
Matt: All right, who gets guidance?
Sam: The man one.
Matt: Vax.
Marisha: Vax.
Liam: So I pull my poison blade out and I pull the keen dagger out. Okay, and I take the keen dagger - so the one on the left is by the door and the one that muttered through the doorway, right?
Matt: The one right here.
Liam: So I give a little fwip, toss in my hand and throw it right at his neck.
Laura: At the same time I reach out and I go (arrow SFX).
Liam: And the other one, the poison one, toward the other.
Matt: Okay and you are?
Laura: And I was going to shoot at the other one.
Matt: Go ahead and roll for this guy here.
Liam: That guy. That is a 17 for me.
Matt: 17 hits.
Laura: 27.
Matt: 27, all right.
Liam: And then on the other guy, or should I just go ahead and attack?
Matt: Go ahead and attack both.
Liam: 17. So that’s--
Laura: And 25 on the same.
Matt: Both arrows on the guy on the right?
Laura: Let’s do both, one on each.
Matt: Each? (shooting SFX) You both - (impact SFX) - ?
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: Okay, cool. Damage on the one on the left? Which is sneak attack because he didn’t know you were there.
Liam: So, 46 with the keen dagger on the guard at the door.
Taliesin: Damn.
Laura: So I was really useful!
Matt: The guy on the left, as he’s leaning back, he’s getting angry with whoever is in that room. As he turns back to take his post again, (swoosh SFX) (gurgling) he just gurgles, slumps to the ground. As he’s slumping, an arrow goes (impact sound) into his stomach. (everyone laughs)
Liam: It’s like a punctuation.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah.
Matt: Roll damage for the second attack.
Liam: The poison dagger goes (thunk sound). Well, I didn’t roll to hit him.
Matt: And you are using the poison effect on him?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: 15 on the other guy for me.
Liam: That is a 19.
Matt: Okay, that hits. Now roll damage.
Liam: This doesn’t get sneak attack?
Matt: No.
Liam: Because I already used that. I made some noise hitting the first guy. 7 plus the poison.
Matt: What is the poison damage?
Liam: The poison is DC 15.
Matt: He does not make the save, even though he’s a duergar.
Laura: I go running back up since I’ve already shot my arrows.
Matt: Let me check one thing real fast.
Laura: And I figured you’ve got this.
Matt: Check one thing.
Ashley: He could just clear this whole place by himself.
Liam: 9 points of poison on him.
Matt: Okay. So, an arrow (impact SFX) into his chest just as the poison blade makes contact. You can see him (gurgling SFX) double over for a second, but the hardy duergar once-dwarven form seems to shrug off a lot of the poison’s impact.
Laura: Oh, shit!
Matt: He is still dribbling a very heavy amount of deep crimson from his mouth, but he still (gasps) looks over and sees you both in the hallway and goes to reach for his warhammer and turn around towards the door behind him.
Laura: Can I throw an arrow at him?
Liam: Do we roll for initiative at this point?
Matt: You guys roll for initiative to see who goes first.
Sam: I turn to Pike and say, "What the fuck is going on? Where are they?"
Orion: I don’t know, but this book, Scanlan, is incredible.
Sam: I’m sure it is.
Orion: It’s all about this, er, an ice thing--
Sam: I read non-fiction.
Orion: --and these other things.
Ashley: Let’s head down there. I’m going to head down there.
Liam: Careful, clanky.
Ashley: Oh.
Matt: So the rest of you are heading down there?
Travis: I follow Pike down there.
Sam: I’m going, too.
Laura: There are so many prisoners down this way.
Matt: Everyone else roll stealth checks.
Laura: Everybody fucking come down.
Marisha: Are we going down?
Matt: Stealth checks everyone. You guys both beat him on initiative.
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Roll attacks, both of you, just roll the dice.
Sam: Roll the dice.
Orion: Roll the dice.
Ashley: 19.
Liam: 28.
Ashley: Getting a handle on my armor.
Matt: Okay. You don’t need to roll damage. He has like, 2 hit points left. You guys pepper him with additional arrows and daggers. The poor guys is like: "Uh, I’m gonna--" (impact SFX, gurgle) He just goes down with this horrible sense of overkill, his body just slumps up against the door, leaning against the wooden door he was guarding.
Laura: I say on my earring "I think we found the prison cells. Get down here."
Sam: We’re coming.
Orion: I’m assuming they’re dead.
Matt: Both duergar.
Liam: I start to loot the bodies.
Matt: Stealth checks?
Orion: 16.
Marisha: 17.
Taliesin: 12.
Sam: 12.
Travis: 20.
Ashley: 19.
Matt: All right, go team!
Marisha: Woo! We’re stealthy bastards.
Matt: That was with disadvantage?
Ashley: I have to roll again?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: Why?
Matt: Because you’re in heavy plate armor.
Marisha: No!
Laura: No!
All: (words of encouragement)
Ashley: (laughs)
Laura: That’s not bad, that’s still not bad.
Ashley: I rolled an 8.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Plus what?
Ashley: Plus nothing. (all laugh)
Matt: Okay.
Liam: (clanking SFX)
Matt: You guys, all rush down the stairs (stomping SFX) the clanking of the plate armor as you're going down. The rest of you wince as you notice it, but you make it down anyway.
Ashley: (laughing) Oh my God.
Travis: I should have picked you up.
Marisha: I'm actually going to go ahead and throw Guidance on Pike now.
Sam: Little late, little late.
Taliesin: What does Guidance do?
Marisha: It gives you a plus on your ability checks. And it gives you a 1d4 plus to your-- (several talking at once)
Sam: Do they already knew [sic] we were here? Now they really know.
Matt: So, the rest of you have made it down.
Liam: Surprise!
Matt: In this hallway, there are 2 dead duergar on the ground. One with a closed door and one with an open door.
Laura: Well, let's go look in the open door. Stealthily.
Matt: You glance over into the open door, you can see what appears to be a series of dungeon cells held underneath the stronghold.
Liam: Lady Kima?
Matt: Within these, you can see there are a number of dwarven captives that are in very, very, very poor health--
Taliesin: I don't care about them.
Laura: We need to get them awake.
Matt: --that are currently lying down, unfed, gaunt.
Sam: Are any of them Lady Kima? Because if they're not, they're about to die.
Laura: No, they're regular dwarves, they're good people.
Orion: I go inspect them and see what's going on.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I'll go in with Tiberius.
Matt: Okay, you guys enter. As you look around, there are a series of largely decomposed bodies in a few of these cells. They are people who've just been left to die.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: One, there are these kind of strange deep underground, rat-like creatures that are feeding on one of them. One of the dwarves is just wheezing in pain (moaning). You can see his stomach is a little distended. The other one is either unconscious, asleep, or dead. You can't tell.
Ashley: Can I do a Mass Cure on them?
Matt: You can if you'd like.
Ashley: Okay. I'll do that.
Liam: Yes, I was about to say. I'm going to go start inspecting the other door.
Taliesin: I'll go with him.
Laura: Why don't you unlock the prison cells here?
Marisha: Yeah, can you unlock the prison cells?
Liam: Oh, sorry.
Laura: Can we go in? Can we talk to them?
Matt: If you guys want to. So you go through. It's fairly simple over time for you to unlock the cells if you'd like, the 2 that are in there. There's a difference between healing magic and nutrition. You make them feel physically better for the moment, but their physical form itself is failing.
Travis: Just a thought, shouldn't we clear this mess before we let prisoners out?
Matt: They need food, they need air, they need to be out of here soon. They're both on the edge of death.
Sam: Put them in the bag of holding, Grog.
Marisha: I pull out a water.
Orion: I go to the room, I take out my bottle of water..
Marisha: I'll do the opposite one.
Matt: You guys hear heavy footsteps coming from the stairway you guys just descended from.
Travis: I go stand right next to the stairway.
Marisha: In the cells, in the cells.
Taliesin: In the cells, in the cells.
Liam: I pull my sister and we flank. I push her into flanking position to the door.
Laura: Oh God, I nock an arrow, notch an arrow?
Orion: Where are they coming from?
Liam: The stairs, from where we entered?
Matt: What are you guys doing?
Marisha: I jump in the cells and I pull a dead, decomposing corpse over the top of me.
Laura: Eww, Keyleth. All kinds of nastiness.
Taliesin: I find a corner of a cell and slowly pull out my gun.
Marisha: I’m going savage! (all laugh)
Taliesin: I should make sure all the doors are shut, not locked.
Matt: All right, all the doors are shut. Pike, anything you doing?
Ashley: I'm just, you know, preparing.
Matt: (laughs) All right.
Marisha: Just kicking it, just chilling.
Laura: Do we need to move out of the way of the stairs?
Liam: Vax is scooching Scanlan out of the way to take that position right there.
Taliesin: The bear is at the back cell.
Laura: Scanlan, where are you?
Sam: There's voices coming from the stairs?
Liam: Yeah, someone's coming.
Sam: But there's a bear in the stairs.
Laura: Well, Trinket's coming down.
Marisha: I call, "Trinket, Trinket, Trinket (kissing SFX) Trinket!"
Matt: Trinket barely hears you from way over at the side.
Marisha: (kissing SFX) Come on.
Matt: He's coming into this room. Clarota just steps back, along the side of the stairs and out of view. A few moments pass as the footsteps slowly trail off.
Orion: I leave and turn around where Vex and Vax are.
Marisha: I know.
Laura: What's in the other door?
Matt: The other door is currently locked from what you can tell.
Liam: One moment. It is now not locked, I think.
Matt: (chuckles)
Liam: 25?
Matt: (clicking SFX) You push the door open and you see immediately, the fast moving heft of some large blade towards your head.
Sam: Oh, snap!
Laura: Oh, it's Kima.
Liam: No, it's a trap ready to hit me.
Matt: That is 24 versus armor class.
Liam: That hits.
Matt: That hits, all right.
Laura: Oh, you didn't check for traps.
Liam: Didn't check for traps.
Travis: I thought you were good at this shit.
Liam: I'm going to use uncanny dodge.
Matt: What would have been 20 points of slashing damage is reduced to 10. So you take 10 damage as the axe (impact SFX) hits you and imbeds itself in the wooden door, pulls back. Now you see as a duergar wearing this nasty-looking black leather tunic with a hood pulled back, with a giant, gnarled, hefted greataxe, words escaped me on that one, has a bunch of scars on its face. As it's grinning, it pulls the axe out of the doorway.
Liam: Right, I spit on the ground, and yank my belt off and throw it at his head.
Laura: And I yell ‘hold.’
Matt: Okay. As you throw the belt--
Sam: Hold?
Laura: Yeah, tell him to stop attacking.
Liam: Yeah, serpent.
Matt: --he ducks out of the way, pulls back out of the way, as the snake forms itself. It goes ahead and makes its attack. Go ahead and roll for snake attack against him.
Sam: Snake attack!
Liam: Okay, 12 plus, I don't know what, 12. Is my attack, his attack, snake attack?
Matt: Did you roll a 12 on that?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, that will not hit unfortunately.
Liam: All right.
Matt: As he slaps it off himself and it (swish SFX) cascades off to the side of the room.
Ashley: Is he in a cell?
Travis: Is a base attack a straight line from him to Vax to--
Sam: He's protecting the cells.
Ashley: He's protecting the cells.
Matt: At which point he kicks the door closed again.
Travis: Can I, in my rage, bullrush through this?
Sam: Yes, yes.
Matt: Now roll initiative, guys.
Orion: As he's going I immediately cast Stone Skin on myself. (cracking SFX)
Matt: Okay.
Liam: What I like is that there are 8 of us and 1 of him.
Laura: Possibly, if no one else is behind that door.
Taliesin: So far.
Laura: He's in a room by himself.
Liam: I can see the square, it's very small.
Matt: You've looked inside, seeing a brief bit of the room. 25 to 20?
Taliesin: 26.
Liam: 20.
Matt: 26, all right Percy.
Liam: (shooting SFX)
Matt: All right. 20 to 15?
Marisha: 18.
Laura: 15.
Orion: 19.
Matt: 15 to 10?
Travis: 14.
Matt: 14. 10 to 5?
Ashley: 7.
Matt: 5 to 1?
Sam: (nervously) 4.
Matt: All right. Percy, you're up first.
Taliesin: Where am I?
Matt: You are way back in this cell, and you hear a slam of broken wood and another slam of a door closing.
Taliesin: I'm going to run to the hall.
Matt: Make an acrobatics check to try and move through this cluster of people here.
Taliesin: I can do that. 24.
Matt: 24. You leap over, vaulting off of Trinket, land and move into this hallway. And that's the extent of your movement.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to try and take a shot and blow the lock.
Matt: Okay, with the Bad News or with your--?
Taliesin: Oh no, Bad News is away. This is just with the handheld, shooting at the lock at the door.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Taliesin: Jesus H, 30.
Matt: Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: 9 points of damage.
Matt: 9 points of damage. As the door slams back and you prepare yourself to try and kick it open, you hear the familiar (zoom SFX) of one of Percy's pepperbox bullets as the actual handle of the door (impact SFX) gets blown off and there's a small hole in the wooden door now where its handle once was. The door swings open a little bit loosely due to the impact. That ends your turn.
Taliesin: That ends my turn.
Matt: Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay. All I'm gonna do is grab the hole of the door and yank it open and yell, "Your turn, Grog!"
Marisha: Oh! That's fun!
Matt: As you pull it open, the dwarf backs up over what you can see now, this room is completely covered in a series of really nasty, hooked instruments. Hot irons, you can see large pincers--
Travis: (laughs excitedly)
Matt: --you can see various blades.
Ashley: Oh, it's like a torture chamber?
Matt: It's a torture chamber. (all groan)
Travis: It's Christmas!
Taliesin: Grog is running into Toys R Us. This is going to be great.
Matt: You see gently as he backs away there is someone on this rack-like table. The dwarf backs up with his axe getting ready.
Liam: I use my bonus action to say, "You are so fucked, dwarf." (all laugh)
Matt: All right, that brings us to Tiberius.
Orion: I like where this is going, Vax. Wait, I go over there first and then I say that. (all laugh)
Matt: Acrobatics check.
Orion: Acrobatics, why?
Sam: You gotta jump over people.
Matt: You've got to move through people. The area is congested. Small spaces, man. Downside of a big party.
Orion: Okay. 22.
Matt: 22. You manage to move through, push the bear out of the way. Move, Trinket. Get out the way!
Orion: (muttering) Bear!
Matt: You manage to make your way, squeeze past Percy.
Orion: The bear surprisingly smells really nice.
Matt: All right, Tiberius, what do you want to do now?
Orion: I'm going to follow suit as I see what Vax is doing. I'm going to cast Hold Person on the dwarf.
Matt: You don't have visual on the dwarf currently, the dwarf is back--
Orion: What? That's absurd!
Matt: As you run through the hallway - which you don't know there's a dwarf there - you rush out to the hallway after hearing all this commotion. You look in and there's an open door into a room that's currently vacant. You don't have enough movement to get close enough, unfortunately.
Orion: Oh well, poop. I... I encourage violence. (all laugh)
Matt: A wondrous use of an action.
Orion: Do it! Do it, Grog! Destroy them! With no regard to any of his existence.
Matt: Keyleth.
Travis: (laughing) I encourage violence!
Liam: That's the best line of the night! (laughs)
Matt: You are currently in a cell with a dead body draped over you. (all laughing)
Marisha: It's cozy down here. Okay, so with the dead body, I hear what's going on - we're roleplaying it up!
Orion: Get the body off of you.
Marisha: I morph into Minxy form.
Travis: Minxy!
Marisha: And as I morph into Minxy form, I take the dead body that's on top of me and just pick it up with my mouth.
Matt: In your mouth, the body stirs. It wasn't quite dead.
Marisha: Oh, why?!
Laura: (Gasps) Oh, Keyleth!
Marisha: It was supposed to be - I wanted the dead one.
Travis: Minxy says I'm sorry!
Marisha: Can I drop that one and find a dead one?
Matt: Well, you wanted a dead one. It is now.
All: Oh!
Marisha: That's fine, that's fine.
Liam: Oh, murdering children again.
Taliesin: Spend the entire game being the worst person in the world.
Marisha: I know! I try so hard, you guys!
Travis: Was it a child duergar?
Marisha: I try so hard, I'm still the fucking worst!
Matt: So, you now have a dead, gaunt dwarf, hanging from Minxy's mouth. (all laugh)
Matt: What do you want to do?
Sam: Keep chewing.
Marisha: Um, it was...
Travis: Oh, go ahead, do something else.
Taliesin: At least it's not gamey, it’s fresh.
Marisha: Keyleth tries. Keyleth tries so hard.
Orion: You're not trying hard enough, damn it!
Marisha: Fuck you man, all right? I'm having a tough day.
Travis: You hear a little dwarf in the corner go "Mommy?"
Marisha: Vex brought up the fact that I killed a kid. I’m having all these memories coming back, I'm on the brink.
Matt: Yeah, there's some PTSD coming through.
Marisha: So I've got this now-dead corpse in my mouth and I come out around the corner.
Matt: Make an Acrobatics check. Because you’re still moving through this clustered hallway with a dead dwarf in your mouth.
Liam: Holy cow!
Marisha: I'm a tiger so--
Liam: That was Greyspine's cousin.
Marisha: Can I have an advantage? Oh, I rolled a 15. Plus being a tiger?
Matt: You're fine. You manage to push through, you're leaping through.
Marisha: I'm pouncy. And I come out into the hallway.
Matt: You actually shift Tiberius out of the way. This is a very small space, you're a very big cat. You're really pushing for space here.
Marisha: Move!
Matt: It's very, very tight quarters for you, you're like - (struggling SFX)
Orion: Keyleth, as a cat, you smell less good as Trinket does.
Marisha: It's not me, it's the dead body.
Orion: Oh. That's disgusting.
Marisha: And I look at the dwarf.
Matt: You can't see him from your vantage point, he's actually back out of sight.
Orion: I can't see him, you can't see him.
Marisha: No? Can I shift to see him at all?
Matt: You don't know there's a dwarf there. You just know there's some sort of commotion going on. You move around the corner and you see just an empty room.
Liam: Everybody give up your turn to Grog.
Laura: I know, let him go in the room.
Orion: Just let Grog deal with this butthole.
Marisha: I look at Grog and I foam at the mouth a little bit with the corpse and I--
Sam: Encourage violence.
Marisha: --I encourage violence. (all laugh)
Matt: All right. Vex?
Marisha: Just gnawing on the dead dwarf.
Laura: Oh, well, let's make this nice and easy. I smack Grog on the ass and say, "Go get him".
Travis: (eager snarling)
Matt: All right, Grog, it's your turn.
Travis: (eager snarling continues)
Marisha: Does he get advantage because we're all encouraging violence?
Orion: Yeah, or inspiration?
Matt: Oh no, you get inspiration dice for this whole set up. 1d8 inspiration dice.
Sam: You don't kill him in one shot, it's very very disappointing.
Matt: All right, you run in.
Travis: You said the room was full of shiny pointy things on the wall, right?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: I would like to bull rush the dwarf up and against the wall, try and spear him with all the sharp shit on the wall.
Matt: Okay!
All: (cheering)
Matt: Oh, that's nasty. Okay then, so for the-- (laughs)
Liam: Instant karma's going to get you, man.
Matt: All right, so go ahead and make an athletics check.
Liam: You hear that, Keyleth?
Marisha: (growling)
Travis: 24.
Matt: Yeah, against his 7. You rush in and with your first attack, you grab him, lift him, and you can see there's a series of giant meat hooks hanging from the back of the wall, and you just lift him up and (impaling SFX) shove him down onto the hook which protrudes from the front of his chest. (gurgling SFX)
Travis: No, perfect. Tell me I get another attack.
Matt: You do.
Travis: Excellent!
Matt: That's 12 points of damage and he's currently restrained by the hook through his chest.
Laura: Impaled? Oh!
Travis: Perfect! With my second attack as he's screaming out I reach inside, grab his lower jaw and pull him straight down.
Matt: Okay, make an attack roll.
Laura: Oh no! That's so gross.
Ashley: Oh, I love this so much.
Liam: Vax is using his free hand to cover his eyes.
Sam: Keyleth starts eating him.
Travis: (laughing) 24.
Matt: (laughs) Go ahead and roll damage on this.
Laura: Oh, sick.
Travis: With a 12?
Matt: For flavor, roll a 12. Why not? You're pulling his jaw.
Travis: Excellent! (laughing)
Ashley: He rolled really high.
Travis: 15.
Matt: After you throw him onto the hook, his axe clatters to the ground and he reaches up with his hands to grab you and it looks like he's pulling back to try and bring you in for a headbutt. This angry look of burning rage in his white eyes, this fucked-up duergar with all these scars on his face, as he reaches up towards you, you take your giant hand and jam it into his maw. With this horrible (choking SFX) sound, as you put all your muscle into it, glaring him in the face with a terrible grin you (breaking SFX) and yank the jaw off from the bottom of his head.
All: (cheering)
Matt: A spatter of blood across the front of his mouth and his tongue dangling, he gives out this horrible (gagging scream) this gurgling scream as all the blood begins to pour up into his throat. With that, clutching the jaw with one hand, you begin to pummel him in the face over and over, with his jaw, as he's watching, his head slowly cave in.
Travis: (laughing) Yes!
Sam: I think he's going to make it.
Matt: Until eventually, he's no longer moving and you throw the jaw to the ground, just coated with blood.
Liam: You're going to pull through, buddy.
Laura: Pike! I think Grog, um, I think he did his job.
Ashley: I scream out, "Good job Grog! That's your best one yet!"
Marisha: And they say video games are violent. (all laugh)
Laura: (gagging sounds)
Matt: As you've entered the room now--
Ashley: Wait, is he dead? (all laugh)
Matt: Oh, he's very dead.
Travis: We made cheese of him.
Matt: He lies there limply on the wall, twitching every few seconds. Grog, still in a rage, you look over at the other individual. You can see now strapped to this wooden frame is a smallish humanoid, female, currently chained and being pulled on a rack. You can see bunch of scars and wounds, blood pouring from each one of them.
Sam: Is that our girl?
Laura: That's our girl!
Taliesin: I'm running in. Do I know how to disable the rack?
Matt: You can probably figure it out with a tinker.
Liam: Pike!
Travis: Is it chains or rope?
Laura: Come heal her!
Liam: We need Pike in here!
Travis: Is it chains or rope?
Sam: I'll go!
Matt: It's chains holding her on.
Taliesin: I'm going to undo it.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Wait. Do we know it's her?
Matt: Go ahead and make a tinker check.
Laura: It's her. It's gotta be her.
Orion: Whoever it is, we should help.
Taliesin: What do I add? Is it proficiency bonus?
Matt: Proficiency bonus.
Taliesin: 12.
Matt: 12? You take a moment and you manage to find where the winch to this machine is, where you can go ahead and release the tension and eventually the chains go a little more slack and (gasps) the halfling woman takes a deep breath and looks about the room a second, looks like there's a bit of a haze, but through the haze there's this constant anger and she looks down and goes: "So? Are you gonna let me go? Come on! Release these chains!"
Ashley: Who is she?
Travis: Wait, wait. Find out who she is first.
Laura: Can we insight and make sure that it's really who she--
Matt: You can indeed. This is an insight check.
Laura: Great, I don't get any... Anybody else want to roll for insight?
Liam: 5, 1. Pike, roll well. The twins fucked it.
Ashley: Insight?
Liam: Scanlan! Come up here!
Sam: Yeah, yeah, oh.
Ashley: 15! 15?
Liam: She's not in her right mind.
Matt: It's a very small room, only a few people can make it in here.
Sam: I'm gonna take a peek at her. What do I do? What do I roll?
Liam: Insight to see if she's in her right mind.
Ashley: 15? 18 is better.
Matt: At this point, it's pretty apparent that whatever this woman is, she's been here a while and has been subjected to many, many horrible things and still has that spark of life to her, mainly out of vengeance, anger, and pain, but she does not seem to be overtly aggressive or trying to deceive you; just trying to get out of these fucking chains.
Laura: Well, let's let her go.
Orion: I'll do an Arcana check on her.
Matt: What's that? Arcana check? To...?
Orion: See if there's like any kind of magical impurities in her.
Travis: If she's under the Imperius Curse.
Matt: Best you can tell, there's none.
Liam: I'm pulling out my lockpicks and I'm going to start working on--
Sam: I'm going to heal her with a little bit of a song.
Liam: And you know my lockpick snaps so... just totally broken.
Ashley: How hurt is she?
Sam: If I may.
Matt: She's pretty rough. As you look up, she's not clothed. Her body is just a spray of scars and gashes and rake marks. She's been tortured to an extent you hadn't seen in person, and to still be tensing her muscles against the chains and looking at you with this intensity, if this is indeed Lady Kima, you now see why she's made the reputation she has.
Liam: Grog, the locking mechanism on this is jammed.
Sam: Okay. So, I step forward and I pull out my flute and I sing, (singing) "As long as I got my song and flute, I'm gonna give some healing to you. Love and magic in the air tonight, gonna give you some hit points. Gonna give you some hit points, gonna give you some hit points of our love." (all laugh)
Sam: Dadadanana, okay. I roll 9 hit points.
Matt: The fresher wounds seal up, the blood flow comes to a stop. You see her muscles tense for a moment - her tension in her muscles relax for a minute. She looks to you for a second and says, "It's been a while since I've heard a song. Thank you."
Sam: It was a slow jam.
Taliesin: Please be careful for a moment. Can someone cover her ears for just a second?
Travis: Yeah, I got it.
Ashley: Earmuffs.
Taliesin: I'm going to utility shot - I'm going to put my gun against the lock, somewhere where it will not harm her and just blow it.
Matt: Go ahead and roll damage. You don't have to roll to hit, it's right there.
Taliesin: 15. Is it two locks?
Matt: Well, there's one chain for the legs, one chain for the arms.
Taliesin: Okay. 15 for the leg. 10 for the arm.
Matt: (gunshot sound) The legs get free. (gunshot sound) The chain mostly snaps on the top part, but not quite enough. It's enough for you, Grog, to-
Travis: I got it! (snarling)
Matt: You reach over and bring it down, with a brief moment of extreme tension as the whole room watches Grog walk up with his axe and swing it down towards this halfling. Before you have a moment to stop, everyone's heart skips a beat. The chain is bisected--
Liam: Ease down! Ease down.
Matt: --at which point the halfling woman immediately jumps to her feet with almost like a kip-up stand and is now standing on top of the table. Her arms are still bound and she - (groans) You can now see where the metal was weakened from the axe blow. She (metal snapping SFX) pulls herself free from the metal binding--
Travis: That's hot.
Matt: --there's a blister across her wrist, from how long she's been pulling against these restraints. But she bore through it, with a little bit of blood that trickles from that wound. She has freed herself and she looks around the rest of the group. "So, I take it you're not from around here?"
Orion: No! Would you like some water?
Matt: She grabs it from you, pulls off the cork and just starts chugging like she hasn't had anything to drink in a long time.
Laura: Lady Kima, we need to get you out of here.
Liam: Allura has sent us.
Matt: She caps it off after a moment and takes a deep breath. "I'd hoped she would. It was foolish of me to come down here so unprepared. Just knew there wasn't much time." (chuckles)
Liam: Time 'til what?
Matt: She looks around and says, "Look, we don't- it's a story. I have no--" And she kind of points to her pretty much unclothed, unarmored form, and says, "I need to find my implements. We need to get out of here."
Travis: Could I offer to you this black, studded leather, dwarven armor? It's not leather, actually.
Liam: It's magical, it'll fit you.
Orion: Would you care for this robe?
Laura: Which sounds better?
Matt: What armor were you offering her?
Travis: It's the black, dwarven armor--
Liam: The armor that I found and gave to Grog. It's magical.
Matt: Oh, the studded leather.
Liam: Yes.
Travis: It's in the bag.
Matt: She goes, "Sure, it works for now." She takes it from you and starts putting it on. You see her wincing as she puts it on, as it covers some of the wounds. Her whole body is just sore, but she still pushes through it.
Ashley: I'm going to heal her a little bit more.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: I'll put my hands on her. I'm sorry. You're not fully healed, let me help you out.
Travis: (quietly) Grog likes scars.
Matt: As you do, she takes a moment and she says - You heal her and she goes, "Can I-" She sees your mace and goes, "Can I borrow that for a second?"
Ashley: Uh...
Matt: "Please?"
Ashley: My mace?
Matt: "Your mace, please."
Ashley: What do you need it for? (all laugh)
Travis: You can have mine.
Matt: "Do you trust me?"
Ashley: I don't know. This is all I have to protect myself.
Matt: "You've come this far."
Orion: Grog has something for you.
Sam: Say yes to life, Pike.
Ashley: All right, well, I also have a morningstar, but this is-- (all laugh)
Ashley: Are you gonna give it back?
Matt: As you hand it out, she grabs it from your hands--
Ashley: That was rude.
Matt: --walks to the edge of the table--
Ashley: I don't like her.
Matt: --stares at the dwarf that is currently hooked onto the wall. (angry yell) And with a yell, slams it right into his face, causing his head to explode against the back of the wall. Slams it again and again and again, and is just making hamburger of his entire body. The arm sloughs off and she's just going nuts. You can see her bludgeoning over and over again with a spray of gore on her. And there's this look of anger, frustration--
Laura: She's raging.
Matt: --and a sick sense of joy a little bit in her eyes in how she's just tearing this dwarf apart. Eventually, after this frenzy, you're all taken aback, and she takes a moment. (heavy breathing) There is very little left recognizable of what once was a duergar.
Sam: I notice a bulge in Grog's pants. (all laugh)
Orion: I use my Mage Hand to slowly pick up my bottle of water... (all laugh)
Matt: Okay. She takes the mace she borrowed from you. (splatter sound)
Ashley: I'm sorry I questioned you.
Matt: As she begins to hand it back to you, there's a slight flash of radiant energy that emanates from her hand, and it burns all of the blood that currently encapsulates the mace off, and hands it back to you. "Thank you. I needed that."
Ashley: You're very welcome. I'm sorry I questioned you.
Orion: Give her something, Grog! Let her use one of your things!
Travis: That was amazing. (all laugh)
Orion: Like, you know, give her one of your things, Grog.
Travis: Could I, um, would you like to touch my axe? (all laugh)
Matt: "If you want to part with it, certainly."
Travis: Oh, uh. (clears throat, sniffs) Maybe we should get out of here. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Why don't we collect your things?
Laura: Yeah, where are they? Do you know?
Taliesin: I would assume they're being stored upstairs.
Matt: "I have no idea. They're either in the vault or they're in the armory."
Sam: Vault or the armory? Those are places that we can go?
Laura: There's a vault?
Taliesin: Are there stairs in the room that we're in?
Matt: "As far as I can tell, my--"
Liam: Lady Kima, are these things absolutely necessary? We have a secret entrance to this place. We could leave now. Are they of vital importance, the things you've lost?
Matt: She thinks to herself for a second, and goes, "They are divine implements, gifted to me from an avatar of Bahamut directly. I feel, to leave them behind would be a partial failure to my quest. Not to mention, that what we may face beyond this, we'll need every bit of help we can get."
Travis: Oh, shit.
Liam: Well, that's that then.
Orion: You'll have a friend in us, that's for sure.
Laura: Let's find the frigging vault!
Taliesin: Let's go upstairs.
Liam: Let's go to the vault! Let's go upstairs.
Matt: As you show the back of that card, she gives you a look and smiles and says, "Ah. It's good to see that your scale of color does not belie your intent. That is a face I've not seen for some time. I thank you." She leaps off the table. "So." (sighs) "Shall we?"
Sam: Do you know where the vault is?
Matt: "I can show you."
Laura: (whispering) Yes!
Sam: Lead the way!
Marisha: I go up to her, still in my Minxy form, and I rub on her legs.
Taliesin: Have you dropped the body yet?
Travis: I get right up behind them too, competing for space.
Taliesin: Are you dragging a dead body around?
Marisha: No, I dropped the body. While she was talking, I took the body, and I drug it back, and I buried my shame. (all laugh)
Marisha: So, first, I buried my shame.
Matt: Your shame has been sufficiently buried. (laughter continues)
Orion: Hashtag bury your shame.
Marisha: And I purr.
Matt: She doesn't look at you, but she pats you absentmindedly as she passes you, her direct intent on heading back up those stairs herself.
Laura: All right.
Sam: Let's go, but should we unlock all the other dwarves?
Laura: Yes, let's let all the other dwarves out, and maybe give them some food to try to help them out, if we can.
Travis: In the meantime, I have a greatsword or a morningstar mace that you can have until we find your items.
Matt: "Greatsword."
Travis: Greatsword it is.
Matt: She takes it from you, and the sword is a little over a foot taller than she is. Maybe a little more than that.
Laura: She's really fricking buff.
Matt: But as you hand it to her, she still takes it, and you can see--
Liam: She's a ripped halfling.
Laura: That's pretty badass.
Matt: --she is a built halfling female. She has seen some war, and she has survived some shit.
Liam: She's the Tyler Durden of halflings. (all laugh)
Matt: Kind of, yeah.
Travis: As I see her grab the sword, I ask, "Would you care for some ale?" (all laugh)
Matt: She glances over her shoulder at you, and says, "Later. We have nothing to celebrate for yet."
Travis: Absolutely. Plenty of time! (all laugh)
Liam: I think Grog is smitten!
Laura: She comes to your knee.
Liam: Oh my goodness!
Laura: Can I run in the little prison, and tell the dwarves, if they are conscious, to say, "Don't exit from where you came. There's a secret entrance up and in a store room. Go that way, and stealth out."
Matt: One of the ones that was semi-conscious--
Laura: All of that, I say all of it.
Matt: He sits up and looks at-- (laughs) That's fucked up. Sits up and looks back at you and - (ragged breathing) "Thank ye. Thank ye kindly."
Laura: Here's some cheese! (all laugh)
Matt: He takes it hungrily through the bars and just starts eating it, incessantly, as you leave.
Taliesin: Government cheese.
Liam: Is provolone all you've got?
Matt: Lady Kima's already up the stairs.
Laura: It's Velveeta.
Matt: (disgusted groan) Velveeta!
Sam: We're following up the stairs.
Marisha: (laughs) It's calories!
Matt: All right. Clean this off here.
Laura: Oh goodness, oh goodness!
Taliesin: It's going to be fun! Savage burning--
Travis: I'm right with Minxy, competing for first place.
Liam: I place a hand on Lady Kima’s shoulder--
Marisha: First place, for how fucked-up we are.
Travis: Perfection! (laughs)
Marisha: Perfection! (laughs)
Liam: --place a hand on Kima's shoulder and say, "Please, allow me," and move several feet ahead of her and start sneaking along.
Matt: As you move up to her, you notice she's standing at the bottom of the stairs with a tension, staring up at the top of the stairway, where Clarota is looking down at her--
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: --and backing away, and she goes--
Orion: Oh! Yes. Uh--
Laura: Wait- Wait!
Matt: "Who is this filthy--"
Taliesin: No no no no!
Marisha: (screams)
Orion: I put my Mage Hand in front of her. Wait, wa-wait! Hold on! It- it's fine! Er, this mind flayer is with us! We saved him, or he- he's our ally now; he's fine. No one needs to fight. He, uh, she's fine, he's fine. His name is Clarota.
Taliesin: He's been an enormous help.
Matt: Without taking her eyes off of Clarota--
Orion: This is Kiva-
Sam: Kima.
Orion: Kima.
Matt: She looks back over - (laughs)
Orion: We are allies, all, yes?
Matt: "Are you to tell me that you've come down here and allied yourself with an entity that is the anathema of the Mountain?"
Orion: Yes!
Travis: Uh, what was that word?
Liam: I'm right at her shoulder, so I say, "We understand he's dangerous, but he's gotten us this far."
Matt: "And for what purpose? You think they don't have plots lined out for weeks and months--"
Orion: No, no, no! Listen, listen-
Matt: "--there is no trust to be had with these creatures."
Liam: He has been shit out by these creatures. They do not want him or trust him. He is an outcast. And we are working together, in this moment, and without him we would not have gotten here.
Laura: We see a single tear drop from Clarota's eye.
Matt: "And with him you will never get out."
Orion: No! We have his, er, alliance. There's a greater entity controlling his people, which he has been outcast from, like Vax was saying!
Matt: "And have you not thought for a second that perhaps all of you are being manipulated by this creature?"
Ashley: Well, I have.
Matt: You can see the greatsword now flares with divine energy and she goes, "I will not stand here and let us ally ourselves with this filth!"
Orion: (shouting) "Lady Kima!" And I blow fire breath. And I use Control Flames to create a bunch of swords around me with fire.
Laura: Don't threaten Kima! She's better.
Orion: (harshly) I give you my word.
Matt: Her attention divided from Clarota, now tends towards you.
Orion: Don't act me a fool, and don't treat me like one either! None of us are half-wits as you are claiming. We would not be fooled by such a creature like this. The words he speaks are true. And we believe him.
Matt: You go ahead and make a diplomacy check. Or a persuasion. Persuasion check.
Laura: Oh god!
Liam: Get it on, Tiberius!
Travis: Do it.
Liam: Get. It. On.
Orion: That's terrible.
Liam: Oh. Get it off?
Sam: Not good.
Laura: Not good?
Sam: Not good!
Orion: 12.
Matt: 12. Okay. She walks towards you, and with each step, you can see the color of her eyes begins to vanish, giving way to an extremely bright, burning, silver light. And she says--
Laura: (whispering) Oh my god, she's so cool!
Matt: "Listen. You come with me. Without this creature! Or you continue with it, and without me."
Orion: Why you have to be like that?
Matt: "I will not walk beside this. I have had its people devour mine since I set foot in here. This creature, whatever its reasoning is, is not in your best interest. It will lead you into a web of your own destruction! I've seen their kind work."
Liam: Clarota!
Orion: Yeah, they're mostly buttholes, but he's not a butthole! (all laugh)
Orion: I understand that -
Liam: Clarota!
Orion: - we had to kill a couple and he actually helped a lot!
Liam: Speak your mind! Convince her. Fix this.
Matt: Clarota, at the top of the stairs, you can see his tendrils in his mouth curl back in a sneer, his hands crossed before--
Orion: He won't even do anything!
Matt: --Clarota says, (gasping, breathy voice) "Listen. I am not going to walk where I am not welcome. I will not wake up with this--"
Liam: Giving us a Walking Dead decision.
Matt: "--woman's blade in my back! We made a deal."
Marisha: People with kids. You deal with this all the time.
Liam: I walk between them and put hands out.
Laura: Come on, roll a 20!
Liam: And say, "We all want the same thing. Kima. Tell us. What is it that you've come here for? What is your purpose here? Speak your mind, if you are true."
Matt: Kima turns back towards you, the same glowing flare in her eyes. "I've come here to rid this mountain and this continent of the darkness that resides deep within the bowels of this thing's city!"
Liam: Clarota, why have you come here. What is it you seek?
Matt: Clarota settles into itself for a second. "Ah, I've come to destroy this creature K'Varn and free my people."
Liam: Then the two of you. Get over your fucking shit. (all laugh)
Liam: We want the same thing here. Get over yourselves. Both of you. We share a common purpose. We are going to end this fucking bullshit. Kima, we have come here for you. Pay us the respect that we have earned. We have come a long way for you. He is an unlikely ally, but he has gotten us to this point. And together, for this moment and this moment only, we can work together. We don't have to be school chums or buddies in a week from now. But right now, right here, we will work together and achieve the same thing. What say you, Kima?
Matt: She looks towards you and says, "Free his people, he says. What do you think will happen once his people are free? Shall they let us walk out on our own?"
Orion: Yes! He said so! And then they'll be buttholes when we leave!
Matt: "You know so very little of these dark caverns, my dragon friend."
Orion: Yeah, it's our first time here!
Matt: "These entities I watched steal the very life essence of the men and women I hired and travelled with for weeks down here. I watched them capture them, and devour their very minds before me, and laugh and cackle as I fled into the shadows."
Laura: But they were under control of K'Varn at that point. Yeah!
Matt: "Oh! Understand; whether or not K'Varn controls them to give them direction, they are of that type of mindset at all points. They do not hope society will thrive. They do not want us free peoples to walk the surface. They want us for food."
Sam: Lady Kima, if I may. If you're intending us to choose between you, and our ally Clarota, and we can't get you to see eye to eye with us, then I'm afraid you leave us no choice but to choose our own friend Clarota over you.
Laura: (gasps) What?
Sam: We're giving you one last chance. Either you are with us, or you are against us. This is a threat.
Matt: "So you walk in here, save me from my binds, under the words of my dear, lifelong friend Arcanist Allura--"
Sam: We mean you no ill will. It is you who are aggravating the situation.
Liam: You could be sitting in a cell by yourself doing fuck-all, or ending this problem now.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Marisha: Everyone's giving her inspirational talks.
Laura: I'm so nervous! Oh, Scanlan, come on!
Sam: Well, I rolled a 3...
Liam: I rolled a 13.
Sam: But I have a plus 13! So that's a 16.
Liam: Plus 13? 3 plus 13? Okay.
Ashley: Plus, plus, uh... hold on. (all laugh)
Ashley: Because, you didn't- where the fuck. (all laugh)
Ashley: War God's Blessing!
Matt: Cleric flail!
Ashley: No, I can't do that, because that's when a person makes an attack roll. (all laugh)
Ashley: Get 'em, Scanlan! (all laugh)
Taliesin: Can I assist?
Laura: He assisted because he was talking--
Matt: Unfortunately, it's too late. Once the roll--
Sam: No, he was with me, he was with me.
Laura: He assisted?
Matt: Right, right. And because of that, the DC has been considered. She takes a moment and steps forward. She's a few inches taller than you.
Sam: Of course she is! Everyone is! (all laugh)
Matt: And she looks at you, and says, "He of the pretty voice. I am grateful that all of you have come and traversed all this danger in my name, to free me from the binds that have held me. And I do wish, very much, to walk alongside you to this end. And I understand, it may be very well possible that this thing has taken your minds without your knowledge. However--" And her eyes close for a second, and she opens them again, and that radiant spark of silver fades, and her normal eye color returns. "We see ourselves with little choices. And I have very little allies at this point to achieve my goal."
Laura: (whispering) Oh, thank god.
Matt: "If we are to travel together, this one must walk in step the entire time. One single misstep, and I will not hesitate to carve that head from your body in the name of Bahamut."
Orion: I'm sorry. Do you mean like dancing?
Travis: I will help you do that if he missteps.
Matt: Clarota, hands still crossed, takes a step down the stairs towards her. Its tendrils in its mouth kind of-- (slurping SFX) (breathy voice) "And please, understand, if you ever intend to try and cut my life short, I will also not hesitate to bore that beautiful mind from your skull."
Liam: Once we murder this K'Varn, you guys are going to laugh so hard.
Laura: (laugh)
Matt: (laugh)
Sam: So friends then?
Orion: Allies, allies.
Travis: Allies, allies.
Laura: Allies?
Taliesin: I suppose everybody understands everyone now.
Orion: Allies. Clarota likes allies.
Laura: Good times.
Liam: The enemy of my enemy...
Orion: Is...
Laura: Is my...
Sam: Has mind-sucking tentacles.
Matt: She looks back at the rest of you and gives you all an understanding look and a nod and she says, "I pray that you are right. I pray that you're honest and I pray that through some strange will of the gods, this entity is telling the truth. Because if it's not, none of us will make it out of here alive."
Liam: We're playing a game of chess here, Kima, and we will win.
Laura: I whisper in her ear "I would have chosen you."
Sam: And I start humming 'Kumbaya'. (all laughing)
Sam: Kumbaya, my lord. Kumbaya.
Orion: I take the dagger and make a happy face of fire.
Matt: She doesn't notice this, as she steps up the stairs towards Clarota.
Laura: Oh god. Okay.
Matt: Clarota steps back, hands up in front, this little spark of arcane energy forming in his hands. Clarota [sic], bringing the sword up in front of her, pushes Clarota aside and continues ascending back up the stairs to the first level. (offscreen thump)
Matt: --To the first level. (all laugh)
Orion: Killing two guards on the way.
Matt: Clarota puts the hands folded back together. (unimpressed huff) (breathy voice) "Shall we?" And walks up the stairs after her. And you all begin to ascend back onto the first floor and that’s where we’ll end the game for this evening. (Multiple groans and exclamations)
Marisha: What? No. What time is it? I thought we just got started?
Travis: I thought we were going to have to pick. We got like ten more minutes!
Marisha: Yeah, we have ten more minutes.
Sam: No, no, no. That's fine, that's fine.
Laura: No, yeah, that is a good place, or we're going to get in a battle.
Matt: (chuckles) Depending on where you guys are going next it could be a bit of a lengthy encounter, so...
Laura: Oh god.
Liam: So the building is empty.
Matt: It's totally empty.
Laura: Completely empty.
Liam: There's ghouls everywhere.
Matt: There’s nobody in there. No one has any idea that you're here.
Travis: Wait, show of hands, if we have to pick between one or the other, who's picking Kima?
Orion: Oh, Kima?
Travis: Who's picking turtle-face?
Liam: I don't know.
Orion: She's Allura's friend, right?
Travis: We're going to throw down, this is gonna be Marvel versus DC in this bitch.
Laura: She's Allura's friend, she's good!
Liam: Undecided, I don't know.
Laura: Would you pick Kima?
Travis: Yeah!
Laura: Okay, yeah.
Sam: You just want her because she's badass and you could hump her.
Travis: Yeah! (all laugh)
Matt: Oh, Grog.
Laura: That would be the most awkward humping ever.
Orion: That's a good idea. Grog! You can go hump, I can get Allura.
Liam: She can hump your leg.
Travis: Did you see her work in that room of blood?
Taliesin: Only one of them is demanding that I become a liar.
Marisha: Isn't Kima a dwarf?
Matt: No, Kima is a halfling.
Laura: Kima is a halfling.
Marisha: Halfling?
Liam: She's a ropy, muscular, halfling.
Ashley: Wait, dang it! I wanted to take some torture weapons!
Matt: You can go back if you want to.
Ashley: Yeah, can I go back since we have ten minutes and go get some torture weapons?
Liam: What's it for?! (all laugh)
Matt: This would be pretty quick, you have to grab some things as everyone is heading up the stairs.
Liam: Who's your deity? Harvey Keitel? (More laughing)
Ashley: No! Just for Grog!
Matt: So, Pike, the war priest, however, who the light of Sarenrae has guided her through her life, once a gifted being of light and joy, upon coming to the edge of death, her soul taken from her form and returned, going at sea and traveling with some of the more rough and tumble folks of the landscape, has returned now with her mind bent on war, vengeance--
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: --and what it means to win a battle, through force if necessary. Watching Pike rush off and going to gather up what appear to be two large, bladed hooks--
Ashley: (hissing)
Matt: .--a lengthy hand-razor--
Taliesin: Nice.
Ashley: Okay, wait, hold on. Lengthy hand-razor...
Marisha: You're going to go Sweeney Todd all up in this shit.
Laura: (mimicking Ashley) Hold on, hold on. Lengthy hand-razor. (More laughter)
Liam: A Milli Vanilli album, and...
Ashley: Wait, what was the first one?
Matt: Two large, pointed hooks that are about two feet in length. Almost like a bladed jai alai.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: And you gather a small bag of various instruments that are rusty and nasty.
Laura: Ew.
Matt: There is just some leather pouch and you put that in your bag. It's all you have time to grab before you have to bolt back up to get to the rest.
Taliesin: (swishing SFX)
Matt: And we'll pick up the next game as you guys head up the stairs back into the hallway you first entered in the center of the Emberhold duergar stronghold, Lady Kima released and a very tentative alliance. So, thank you guys all for watching.
Ashley: Whoo!
Marisha: Pain in the ass, Lady Kima. Pain in my ass.
Laura: Hey.
Zac: Oh hey.
Matt: Hello, Zac!
Zac: I was doing my little pop-ins here.
Matt: Yeah.
Zac: So we had some donations to the charity.
Matt: Oh, that's awesome!
Laura: Really?
Marisha: Yeah!
Marisha: Thanks guys.
Zac: I have really terrible handwriting, so... So I wrote these myself and I'm supposed to read them and...
Matt: Right, right, that's okay.
Zac: TheConman93.
Matt: Conman93, thank you!
Zac: ...Marilyn?
Matt: Marilyn, thank you!
Zac: A123Junior.
Matt: A123Junior, appreciate it, buddy.
Zac: Poltergeist123.
Matt: Poltergeist123, yeah. All good movies. First two.
Zac: Almsnuffufin... Um, Eon? Something?
Matt: Yeah MisnurMenfrishunsen.
Zac: AxisOfAnarchy...
Matt: Thank you. Nice, Axis.
Zac: RuzGofDi.
Matt: RuzGofDi! Thank you guys so much for donating! Really appreciate it.
Zac: Give to charity. Thank you.
Matt: Thank you, guys.
Zac: So thank you guys for tuning in tonight and for all you front page viewers. We stream 6 to 7 hours 5 to 6 days a week. We do a lot of varied programming, from comic book shows to tabletop gaming to Steam group games, indie gaming. All sorts of fun stuff. Every Friday night we have live music and bands play and stuff.
Laura: Nice!
Zac: And tomorrow we're having a special party to celebrate our reaching 2000 subscribers.
Matt: Yeah. That's awesome. (Cheering and clapping)
Zac: You guys are all welcome to stop by.
Matt: We might just do that. Awesome.
Zac: It's from 7 to 9 we'll have a band playing, we're gonna do some fun group games. Probably play some inappropriate Cards Against Humanity. And Super Fight and stuff like that.
Matt: As if there was appropriate Cards Against Humanity.
Zac: Every time I break it out, I'm like, I should never do this. (all laugh)
Matt: I know. It's part of the fun. And we're every Thursday, 7 o'clock, 7PM Pacific Standard Time. Usually we run about 2 and a half, 3 hours, our game sessions. So please come watch every Thursday. We love to have you guys.
Zac: And for Team Hooman tomorrow is Ify Appreciation Day. So if you guys want to get on that. And for those that know Ify as sholfboys and not much else, Ify is a really prominent figure in the local comedy scene and he does a lot of work on shows like Key & Peele, Comedy Bang! Bang!, stuff like that. He's a really talented dude. You should look him up before you write those tweets just so you know more of what he's about. And we are going to throw that dropcam up and set up for dancing. If any of you want to stay, you're welcome to. If not, you're welcome to leave. No one is going to force you, except chatroom now that I brought it up. (all laugh)
Ashley: I mean, it's a good workout after all this food.
Zac: You burn some calories after all that chicken, right?
Ashley: Burn some calories...
Laura: Right, right.
Matt: Exactly.
Zac: We are, I think, 20 away from a giveaway. So as long as we're live, the giveaway counts.
Travis: Is valid.
Matt: Exactly.
Zac: So, if you get 20 subs before we go offline we will ship this wherever you are in the world. So, let's throw the dropcam up!
Matt: Yeah guys, thank you so much! (kiss)

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to this evening's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy voice actors sit around a table and play Dungeons & Dragons. If you are returning, welcome back. For those who it's their first time watching us live on the stream, welcome to the chaos. So, before I begin, a couple of quick notifications I want to give you guys. We had our first subscriber giveaway hit before the show started at 4,200. It was LL1973. Turn the mic around. Oh, now you can hear me. Look at this! The magic of live. Live communication. You have a wonderful view of this fantastic midsection. It's delightful. There we go. Is that better?
Zac: Yep.
Matt: Velcome. So, welcome to Critical Role, for those who didn't hear me before. D&D, voice actors, you know the drill now. So our first giveaway already happened tonight for the subscriber count at 4,200 to LL1973. Congratulations. You're going to be winning a signed Player's Handbook of Dungeons & Dragons Fifth Edition, as well as a signed photo of the Critical Role cast. Our next one will be at 4,250, so, up to every fifty subscribers after that we will be giving away an additional Player's Handbook and photo signed by the cast. Awesome times. (cheering)
Marisha: Awesome times?
Matt: Indeed, very awesome times.
Marisha: Good times, good time together.
Matt: I think so, indeed. Also, as a heads-up to you guys, there will be no Critical Role next week because the San Diego Comic-Con is happening. Down in San Diego.
Marisha: We're doing a panel, aren't we?
Matt: I know, we have a panel, though. We have a panel Thursday, I'll be on the main Geek and Sundry panel with Laura at 1-2 and then we have our actual full Critical Role panel from 4-5. So if you are going to be there, come see us at PetCo Park on Thursday.
Laura: You don't need a badge.
Matt: Nope, you can just come and walk on in.
Marisha: Yeah, it is at PetCo Park, so don't get lost looking around the convention center. Because it won't be there. It's at PetCo Park.
Matt: It's the big sports stadium, which to me is a wonderful irony of us giving a panel about Dungeons & Dragons in the center of a giant sports stadium. That's right! Indoor kids. However, however, they are also filming the panel for those who can't be there. The panel will be on the stream the following day, I believe, so check it out there, after, with the rest of the Comic-Con stream coverage. It'll be fun. Yeah, so that'll be good. The week after that, me and Marisha are going to be out of town in New Zealand, so this means a two-week period without Critical Role main-story stuff, and I apologize, this is all stuff that got planned before the stream even started. We'll be at a convention in New Zealand. For those out there planning to come to Armageddon, please come see us, we'll be down there. It'll be fun for all New Zealand fans. Otherwise, the rest of the Critical Role cast that are available will be here and will play some other sort of game together and generally interact with the chat and have a good time until we return. So.
Marisha: We're working it out.
Matt: Yeah, we're getting the circumstance ironed out.
Marisha: Hi, Liam!
Orion: Hi, Liam!
Matt: We have Liam on Skype over here.
Liam: Hi, guys.
Matt: What's up, buddy?
Liam: Hi!
Matt: Liam, who's finishing up his vacation as well. As far as I understand, we have a--
Marisha: How's New Jersey?
Liam: I am deep in upstate New York on the Canadian border.
Matt: Slowly migrating into expatriotism. Don't go Canadian on us.
Liam: It's frightening to drive here at night. I can't wait to do it at two in the morning.
Laura: Yay.
Matt: Yes.
Ashley: I'm drinking out of your mug.
Matt: She is.
Liam: My mug? Here's mine.
Matt: On river time, there you go.
Marisha: On river time, what?
Matt: That is-- that's a mug.
Marisha: Did you instantly turn into a 64-year-old golfer as soon as you went there?
Liam: I'm on a river. I'm on a river.
Laura: I'm on a boat. I'm on a boat.
Matt: So that's going on. Other things we want to mention. We'll have a special presentation at the break today. We're taking a break from the 826LA charity for another special charity that has been running for the past week known as GameChanger: it's a cancer charity and it's been working in conjunction with SquareEnix this past week. To raise money for cancer research, they've been doing-- if you donate $1 to it they're giving away codes for the first Deus Ex game for PC and a lot of other fun stuff. We'll have more information and a presentation for you at the break. So be aware that's the fun charity we're promoting tonight, so if anyone has the ability to give, please do, they're an awesome charity. We're also waiting on Sam Riegel and Taliesin Jaffe, they're both fighting traffic but will be here shortly. However, let's go ahead and cut to the intro to give us a one-minute break, and then we'll jump right into this crazy, crazy episode. So see you in just a moment. [no audio] Well, while we get that figured out--
Orion: Oh, is this a podcast now?
Matt: Apparently.
Orion: (old-timey voice) Old time radio.
Marisha: Well, I think the intro--
Matt: Intro video's frozen.
Orion: Damn it.
Matt: Also, this is, as opposed to making it a surprise, this'll be our last game for a little while with--
Laura: No, don't say it, don't say it yet.
Matt: Don't say it-- okay.
Travis: If you say it, it makes it true.
Marisha: Makes it too real.
Matt: Okay, you're right.
Orion: Ooh.
Matt: I'll hold off, all right.
Liam: Unfortunately, Travis has to leave the show.
Matt: No, that's not true. Grog's ale still needs to be filled.
Travis: Smash.
Matt: Indeed. So we'll patiently wait, folks, pizza at the ready. Now.
Marisha: What's going on?
Liam: Is there a full table behind this computer?
Laura: Pretty much.
Matt: There is, yes.
Laura: Travis is directly behind you.
Liam: Am I in his chest again?
Laura: Yeah, you might be even in his face at this point.
Orion: It's pretty good, though, I like this better than the iPad.
Marisha: And we can see you more.
Laura: Can you still see Travis?
Marisha: Yeah.
Orion: Yeah.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: It'll be fine.
Orion: How can we not see him?
Marisha: Yeah. (laughs)
Laura: That's true.
Orion: He's a mountain of man.
Travis: I am Rushmore.
Marisha: Travis takes up this side of the frame.
Orion: I'm Rushmore.
Matt: If we're having an issue with the intro video, do you want to just go to the game?
Travis: We can do a live intro video.
All: (intro video music)
Matt: Grog! Goliath Barbarian.
Marisha: (crow sound) (laughter)
Matt: -- and we're done.
Travis: I'd been thinking that this had to happen at some point.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Boomf! I was being you, Tiberius.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: We could totally do a Brady Bunch.
Marisha: Ah ha!
Laura: Light!
Matt: That was pretty good.
Travis: You guys are on the bottom of the feed, right?
Orion: Right.
Travis: So if you looked up and we looked down, we'd essentially be looking at each other.
Marisha: Oh right, Brady Bunch style!
Laura: (gasps) Oh, no way.
Travis: Oh, hi guys.
Marisha: Hi, Travis.
Orion: Is that how it looks?
Travis: And then everyone looks to the right to look at Mercer.
Laura: No, yeah, everyone looks to the same--
Travis: Oh, we look right, you look left.
Travis: No.
Matt: No.
Matt: They look right. Everyone looks right.
Marisha: Everyone looks right? So if we're looking this way, "Hi, Matt!"
Matt: And I disapprovingly look to my left. There you go.
Ashley: Are we still on?
Marisha: Yeah.
Ashley: Still going?
Matt: Real-time Critical Role.
Marisha: We're still kind of confused.
Laura: I can't tell what happening.
Matt: So I figure if the intro video's not working, let's not worry about it. Let's just jump into the game and get this started. How about that?
Travis: Yeah, why not.
Matt: Cool with that?
Ashley: Wait, can we show someone that's here that's really cool?
Matt: What's up?
Marisha: Go ahead and bring him on?
Matt: Oh, well, we're waiting on the break, unless you want to do it now.
Ashley: Do it on the break.
Orion: So we have video problems?
Marisha: You can come say hi.
Orion: I'm Periscope-ing until we're not having video issues.
Matt: Well, as far as I know we're on camera.
Orion: Oh, we are?
Crew: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah, just the intro video's not working.
Orion: Okay.
Marisha: Oh, we probably could have been going for a while. We've just been like dicking around.
Orion: Bye, guys, we're live.
Matt: Ah, welcome to the chaos of live internet. All right, so let's--
Liam: I don't think we should go any more meta than it has to be.
Matt: Let's jump in, guys. Let's jump in. So a little bit of overview for those of you who are just joining us. At this point in the story, Vox Machina, this intrepid band of adventurers, misfits, whatever you must call them, completed an adventure through the Underdark, a very dangerous, cavernous--
Laura: Oh, Sam's here.
Matt: Oh, we're gonna let Sam in.
Marisha: Sam's here!
Orion: Yeah, he texted.
Matt: All right, so after completing this Underdark challenge, they discovered and managed to extract an evil artifact known as the Horn of Orcus that held great power and seemingly has a partner somewhere in the world that is unknown. But the one they have acquired is indestructible, as far as folks know, and it was decided by the Council of Tal'Dorei and Vox Machina that it should be sealed away and hopefully forgotten for the rest of eternity. The best place to do so came up in the conversation to be the city of Vasselheim, which is on a different continent far to the northwest of Tal'Dorei, the kingdom where most of the story as to this point has taken place, to be sealed in what is referred to as the Platinum Sanctuary, the oldest existing temple to Bahamut, the good platinum dragon deity. So they were given passage on a skyship to cross the Ozmit Sea to Othanzia, the continent that houses the capital city, Vasselheim. So the group gathered together, rode on to the magically elevated skyship, and are traversing the ocean carrying the Horn of Orcus within this holy container. Hello!
Marisha: Hi, Sam.
Matt: Sam has joined us.
Sam: Hi!
Matt: They found themselves over the ocean, suddenly attacked by a band of what seemed to be wyvern- and griffin-riding bandits. The battle took place on the top of the skyship, some of the magic being taken out, a few lives lost, but the party managed to persevere, take a captive, and continue on their journey, the Horn of Orcus and its container kept safe. And that's where we pick up and begin.
Sam: Can you say all of that again for me? (laughter)
Travis: You don't listen, anyway.
Matt: No.
Marisha: (laughs) You don't listen, anyway.
Matt: All righty, so as you guys have settled in, the Horn safe, you've taken a couple more days on this journey, what was told to be about a six-day journey across the ocean, six to seven days. Is there anything you guys wish to accomplish at this moment?
Sam: Are we in the air?
Matt: You are still in the air on the skyship.
Sam: Not much we can do.
Marisha: Well, we just-- so we fought off the wyverns.
Sam: Oh, do we have one? We have one.
Travis: Is the little magician halfling still being polite and brushing her teeth and stuff?
Laura: Oh, that's right, our little halfling that we--
Travis: Who you saved. Wuss.
Matt: Yes.
Sam: She's a mage, right?
Matt: That you saved. She is a mage, and she has also been bound, at the orders of the captain, so as not to cause any issues on the ship while she's there. So as to her future, after your conversation with him, as to whether or not she could work on this ship, based on the fact that their first meeting involved her and her band attacking and trying to murder his entire crew, Captain Damon was not too keen on the idea at the time being and decided to lock her up.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: So. We shall see her fate in the near future.
Travis: She's locked up.
Laura: Okay. She's locked up.
Travis: She's got tricks, though, right?
Matt: She has tricks, but there is an anti-magic brig built into the ship specifically for this purpose.
Sam: Ooh. Fancy.
Travis: That's all I needed to know.
Laura: Oh, that's good to know. I was going to pay you to put the kibosh on her.
Orion: She's negged.
Travis: Cool.
Matt: (laughs) So. I'll say that Percy is continuing to read his book. The next few days pass without incident. Is there anything you want to accomplish? Anything?
Orion: You said the next few days without incident? Cool.
Travis: Could I try to further my beard?
Sam: Oh, yes! Try to grow a beard.
Marisha: Yeah, his beard. Let's go for the beard.
Matt: Go ahead and roll another percentage dice.
Travis: Yeah! It's a d20, right?
Laura: It's a percentage die.
Travis: Oh, that's right, that's right. The two in a row. I remember.
Matt: Two d10s.
Travis: I'm learning. I'm learning.
Marisha: Yep.
Matt: First one and the second one.
Travis: Three. Eight.
Matt: 38. The little bit of peach-fuzz stubble on the chin of your goliath face begins to slowly grow. It's coming out colorless. It's almost translucent with a hint of gray and white.
Sam: Ew.
Laura: Ew.
Travis: I'm a Targaryen, baby. (laughter)
Liam: That's hot.
Laura: It's translucent, like--
Matt: A color is there. It's almost like fishing line is growing out of the bottom of his chin.
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Ugh.
Ashley: Whoa.
Travis: Don't be jealous.
Ashley: Grog, it's sparkling. It's sparkling!
Laura: It's really creepy, Grog.
Ashley: Hey, I feel it. It's like sandpaper, a little bit.
Travis: Thank you. Thank you.
Matt: Keep in mind, goliaths, predominantly-- especially pureblood goliaths-- do not grow facial hair. The fact that this magical feat is even achieving any modicum of growth is in itself an arcane marvel, and who knows what detrimental effects this may have in the long run, going against your physiology.
Travis: Oh, crap. It's all right. It'll make me look really wise, you guys. Nobody will know.
Marisha: I have some beads. If you want, we can braid it and put beads in there.
Laura: Ooh.
Travis: I'm all about it. Beads and bells and shit?
Marisha: Okay!
Marisha: I braid Grog's beard.
Travis: Give me a staff and I'll be Gandalf.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: And put beads in it. And a few flowers, as well.
Travis: Wait! Ooh, weird.
Marisha: It looks nice.
Travis: All right.
Matt: It takes you a lot of concentration to try and get any sort of braidage through the about an inch to inch and a half facial hair that is growing from his chin.
Marisha: Looks good!
Travis: It's really tight when you braid it like that. It pinches.
Marisha: You'll get used to it.
Laura: Maybe you can cast Grasping Vine on his chin and grow it out.
Matt: What could possibly go wrong? (laughter)
Travis: Do it. Could be great.
Orion: I suggest against this.
Travis: I thought you suggest violence.
Orion: No.
Sam: He encourages violence.
Laura: I encourage violence.
Orion: I'm against this.
Ashley: Is it just violence?
Laura: So we're healed. We're healed, right?
Sam: Oh, days have gone by, right?
Matt: Yeah, you guys have rested. Days have gone by, your spells have returned to you--
Liam: Hey, DM, days have gone by?
Laura: Trinket's feeling good.
Matt: Days have gone by at this time. You've continued traveling over the Ozmit Sea.
Orion: Are we nearing the destination?
Matt: I'll get to that in just a second. Do you have a question, Liam?
Liam: No, not a question, but last night while Grog was sleeping-- I can see right up Grog's nose. While Grog was sleeping, I went and got a bit of rope from the ship and used my disguise kit that I have. I sort of frayed a part of the rope and spent about an hour using spirit gum to glue bits of frayed rope to Grog's chin into a small Gilmore-esque goatee. And he didn't seem to wake up, and I'd like to see how that worked out.
Matt: (laughs) All righty.
Travis: I'm gonna do a sleep check or something, right? I can't let him survive that.
Matt: For this, go ahead and make a perception check with disadvantage.
Travis: With disadvantage?!
Sam: Because you're asleep!
Travis: One. (laughter)
Orion: Get it out now.
Matt: You wake up the following morning and immediately run to the nearest reflective surface to check on yourself, and you have a glorious, dark brown, well-braided, mildly frayed, thick, coarse goatee braid. It goes about a good three to four inches from the bottom of your chin. And you are very proud.
Travis: I knew it! I knew it! I am a special boy. (laughs) (laughter)
Travis: Only this one strand is this color and everything else is white and translucent, whatever--
Orion: I think it looks good on you, Grog.
Travis: Thank you! I wave my head and it whips around.
Ashley: (sings) I whip my beard back and forth.
Travis: (sings) I whip my beard back and forth.
Matt: It stays taut on your chin. All right, so as you reach the middle of the sixth day of travel, the sky, which up to this point had been fairly sunny and clear, begins to slowly cloud over. The weather grows more gray, and the clouds themselves seem to cluster more into-- I wouldn't say a stormfront, but definitely a more gloomy atmosphere.
Marisha: Can I do a nature check to see if this seems to be natural or arcane?
Matt: Certainly.
Orion: Nice.
Laura: (sings) With her big fancy die!
Marisha: Okay, that's a 10 plus-- 20, total.
Matt: All right. Looking at these clouds, it is a slow formation, and they aren't moving at an unnecessary speed or seem to have any ominous press towards you. It just seems like the weather itself towards this northern continent seems to be of a colder variety.
Orion: I'm going to sense the weather, I suppose, because this doesn't look fun.
Matt: Okay. The weather is cold.
Orion: Ooh, it's cold.
Travis: So the weather outside is frightful?
Laura: Good call, Tiberius. Good call. I agree, it is rather cold.
Orion: I don't like this. Scanlan.
Sam: Oi?
Orion: Like we were discussing earlier, would you be interested in the still-standing trade of my Ioun Stone for your circlet-crown thingy?
Sam: Oh, you know what, Tiberius, I have been giving this a lot of thought and consideration. What's for lunch?
Orion: What would you like for lunch? I already ate.
Sam: Oh. No. No, I was done with the conversation.
Travis: Oh, good diss.
Laura: Oh.
Ashley: Oh.
Orion: Well. Keyleth, if you could put a little slate up for me, I'd like to illustrate something for little Scanlan. And perhaps his tiny mind can comprehend it. (clears throat)
Laura: Ooh!
Ashley: Hey, that's rude.
Orion: Would you, perhaps, do this?
Laura: His tiny mind is exactly proportionate for the rest of his body, Tiberius.
Sam: Well, not the entire body.
Orion: I'm going to walk up to the hull and be like--
Marisha: No! Write it right here! I throw up a slate.
Orion: Oh. (clears throat)
Matt: Okay. It's the strangest wall you've constructed, as up in the air on the ship that is mostly constructed out of iron and metal, there is little to no stone available of which you can sprout a Wall of Stone. However, there are weights set up on top, so what you create is less of a smooth Wall of Stone and more of a very thin, brittle shale wall that may function for the time being, but probably won't stand up for more than five to ten minutes.
Orion: I see. Prestidigitation. Some chalk.
Matt: All right.
Orion: You see, Scanlan, you've had this particular piece for over ten, let's say, matches or weeks. You have used it zero times. In over six battles, over the same course, using it zero times. (laughter)
Orion: I, being a sorcerer, have a special ability called sorcerer points, where I can do multiple spells in a single round.
Sam: Yes.
Orion: Which none of you can do. Other than monks, of course.
Laura: That's true. Brag about it, Tiberius. Just keep bragging about it.
Orion: When I can do multiple spells, like two, versus you, who can do one, that means that I can do one more spell than you can per round. (laughter)
Sam: All right.
Orion: And every round after that. One hundred percent. (laughter)
Sam: This is amazing.
Orion: Your utilization of the actual item has been equivalent to nothing. In the interest of the group and the use of items in general, it would be wise to switch it, because you have needed extra spells like Invisibility--
Matt: The shale wall cracks. (laughter)
Orion: Several times.
Marisha: I'm sorry.
Orion: Where my item would be more useful in general to you.
Liam: May I ask, is magical ability inversely proportionate to wisdom?
Orion: Oh, me?
Sam: Who are you asking?
Ashley: Is magical ability inversely proportionate to wisdom?
Orion: Absolutely not. I am one of the strongest casters in all of Draconia, and it only takes the strength of my charisma to do my stuff.
Laura: Oh. Everything makes sense now, Tiberius.
Travis: So are you saying you want what he has back?
Sam: (laughs) I didn't recognize you, Grog. Is that you?
Travis: It is I, Brad Pitt from Legends of the Fall. (laughter)
Travis: My beard of glory.
Orion: That is a movie.
Travis: It's an old bard's tale.
Orion: So, Scanlan. What say you?
Sam: Your mathematical skills have been quite impressive.
Orion: I don't like to show them off.
Sam: No, no. For a man of such low wisdom, you are proving wiser than I ever imagined. (laughter)
Sam: I will gladly make this trade with you. You have convinced me.
Laura: Hey.
Marisha: Aww.
Orion: Oh, wonderful. Thank you.
Sam: Yes. Yes.
Ashley: Hey.
Laura: That's wonderful.
Sam: All right. Hugs, hugs, hugs. (laughter)
Orion: (explosion sound)
Sam: Now, what does this thing do?
Orion: Now you can store up to three level spells. Three of them in there.
Laura: Oh, it's better than the Pearl of Power!
Orion: And you don't have to expend spell slots to do the spells.
Sam: All right. Thank you very much.
Ashley: Hey.
Laura: That's a good trade.
Travis: Oh my god, that was so good.
Ashley: That was amazing.
Orion: You can put three Lightning Bolts in there and it costs nothing.
Ashley: Oh, math!
Sam: All right, all right. I'm man enough to admit that he's convinced me.
Travis: That was so good.
Ashley: That was awesome.
Travis: I don't know what you wrote, but it looked good.
Marisha: Oh, man.
Orion: I'm sorry.
Matt: The Ioun Stone which you had taken, you place by your head and release. It seems to fix itself in the air and slowly rotate above your head.
Orion: It orbits.
Matt: Almost held in its own orbital gravity around your head.
Laura: Ooh.
Sam: Pike.
Ashley: Oh. (laughs) Oh, wow. It's like you have a halo.
Orion: It is fancy.
Sam: It's like a halo. Like your god has smiled on me, maybe, and said, "He's cool. Go for it."
Ashley: Oh, wow. Well, I don't know if that's what it means.
Sam: Well. You know, religion is up to interpretation, so I interpret it that way.
Ashley: It is very cool-looking.
Sam: Thank you, Pike.
Travis: (laughs) So casual, her god. "It's cool. Go for it."
Matt: (laughs) Sarenrae. The she-bro you never had. (laughter)
Sam: Sarenrae's my wingman.
Ashley: We cool, Sarenrae.
Travis: I can't breathe.
Matt: Many a cart hold that bumper sticker. All right, so as this conversation comes to a close, the temperature in the sky has gotten noticeably chillier. And you swear for an instant you start seeing what looks like specks of white snow beginning to drift from the clouds ahead.
Marisha: (gasps) It's snowing.
Laura: It's snow, Keyleth.
Sam: (sings) I'm dreaming of a white whatever-we-celebrate.
Travis: Festivus!
Orion: Festivus.
Marisha: There was something I should probably tell you. In this area of land, in Vasselheim, on this continent, somewhere, I'm not sure where, resides the Fire Ashari. Somewhere in the town of Pyrah.
Laura: What's that?
Ashley: Ooh.
Laura: What are Fire Ashari?
Marisha: Well, they're my sister tribe. They're a part of my sister tribe. I come from the Air Ashari.
Laura: Right.
Travis: Uh-huh.
Marisha: Yeah, from Zephra.
Ashley: (whispers) Fire Ashari?
Laura: So they-- oh.
Marisha: Yeah, so there are Fire Ashari. So the point behind the Ashari-- I'm not sure I have expressed this to you all in the past few months. The point of our tribe is we sought out the weakest points where the elemental planes start to bleed with our plane of existence, and these planes need to be protected, so our people have sought them all out in order to make haven there and be the protectors that we were all born to be. And as part of my Aramente, I have to seek out each of the headmasters and prove myself a worthy leader.
Travis: Ooh.
Marisha: Which makes me really nervous.
Laura: We've got your back, Keyleth.
Ashley: Oh, you'll do it. You'll totally do it.
Travis: Yeah. Yeah, we can burn shit for days.
Marisha: So I just thought, you know, maybe after we handle the Horn, maybe we can pop in. You know, since we're here.
Laura: Totally. You know, if you want to, Keyleth, when we go, we'll all follow your orders and make it seem like you're an extraordinary leader of us.
Travis: Ooh, yeah.
Marisha: Oh. That could be good. Oh, that sounds fun!
Orion: Oh. Good idea, yes. Of course, I will be your mage guard.
Travis: Do they make you burn things as a display of your abilities?
Marisha: Well, they kind of teach me new things.
Laura: Ooh!
Marisha: They kind of instill me with their knowledge.
Laura: So the tornado thing. You could be like a fire tornado?
Marisha: I could. I know!
Travis: Shut up!
Marisha: I'm so excited! But yes. Super nervous, because social skills aren't my strongest suit.
Laura: We've noticed.
Travis: You're a natural. You're great.
Laura: You're great, though.
Marisha: Oh, you guys.
Ashley: But it's very charming.
Travis: We gotta go there. It's fire everywhere!
Orion: (laughs) Oh.
Marisha: Yes. Yes.
Liam: Is everything copacetic between the different tribes?
Travis: Oh, good question.
Marisha: What? What?
Travis: Is it copacetic?
Laura: Are you guys friendly with each other?
Liam: Are they happy?
Orion: The tribes.
Marisha: Well, yes. Yeah, no, we're all happy. I mean, that's kind of the thing, where once a generation someone sets out and goes on the Aramente in order to come back a headmaster, and it's kind of like our once-a-generation check-in, if you will, to make sure everything's okay.
Travis: Exchange students.
Marisha: Unfortunately, the last person to go on the Aramente didn't come back, which happens sometimes. Yeah.
Travis: Like, didn't come back ever?
Marisha: No.
Laura: So, like, you could die?
Orion: Or maybe they got lost to the winds of the road.
Travis: Right, yeah.
Marisha: It was actually my mother.
Orion: Oh, goodness.
Laura: (gasps) What?
Travis: To which tribe?
Marisha: I-- we don't know. She left when I was a little girl, so I don't remember much. So I don't know if she's alive or dead, really, but--
Laura: Keyleth.
Travis: We did not know that.
Marisha: It's okay. It's okay.
Travis: Yeah, no bigs, right?
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: Just your mother.
Marisha: I mean, it's-- I mean. Well. It's fine. It's just. It's weird. I haven't seen her, so I don't know.
Sam: Awkward.
Marisha: I barely remember her.
Travis: Do you think there's a chance of when we visit this place, we might have to defend ourselves?
Marisha: No. No. I wouldn't think so.
Orion: Which means "of course."
Laura: It's not like your family, Grog. They're actually nice.
Marisha: Yeah, we're pretty-- we're cool.
Travis: Look, my family is nice, too. We just share love with fists.
Orion: Understandable.
Laura: That sounds wrong in so many ways.
Travis: It does, actually.
Liam: Keyleth, did your mother have to go alone, or does your tribe permit there to be help for you?
Marisha: I'm assuming it would be okay. We're pretty welcoming.
Laura: That's good.
Travis: Yeah, we should totally be there.
Laura: All right. We will go.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: And maybe ask them if they've seen your mom.
Marisha: Yeah. That'd be interesting.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: It's weird. There's this part of me in the back of my head that kind of always wonders if I'm going to run into her.
Travis: How old-- when was the last time you saw your mother, or do you even remember?
Marisha: I was five, six maybe, years old when she left.
Travis: Wow.
Marisha: So I'm the next in line.
Laura: (whispers) Wow.
Sam: This is heavy.
Travis: Yeah.
Ashley: This is very heavy.
Marisha: I'm sorry. I didn't mean to bring the mood down.
Sam: No, it's fine. It's good to know this.
Marisha: I'm just letting you know that we're going to be in that neck of the woods, so I should probably--
Laura: Stop by.
Ashley: Yes.
Marisha: -- you know, go.
Travis: Absolutely.
Laura: Give a little hello.
Matt: "Land sighted!" A voice breaks out from the side of the ship's bow.
Orion: Ooh.
Matt: You guys glance over quickly to the edge of the skyship, and you see, right over the edge of Deera, what looks to be this ominous continent slowly approaching. Through the mists, the low clouds of this area, you can make out what looks to be a fairly heavily wooded and overgrown landscape. You can see dark forest peppered with a little bit of snowfall across the top.
Laura: My kind of place.
Matt: Occasional mountaintops and peaks breaking through the canopy of the distant forest.
Laura: Look, Trinket! Home.
Matt: Trinket looms up to the side and looks a bit chilly and shakes it off. At which point, Kima comes up and joins the rest of you. Puts her elbows over and looks off wistfully for a second and goes, (sighs) "It's been some time. Welcome to Othanzia, folks. It's an interesting place."
Travis: It is, isn't it?
Laura: We'll follow your lead.
Matt: She points off, says, "This forest here we refer to as the Vesper Timberland, and it goes for miles and miles and miles before bleeding into endless tundra to the north, so let's hopefully not travel that far." (sighs) "This'll be interesting." And she turns around and heads back down into the ship. As you continue--
Laura: Good talk!
Marisha: Why did she say that? (laughs) I know!
Orion: Who was that person?
Marisha: That was so weird, right?
Orion: Everywhere we go. It's everywhere we go. Why can't people be normal?
Travis: She's warming up to me, I can feel it.
Matt: As the ship slowly begins to descend, you can see, in the distance, from one of the various mountain ranges that break past the top, there is one singular mountain spire that tends to protrude from the center of the forest, about 20 to 30 miles off the shoreline of the Ozmit Sea. Around the base of this mountain, you can see, the closer you get to it, what looks like hundreds upon hundreds of stone buildings. You can see little details along the mountainside. Countless staircases are spiraling up this mountain in different directions in a chaotic fashion. There are large structures, fortresses, built into the side of this mountain spire as you progress up the top. And this city proper, which spreads out, I'd say, about a third larger than Emon. Layers of walls and walls and walls. This is probably the most-fortified city you've seen in your existence up to this point. Slowly it begins to bring itself down towards-- and you can see, as you get closer to the city, the walls vary in color and material. Some look recently built. Some look like they'd been constructed in the past 50 to 60 years or so from fine, smooth stone, using modern architectural techniques. Some walls look extremely ancient, partially crumbled and having to be refortified. You also notice the top of these walls are completely covered with what looks like these strange dragon-headed ballistae. These defense ballistae that are along every single row of walls. This is a city that is meant to withstand--
Marisha: A siege.
Matt: -- any sort of a siege or onslaught.
Laura: Does it look like it's suffered a lot of sieges? I mean, is there battle damage to the--
Matt: It's hard to tell from this distance. You're just starting to pick up details as the ship slowly descends into the city of Vasselheim proper. But from what you can tell, there are scars across some of the larger buildings. Some of the walls look like they have sections that have been knocked down and then rebuilt and then knocked down and then rebuilt. This is a very, very old, old city. Slowly, the ship descends towards what looks like a smoothed-out, flattened platform on top of some mill of some kind. It doesn't look like it's built for skyship purposes, more than it's been haphazardly put together to receive a skyship should it come to the city. But it looks like that type of travel doesn't come to this area too often. At this point in time, you can see now, the crew is gathering their ropes, they're getting ready to go ahead and lower it down. Captain Damon is slowly steering and shouting directions back and forth to his deckhands. The Scalebearers and Kima come up to the top of the ship, carrying the box that contains the Horn of Orcus, as well. As the ship slowly makes its way to dock on the top of this mill, Kima, who has all of her materials over her shoulder, says, "All right, so. It's everyone's first time here in the city?"
Sam: Yes.
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Yeah, well. Keyleth?
Orion: I've never been here.
Marisha: No.
Sam: Okay. Yes.
Matt: "All right."
Orion: And there's enough in the interim for a short rest from us getting from there to the last day to where we're at?
Matt: Yeah, yeah.
Travis: A day's rest? All right.
Orion: Okay, cool. Awesome.
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Tiberius, you ever been here?
Orion: No. (laughter)
Laura: Is it cold in the city?
Matt: It's pretty chilly as you come down. I mean, you wear furs naturally in cold environments, but this is-- the temperature's to the point where you may have to consider getting a little bit of warmer clothing if you travel too far outside of the city.
Travis: How do goliaths do? Not wearing much.
Laura: I have a lot of winter cloaks already in my--
Sam: We have some fancy cloaks, too, don't we?
Laura: Well, those are fancy clothes.
Sam: Oh.
Laura: But I've got winter coats that I bought for the group a long time ago.
Sam: All right. Pass them out.
Laura: All right.
Matt: So she pulls out the really nice, thick--
Marisha: Oh, that's right. We went shopping.
Laura: Remember?
Marisha: I remember.
Ashley: Oh, we went shopping.
Travis: We have three other fancy robes.
Ashley: We had a girl shop day.
Marisha: Yep.
Sam: A fancy. I want a fancy robe.
Travis: You do? It's huge on you. You want it anyway.
Orion: I'd have to take off my cloak, though, to wear that, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Orion: I won't wear one. I keep my cloak on.
Travis: I give you a colorful one.
Sam: I'll gird it.
Matt: We'll say you could probably put it over. It will just look a little chunky.
Orion: Okay.
Sam: I'm going to take a large fancy robe and try to tie it up-- to gird it so that it looks okay.
Laura: He wants a fancy robe, not a fur.
Travis: Be aware, we only have two left.
Sam: I'm going to gird my loins.
Matt: And you gird them well. You look like the tiniest Turkish wrestler you've ever seen.
Laura: Oh. (laughter)
Matt: It's kind of adorable.
Sam: Also, I'm going to cast Lightning Bolt into the Ioun Stone.
Orion: Yay.
Matt: Okay. So mark that down, you have a third-level Lightning Bolt saved. You still used the spell slot, but after you rest, it'll be safe inside there. Which is an interesting experience, you see him do this arcane finger wiggle in the air, and then he releases what is a burst of electrical energy that immediately funnels itself and vanishes into the stone, which is now humming with this low pulsing glow of greenish-blue light.
Sam: (whispers) Pike, are you watching this?
Ashley: Wow, and you're--
Laura: It's green? It's a green-- wait, is it like a diamond shape?
Sam: I don't know.
Laura: It's like a Sim!
Marisha: Oh, it's like a Sims thing.
Orion: It's like a little--
Laura: As long as it's green, you're happy, Scanlan!
Orion: But I believe it's white, right? It's a white stone?
Matt: It is a white stone, but the energy glowing off it is greenish in color.
Orion: Ah, there you go.
Marisha: He's happy.
Ashley: And you're so well-girded.
Sam: I'm girded and I've got a shiny head.
Matt: Eventually the ship comes to a stop. You feel a little bit of a lurching sensation as the ship suddenly halts its advancing. All the ropes get dropped off the sides. They start bringing what looks to be some sort of a haphazard crane also, in preparation for Trinket to be lowered off the ship. You can see, there's a look of-- I can't describe it better than anxiousness to Kima. She says, "If you have any questions about the city, just speak up and I'll do my best."
Laura: Where do we take the Horn?
Sam: (laughs) That's a good question. (laughter)
Matt: "I believe--" And she looks over the edge of the ship. "I believe our escorts will be happy to guide us."
Laura: Our escorts?
Liam: I'd like to do an insight check before we hustle off.
Matt: On?
Travis: Kima.
Liam: Kima.
Matt: Go for it.
Orion: I would like to look for any places-- oh, sorry.
Liam: I rolled an 18.
Matt: Okay, and what are you trying to glean off of her?
Liam: Why does she seem anxious? Does she seem different? Does her demeanor seem different, or does she just seem in a hurry?
Matt: You can probably take it as a little bit of being in a hurry, but you also get the feeling like-- there's a nervousness to her that stems-- it's hard to really tell where it comes from, but there is a nervousness to her.
Laura: Kima, when was the last time you were with your Order?
Matt: "Proper? That would be eight years."
Laura: Oh.
Orion: That's a long time to be out of Order.
Matt: "Of which-- we are about to meet them."
Orion: Sorry.
Sam: High five.
Laura: Do you get along well with them?
Matt: "Yes. Yes. They're just, well." (laughs) "You'll see." And she leaps over the side of the ship, grabbing the rope, and lowers herself down, as do the rest of the-- the two Scalebearers come down in tandem, clutching the chain on the sides of the box, bringing it down almost like a big Jacob's ladder.
Travis: (quietly) I love you.
Matt: Eventually, you all make your way onto the platform, and they're waiting for you. You see there's a cluster of well-armored men and women, wearing semi-matching gray tabards over patchwork and plated armor. They look like a really rough-and-tumble militia, but they all stand firm and as you guys walk up, they give a nod of respect and understanding. Amongst them, you see one gentleman, an elderly gentleman with no hair, completely bald, thick spectacles on the tip of his nose, wearing the same silver and blue robes as the envoys that met you at the Council of Tal'Dorei, the ones that are carrying the box. As you all approach, Kima steps out ahead and says, "Yonn. It's been a while."
Sam: Yonn.
Matt: The old man steps forward. "It has been, indeed, Kima. It has, indeed. And that's Scalebearer Yonn, if you don't mind--"
Travis: Scalebearer.
Matt: "I would prefer in mixed company the proper niceties of our presentation."
Laura: Oh, we're no proper company. It's all right.
Matt: "Hm. And you are?"
Sam: We are--
Orion: I'm Tiberius Stormwind, and we are Vox Machina. Everybody has names, too.
Laura: Hmm.
Ashley: I'm Pike.
Marisha: Keyleth.
Sam: I'm Ioun Stone-bearer Scanlan. (laughter)
Matt: He cocks his head curiously.
Sam: You can call me Kingslayer. I also did that.
Matt: "Very well." Percy introduces himself, as well.
Travis: I have a beard. (laughter)
Matt: He gives you the most curious look of all, which is hard to follow off of Scanlan over here. "And I'm to understand these are the bearers of the artifact?" Kima gives a nod. "Yes, and I think we should be on our way quickly." "Yes, yes, of course. Please. These are our escorts. Follow suit. We will bring you onward to the Platinum Sanctuary proper to dispose of this thing."
Sam: How far is the Platinum Sanctuary?
Matt: "No more than a 25-minute walk."
Laura: Oh.
Sam: Oh.
Ashley: May I insight-check Yonn?
Matt: You may.
Liam: Yes, please.
Marisha: Oh, so--
Orion: I'm going to look for any temples that might have a sigil inside while we're going through the town.
Matt: All right. Do you want to ask around about that?
Orion: I'll ask the Yonn guy.
Matt: Okay. Well, first off, you finish your insight check. What did you roll?
Ashley: What did you get, Liam?
Liam: 13.
Ashley: Okay. I got 15.
Matt: Okay. He seems stuffy. He seems definitely dedicated to whatever his intent is, but there doesn't seem to be anything deceptive in his speech.
Marisha: So am I correct to assume our plan is that we're going to march this Horn through the town? Until we get to the temple?
Laura: Well, nobody knows what it is.
Orion: Right.
Sam: Well, unless someone--
Laura: So we'll just be aware there's a huge envoy.
Marisha: I mean, we can only assume-- Yonn?
Matt: "Yes?"
Marisha: How many people in this city are aware of this Horn being brought here?
Matt: "Well, up until now, other than myself, you travelers, and the Highbearer Vord himself, no one else."
Orion: Hm.
Marisha: Highbearer Vor-- his name is Vord?
Matt: "Vord. The Highbearer of the Platinum Dragon."
Laura: What kind of man is he?
Matt: You hear when he mentions Vord, Kima twitches a little bit, and you remember Kima's official title is Lady Kima of Vord.
Laura: Hm.
Orion: Hm.
Sam: Her ex?
Travis: Is that her pops? Her pops?
Orion: Vonn. Yonn?
Matt: "Scalebearer Yonn, yes."
Orion: Oh, Scalebearer Yonn, that's a fun name. (clears throat) As we travel through town, if you could point me to any place that would have a sigil of arcane-ness--
Sam: Arcane-iosity is what he's trying to say.
Matt: "There are none."
Orion: Oh.
Matt: "This city, arcane magic for the most part, is not allowed within consistent practice. This is a divine, a holy place."
Orion: Ah.
Matt: "And the arcane tends to, ah. How do you say, when unwatched, corrupt and destroy from the inside. "
Liam: Oh shit, Tiberius.
Orion: No, I'm fine! He's talking about other people.
Travis: You don't have any arcane abilities anyway, right?
Orion: Oh of course I do, I'm a sorcerer.
Laura: No no no, right?
Sam: Ix-nay.
Travis: Wink wink, nudge nudge.
Orion: No, no, I think he-- sure.
Matt: "This here in Vasselheim, the cradle of faith, the Dawn City, of once all civilization and current faith once stemmed from. There is no way in but by foot. It is a pilgrimage, a journey for each to come here, and those that stay, stay of their own will and divine right." And as he refers to the guards, each guard you see now has around their neck a very visibly shown holy symbol of some kind of deity. Most seem to fall--
Marisha: We've basically walked into the Crucible.
Orion: It's fine.
Matt: -- into the realm of Arathis, Avandra, Melora, and a couple with Bahamut. None of--
Ashley: None of Sarenrae.
Matt: None of Sarenrae.
Travis: Or as Liam calls it, Sa-REN-rae.
Laura: The best one?
Ashley: The best, the best one.
Liam: Sa-REN-rae! (laughter)
Ashley: Sarenrae!
Orion: I'm going to take it you don't see very many dragonborn in these parts.
Matt: "No, and frankly you're making me a bit nervous."
Orion: Oh.
Matt: "However, as we ourselves are followers of the Platinum Dragon, we understand that it is dragonkind at the heart of it, the metallics, that bring life and civilization and order to this world."
Orion: Yes.
Matt: "Your color I find off-putting."
Orion: It's--
Laura: I've always noticed a fine metallic sheen coming from your red scales.
Orion: No, I'm of the chromatic nature, I'm a bit of an anomaly in my family, they're all of the metallic brand, I assure you. The Stormwind name runs true and wide throughout Draconia, but--
Matt: "I have heard of the Stormwinds, yes."
Orion: I cast Alter Self real quick and I turn myself into, I believe, gold. Because that's the red-- equivalent of red. On the metallic scale.
Matt: Okay. He gives you a curious look and goes--
Orion: I think that would be better for everyone involved.
Matt: "I would be mindful to not do such things so openly in public in the future."
Orion: Oh, sorry.
Matt: "Ahem." And he kind of adjusts his robe. "This way please, follow me." And Scalebearer Yonn leads you--
Laura: You look very nice, Tiberius.
Ashley: You look really great in gold.
Orion: Thank you, thank you.
Marisha: So wait, hang on, hang on, hang on.
Travis: What?
Marisha: Before we move on-- we're about to leave, I'm assuming?
Matt: You're stepping off the platform onto a staircase that leads off of the top of the mill.
Marisha: Should a few of us kind of like flank around and--
Laura: Definitely, we should all kind of surround the box, sure.
Travis: Like rooftops and shit.
Marisha: Rooftop shit, yeah.
Laura: Oh.
Travis: I like it.
Marisha: I can go eagle form and have aerial support.
Travis: I love it.
Laura: I can stick to the rooftops, I guess, try to follow along.
Travis: Overwatch.
Marisha: Overwatch. What's that? Yeah.
Laura: I'll snick to the rooftops and try to follow along, sniper eye.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Yeah, you two up top.
Ashley: I'll just stay right on the path.
Travis: Yep, you and me.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Smash hands.
Matt: All right, so.
Orion: I'll take the six.
Matt: Okay. As you--
Liam: I'm gonna stay with it but try to blend in with the crowd.
Matt: All right, all right. Go ahead and make a stealth check.
Liam: Yes.
Travis: Scanlan?
Liam: 23 for stealth.
Matt: All right, ah, if you wouldn't mind, Vex, making a stealth check as well?
Laura: Oh.
Travis: Overwatch.
Matt: Just to keep your rooftop activity inconspicuous.
Laura: Not disturbing.
Travis: We have a UAV.
Laura: Oh, well I rolled a one. So that's lovely.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Are you flying up above?
Marisha: Yeah, I'm going eagle.
Travis: Don't you have advantage?
Laura: Do I have advantage in-- no.
Orion: And I'm taking up the rear, following behind.
Matt: No. Not in this terrain, unfortunately.
Ashley: But there are forests here.
Laura: But with the forests I'd be amazing.
Liam: I do applaud your honesty, though, sister.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: So as you loudly clomp up and begin rooftop-hopping, a few individuals in the city kind of take notice and they point up, which by the way--
Laura: I wink at them as I'm climbing up.
Matt: Ah, the classic Vex wink. All right, so. Just you guys-- kind of atmosphere, as you step down the staircase and get to the main city street proper, the first thing you notice, the roads themselves are not cobblestone, are not brick, they are mud. They are thick, recently sleeted mud. You hear the clomping of horse hooves as carts are pulled through and each one is a sickly (squelch) sound as each footstep makes it through. The people of this city are a very hardened and rugged folk. Most clothing is swathed in furs and thick leathers, armor is patchwork in itself, most of the men grow coarse facial hair and the women themselves, their hair is wild and their appearance very stoic and grizzled. The landscape of Vasselheim-- oh, thank you kindly. Delivery of our chicken.
Marisha: Chicken through the magic door.
Matt: The people who live here, you gather, quickly walking through-- and Kima gives you a bit of insight as well-- live here not because it's easy to live, not because there's many comforts, it's a very harsh living in the city of Vasselheim. But the city is also currently the oldest known bastion of civilization in the world. As far as it's understood, most human civilization, and a lot of humans believe pre-elf and pre-dwarf, although the dwarves and elves very staunchly disagree, all stemmed from this city, which is believed to be tens of thousands of years old. They have uncovered the single oldest temples to the main deities of good and neutrality within this city, and as such it is considered the holiest place in the modern world, which is why it has been through many, many wars and has seen much warfare and strife and difficulty. And those that live here live here because they feel that they can fight against this, and they actually call it a privilege to exist in this harsh landscape as devotion to their respective deities. Also, because it is such a holy place, this is why the arcane is considered, for the most part, profane in public and very carefully controlled otherwise.
Travis: So we gotta be sneaky with that.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: The buildings look old--
Travis: So I'll put my spells in my back pocket for now.
Matt: The buildings range from old to newer stone, warped wood from just the weather itself. You can see a lot of the wood has a kind of mossy texture to it just from the general overgrowth that tends to take the city. It's not kept for beauty, it's kept for function. There's scars across most of the buildings where you can see warfare has bled into the city, and there are markings and various points of ancient damage and certain structures that have not been rebuilt, that have just been left in ruin where they stand, because they have not yet found somebody or a purpose to be restructured. It's a very different landscape than what you're used to, and the walk itself is a very solemn, quiet walk through the city. The folks that do take notice just kind of give a nod of acknowledgement or a gruff grunt as they pass by. There doesn't seem to be a definite interest in your travel, this isn't a special occasion. It seems like travelers and strange occurrences are not that unnatural in this city.
Marisha: Okay. So it's like New York.
Matt: You could say that, yeah. It's a very ancient New York.
Sam: And we're carrying a large ark, or a box of some sort?
Matt: You are carrying the platinum box that the Horn was kept in.
Sam: How big is it?
Matt: It's approximately like a foot and a half, or two feet by two feet.
Ashley: Oh, Taliesin's here.
Laura: Oh!
Travis: Taliesin's outside.
Sam: And it's platinum? It's just a platinum box?
Matt: Yes, it is made of like solid platinum and silver with a series of very, very intricate scrolling and engravings on it.
Marisha: Is it sticking out like a sore thumb?
Laura: There were some sapphires in there, too, some blue sapphires, I remember.
Matt: Yes, yes.
Marisha: Is it sticking out like a sore thumb?
Matt: Best you can tell, there are people taking notice of it, but none that like stop and gawk, they just kind of, "huh." Keep walking.
Marisha: Damn, maybe we should've thrown a blanket or something over it.
Matt: You could if you want to, now.
Travis: Can we, though?
Marisha: Burlap sack or something? Anybody?
Matt: The guards still flanking you guys, surrounding this ensemble as it presses towards the base of the mountain. You make your way towards the edge of the mountain, or where the mountain begins at the bottom of the floor, and you can see dozens of staircases ascending the outskirts of this giant pointed cragless spire that just sticks up into, actually, the clouds cut off the top of it. It's reminiscent of Gatshadow, the mountain outside of Westruun that you guys traveled to long ago.
Travis: Right.
Matt: But even larger. You continue up this staircase, and the stonework itself is a little lopsided and awkward, and with each step sometimes you have to kinda catch yourself, especially as the wind begins to pick up the higher up the mountain you go, and it takes about 15 to 20 minutes to ascend this staircase. Your legs begin to grow a little sore, until eventually you reach the base of what you can only imagine is the Platinum Sanctuary. You see before you, built into the side of the rock of this mountain, a grand stone fortress that looks older than time in itself. You can see the elements have weathered to the point where even the solid points and how the stonework was meant to be an edge has been rounded and smoothed down. There are a series of silver markings across the outskirts of it, which Tiberius, you recognize as Draconic.
Orion: Look, Percy, it's Draconic.
Taliesin: Oh, so it is. (laughter)
Matt: Certain words in Draconic--
Marisha: Percy, you've been so quiet here lately.
Taliesin: I don't want to talk about it.
Matt: You see phrases emblazoned on the side of this giant temple that say things like "honor, justice." Various, very old base Draconic stuff. The current language is a more refined version. This is a very, very ancient basis of that language.
Orion: See that, Scanlan? That says something like Apollo Justice something.
Sam: It's Phoenix something.
Orion: It's maybe the rise of the justice of the phoenix.
Sam: Nah, I don't know.
Orion: It's a lot of things.
Travis: Dawn of justice--
Matt: On the top of this fortress, you see three constructs that don't match the stone structure. These may have been constructed or built many years later and have been added onto the temple. But three ivory and silver spires, towers that ascend from the top of the fortress itself, almost parallel to the very steep mountainside that this fortress is built into. You come to the front doors of this structure. Two very, very large gray stone doors with almost what looks like white marbling through them, and you can see, mostly worn away but still barely visible, the symbol of a shield with a dragon head emblazoned on the front of it, the symbol of Bahamut. As the Scalebearer-- yes, that there-- as the Scalebearers approach the front, the doors, on their own, and open to the interior, the grinding sound of stone across the marble flooring of the fortress proper. You can see the interior. Did you have a question?
Marisha: Can I see inside the temple? Or are the temples pretty enclosed?
Matt: You can see now as the doors begin to open.
Marisha: Well, I was an eagle flying overhead.
Matt: Oh, yes! You--
Marisha: And I was gonna do a perception check to see if I noticed, like kinda do a loop of the temple.
Matt: Go for it.
Sam: So, I'm an eagle.
Marisha: So I'm an eagle right now, so.
Taliesin: You're such an eagle. Oh my god.
Laura: I very, very poorly fall off of the roof and clamber down.
Marisha: 20 total.
Matt: Best you can tell, there are for the makeshift guards in the city-- which, you've heard them referred to as Bastions, they're all volunteers, and actually from what you gather here, probably a quarter of the populace are Bastions. So they have a very, very heavy civilian-based militia that guards this city.
Sam: Are those the guys who were with us, the envoys?
Matt: Yes. No, no, not the envoys, the envoys' come from the temple of Bahamut, they have the blue and silver robes. You see, they're just wearing makeshift patchwork armor, whatever that could be scavenged or constructed to outfit a militia, essentially.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: You see them going up and down every which staircase, just doing various passes and patrolwork. Some of them have spyglasses and you see them looking off in the distance, and as you're getting higher up the mountain, too, you look out about, and you can see the entire forest around you. Very thick, ominous, and you swear every now and then you can see some trees move suddenly and heavily before coming to rest in the distance.
Marisha: I'm gonna go check that out first.
Matt: The rest of you are entering the temple. Keyleth is not there.
Orion: Is it lit in there?
Matt: The doors close behind you.
Sam: Hope Keyleth is okay.
Laura: Keyleth--
Marisha: (eagle noises)
Liam: I don't think that I was with the group, I think I was back with the crowd--
Laura: No, you--
Sam: Great.
Liam: -- so I see the eagle fly off and I'm just gonna follow after her.
Laura: What?
Matt: The eagle flies out of the city.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: You're gonna leave the city, brother?
Liam: No.
Orion: You're leaving?
Marisha: Gonna see if I can figure out what's making the trees move.
Liam: Now that I understand the--
Laura: Come on in the temple.
Liam: But do I still get shut in my face? So.
Marisha: I'm flying! I'm fine.
Liam: It's a big solid building, doors are shut, that's it?
Matt: Yeah, I mean, the temple, would you like to enter the temple with the rest of the group?
Laura: Yeah, you would.
Ashley: Yeah, do it.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: So just as the doors are closing, you rush out of your subtle following pattern and, wait, and put your hands up and manage to make your way into the temple right before the doors close, catching up with the rest of the group. Keyleth, make a perception check.
Marisha: I have advantage because I'm an eagle. Ooh, natural 20!
Sam: Nice!
Travis: Nice!
Taliesin: On the shiny die.
Matt: All right.
Orion: It is on the shiny die.
Matt: It's hard to see much of anything because the canopy of this forest is so dense and so thick, and the snowfall itself, which is getting stronger through the air, and is kind of obscuring some of your vision, but you glance down and you see another set of trees shift suddenly about a quarter-mile away from the city's walls. And you can see on the edge of the city wall a number of guards are beginning to swarm up to the ballista and starting to load them and prepare them. You glance down, and all you see are something fast-moving beneath the canopy, something large. Something you can swear you see it looks serpentine-like. But multiple serpentine-like bodies or forms. And then it's gone in a second.
Laura: Hydra! You think it's a hydra?
Orion: I don't want it to be a hydra.
Liam: Stop gasping, I don't see shit, Laura.
Orion: Oh, that's right.
Laura: Shut up!
Matt: You see a couple ballista set loose. The bolts go flying through the air, entering the forest. You can hear a loud screeching sound, and a few dozen forests now begin to shake to the side as the creature makes its way away from the city before going still in the distance.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: You get the sensation that this is a--
Marisha: A common occurrence.
Matt: -- a common occurrence.
Marisha: Okay. Good to know. I'm going to loop back around. Is there like an open window in the temple that I can just fly through--
Orion: Ooh. Is there a super clear one that she could try to go through first?
Marisha: Be like that Windex commercial, back in the day.
Matt: The temple--
Orion: (crashing sounds) Dammit!
Matt: You make your way--
Marisha: I break my neck, I die.
Orion: No.
Matt: There are small-- they are not windows, more than they are slits for arrow defense.
Travis: Right.
Matt: You as Keyleth could squeeze through. It would be one of those things where you have to careen in, transform, and then squeeze through.
Marisha: Okay, I'll do that.
Matt: Which you do, and as you do, you come right into the face of a spear right there--
Laura: (gasps) You should have transformed into a fly.
Matt: -- as another one of the Platinum Dragon guards says, "Who goes there?"
Sam: Oh boy.
Marisha: Hi. Hi.
Matt: Another guard begins to approach from the side.
Marisha: I am with Vox Machina. I'm pretty sure they just came through the front door. It's cool. I was just doing-- just like aerial support. I'm just going to go and reconnect with my group. It's fine.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Marisha: I'm Keyleth.
Travis: (whispers) Mention the Scalebearer.
Marisha: I'm not good at this shit.
Matt: You're not there, Grog.
Marisha: What am I doing? A persuasion check?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Christ.
Orion: You're going to roll a one.
Matt: Sorry, Miss Charisma.
Marisha: Shut up.
Taliesin: Oh, wow.
Marisha: Oh, wait. I don't know why I'm rolling two.
Taliesin: That's real funny.
Marisha: Six?
Laura: Oh no!
Sam: Keyleth's dead.
Orion: (whispers) No, they'll probably just put her in prison.
Matt: The guy holding the spear to you keeps it there. The other guy walks up behind and says, "Let me see your hands."
Laura: (gasps)
Liam: Shit.
Marisha: Why?
Matt: "Let me see your hands." He takes your hands, pulls out a set of shackles--
Laura: (gasps)
Ashley: Oh no.
Matt: -- and locks them on.
Laura: This is the second time you've been arrested!
Marisha: Yeah, it is.
Matt: The guy with spear turns behind you and just holds it to your back as the gentleman who just cuffed you grabs the chain between and starts pulling you towards the main chamber.
Marisha: You know, can we just buzz by the front foyer, and then we'll find my friends, and then we'll all be like, hey, those are my-- It'll be fine.
Orion: I think that's where you're going.
Matt: He leads you down the stairway to an area where it opens up into a small courtyard, takes you to the right of the courtyard into a central chamber, where the rest of Vox Machina is currently being led.
Laura: Keyleth!
Orion: Do I see her?
Matt: Yeah, you guys all see her being led in, in cuffs, essentially.
Orion: Seriously? Again?
Travis: What did you do?
Laura: Again, Keyleth?
Orion: Your Highness, what is your problem?
Ashley: Oh. She's with us. She's with us, she was just outside, we got in before.
Travis: No, we don't know who she is.
Taliesin: Actually, can we have a few minutes to discuss this?
Marisha: Shut up, Grog!
Matt: At this point, Kima turns and says, "She's with me."
Laura: Oh.
Matt: And both the Scalebearers go, "Lady Kima, I am so sorry." And they go ahead and take the cuffs off real fast and pull the spear back and step back.
Ashley: Wow.
Laura: Yeah, you listen to Lady Kima.
Orion: The classic.
Marisha: The classic.
Orion: The classic handcuff wrist twist.
Marisha: Ouch.
Liam: Hardass. (laughter)
Marisha: Yeah, I'm with her.
Matt: They back off and bow deeply and escort themselves off, embarrassed.
Marisha: Did you guys see that?
Ashley: That was cool.
Orion: I nudge Grog.
Travis: That was cool. You were arrested.
Orion: Grog, Grog, I'm nudging you.
Travis: You hadn't done anything.
Taliesin: I knew you had it in you.
Marisha: I'm starting to feel so hardcore.
Orion: I'm just nudging you.
Travis: Oh, okay.
Orion: Because Kima did something super hot.
Taliesin: You need a tattoo.
Marisha: I do need a tattoo.
Travis: I know, I noticed. She doesn't love me, though.
Laura: She does, Grog.
Travis: No, not yet.
Matt: All right. Scalebearer Yonn continues to lead you through this main chamber. And this chamber, like I said, it's the temple. It's strange, because most temples you've seen to Bahamut or many other deities are extravagant or are, you know, built with a modern-day sense of architecture. This is a very plain, simple stone fortress. It's hard to grasp what time it was built, but just the smell itself seems very ancient. There's a scent of dust and age, and functionality to its construct. But there's still a sense of power to it. Especially you, Pike, where you're sensitive to divine energy. This whole place is humming with it. Even though it's not the kind you're used to connecting with. This is-- When they say this is a holy place, you can feel it.
Laura: Is everything okay, Pike?
Ashley: It's just-- there's a lot of holiness here. (laughter)
Orion: I would imagine.
Marisha: Oh.
Sam: On a scale from one to five, five being super holy--
Ashley: Probably six.
Sam: Whoa.
Laura: Whoa.
Marisha: (gasps)
Orion: That's extra holy.
Marisha: This temple goes to six.
Ashley: This temple, I mean this--
Orion: (laughs) This temple goes to six.
Ashley: Just this whole land in particular. I mean there's a lot, there's a lot here, but--
Orion: That is good, though.
Ashley: Yes, good.
Sam: Do you need a moment? Do you need to sit down? Do you need me to hold you?
Ashley: I think I'm okay to keep going.
Laura: All right.
Ashley: But maybe later. We'll see. If I get a little tired.
Matt: At which you feel a nudge at your side and it's an armored elbow from Kima, saying, "If you wouldn't mind holding off on the fraternizing in the temple of Bahamut, I would really appreciate it."
Marisha: Oh, that's right.
Sam: Message understood.
Matt: At which point Scalebearer Yonn is now at the second set of double doors and he presents his holy symbol above his chest, it glows a second, and what was originally just smooth stone doors, you see a divine glow and the symbol of Bahamut you saw at the front of the temple appear for a moment, and then as it vanishes the two doors open on their own into a central worship chamber. This is a much larger domed room. It looks like it goes up about 80 feet to the top of the ceiling, and the dome itself has what looks like an extremely ancient, detailed drawing, like Sistine Chapel-style, the tale of the entirety of creation. You see all the elemental planes represented in the corners, the theoretical corners, where corners would be in a domed room. You can see a crude representation of how all the planes lay over each other, you can see the Astral Plane, you can see where the Nine Hells would exist, and the Abyss itself, and in the center there's the Prime Material Plane, and across it you see a giant image of the great platinum dragon Bahamut drawn in all of his glory, currently snapping down on one of the throats of a multi-headed dragon. This other dragon, with five different heads of five different chromatic colors, and this struggle between what you know to be Bahamut and Tiamat.
Travis: Tiamat?
Matt: Tiamat.
Laura: Is that the bad one?
Matt: You gather.
Liam: That is the baddest one.
Laura: I mean, I know that because I know a lot about dragons.
Matt: Indeed.
Marisha: Whoa. Do I see or learn anything about the elemental planes that I didn't know before?
Matt: Not from the artwork. It's very pretty.
Marisha: Ah, so pretty.
Orion: I take it all in and I'm reminded of one of the museums at home.
Matt: And actually, you've seen this art piece in a book. It's been a long time, but you know that this has been studied before and exists somewhere in Draconia, the tome that talks about this exact temple.
Travis: A book?
Marisha: We just made cave drawings, I don't--
Sam: That's those square things.
Orion: The square things with all the paper leaves in them and squiggles.
Travis: Right.
Laura: Is Tiamat still alive? Is he still around?
Orion: I read a lot of those. Can't put my finger on it.
Matt: At which point both Yonn and Kima and the Scalebearers kind of turn to you with a look of-- kind of understanding that you don't quite know, but also the fear and the knowledge that-- they don't say anything, they just give you a look that says, yes, very much so.
Laura: Oh. I mean. (nervous laugh) Tiamat's still around, huh?
Orion: Unfortunately, yes.
Matt: They continue walking.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: Now, the floor of this chamber, which is a very simple stone, you can see there are small sculptures, each one representing some sort of a humanoid entity dressed in similar robes to the other envoys and members of this temple that you've encountered thus far. Some of them are in full armor, some are wearing just robes, and they're very, very old. Some of them seem a little more recent, and you gather these each have some sort of cultural or religious significance to this temple. However, one of these is not a statue. In the center of this worship chamber, which is strangely, eerily quiet, there is one humanoid that turns to the rest of you. What you see before you is a slender, elven male draped in long, white robes that drag a few feet behind his form across the ground. He has jet-- not jet, stark-white hair that is slicked back against his head, no facial hair, frail but very handsome features. Elves, when they age, they age very gracefully--
Laura: Yeah we do.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: -- and from the look of most elves you've seen, this is a very old elf that has aged very gracefully. He turns to the rest of you and you see across his neck a very, very well-crafted, intricate series of draconic symbols that finishes with a giant emblem of Bahamut himself. His voice rings out and echoes throughout the hallway as you approach, each footstep echoing as you get closer. "Welcome, everyone, to the Platinum Sanctuary. I am called Highbearer Vord."
Laura: Oh, right.
Matt: "Keeper of this most holy of places. I received word from a disciple of mine--" At which Kima has now stepped forward, and bows, kneels before him and says, "Your holiness." At which he looks down with a smile. "Ah, Kima. I am pleased to see you. It has been a long time, my disciple." He looks up to the rest of the group. "I understand you carry something of terrible omen. Let us discuss how to be rid of it. Please. Present the container."
Laura: Right here?
Matt: The Scalebearers step forward and set the container on the ground. They go to reach for it and he goes, "No no no. Do not open it." And he kind of takes a second and holds his symbol to his chest and closes his eyes, and you can see this kind of divine glow pulse off of him for a second.
Marisha: Kima, what's happening?
Matt: She goes, "Shh, shh."
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: The box begins to pulse with the divine light as well, and then suddenly vanishes and he kind of (gasps) catches his breath. "It is as you said. This must be sealed immediately."
Orion: Well, yes.
Marisha: Yeah-huh. We could have just told you that.
Matt: He gives a look to the rest of the group here, and you can see there's a noticeable bead of sweat he kind of wipes off his forehead. "I just needed to confirm that this was not some haphazardly constructed fake or some other artifact mistaken for such a horn, but we indeed have within our presence one of the Horns of Orcus, and this does not bode well."
Laura: (whistles)
Matt: "Thankfully--"
Laura: Are you guys-- oh, sorry.
Matt: "No, please. What do you want to say?"
Laura: I was just wondering. You've had one of these before, yes?
Matt: "No, but we know that these exist. A few of us do; the knowledge itself has been lost to time intentionally. It was brought to my attention, and through discussions with the Council that sent you on this journey, that this would be the safest place to seal such an artifact, and amongst all our other options, as of this time, I see no other choice. So. What's been proposed. Allow me to explain to you the plan. One of our most divine relics of our most beloved protector Bahamut was kept deep beneath this temple, within the mountain we rest against. The Star of Exaltation, a crystal born from the tear Bahamut shed for the sacrifices his first devoted made in the Great War of the Beginnings, the Dawn War. This item was unfortunately lost nearly 300 years ago, giving the last of its power to protect this very Vasselheim. The intervention it brought from our great deity expended and left the artifact destroyed. Since the chamber that held this Star, a blessed and ever-watched nexus beneath the gaze of the Great Platinum Dragon Himself, has gone empty, we've tended to it. We've kept it fairly well-watched and in the state it was originally constructed for. And we think no greater location to seal such a deeply-rooted evil exists within our spheres of influence or any other. Unfortunately, the last time the chamber was cleansed and prepared was some 15 years ago. Our curate tasked one of our own Scalebearers--" And he looks over towards Yonn, who sheepishly backs away. "-- was tasked with preparing it for your arrival, and the artifact's, and it was found that the lower chambers have been infested with some manner of foul subterranean spider creature."
Marisha: Oh, man.
Matt: "Our Scalebearer fled." At which point Yonn leaves the entire conversation and exits the room.
Ashley: (quietly) Excuse me.
Sam: Yonn.
Matt: You hear Kima kind of give a spit in his direction.
Matt: "But not before initiating the vault's defenses." (sighs) "So thus, I ask you to complete your journey into the Hall of the Exalt below, clear out these meager beasts, and guide your reliquary into the vault chamber to seal it for good."
Orion: Will we have to contend with the defense systems as well?
Matt: "Not all of them, but apparently in his haste to escape and defend himself, he set a few of them to aid his escape."
Laura: Great. (shouts) Good job, Yonn!
Marisha: Thanks, Yonn.
Matt: You hear no response other than the pitter-patter of steps.
Sam: Why does he still work here?
Travis: (laughs) Right?
Orion: (laughs) Very good question.
Taliesin: Would you like to speak to his manager?
Sam: Does he have tenure or something? Is it a union thing?
Matt: "He's been with us for many, many years, and he has great heart and devotion. Though addled may be his mind, he does bring much to the temple."
Marisha: He has seniority.
Sam: All right.
Marisha: So wait, you said you lost the Crystal of Exaltation during the War of--
Matt: "It was destroyed during a siege of the city."
Marisha: During the War of what? Beginnings?
Matt: "The War of the Beginnings."
Marisha: The War of the Beginnings.
Taliesin: That was close.
Marisha: And how long ago was this War of the Beginnings?
Matt: "Well that, oh, I'm sorry. It was created in the War of the Beginnings."
Marisha: It was created then?
Matt: "It was lost in a battle, a siege of the city of Vasselheim 300 years ago."
Laura: 300 years?
Marisha: Called what? During what war?
Taliesin: The Siege of the Metal Champions.
Matt: "That had no particular name."
Marisha: Oh.
Laura: Oh.
Marisha: Just a siege.
Laura: It was just a thing?
Matt: "It was one of the sieges and there was--"
Sam: The Battle Where the Thing Was Lost.
Matt: Yes. There it is.
Orion: Right. (laughter)
Liam: Vord. Hi. Question, please. We'll clear out your basement, that's not a problem. I'd like to understand how you plan to protect this horn, how you plan to keep it out of the hands of entities who would use it for ill--
Laura: That big scary creature living out in the woods. Sorry, brother.
Liam: Then how-- that's fine.
Matt: He glances towards you and says, "Oh, that is but one of many."
Laura: Huh.
Matt: "Let it be known that this temple is extremely well-guarded. It is continuously under the gaze of our patron deity and while some of the defenses have been put in place for your arrival, if the entirety of the vault is triggered, there is nothing that will make its way there unannounced."
Travis: Good sell.
Sam: Are we to carry the box down as we journey into the dungeons below, or are we to leave it here while we go clear out the basement?
Matt: "The Scalebearers will bring it with you."
Sam: Okay.
Matt: "Keep them safe."
Sam: Keep them safe? Oh. All right. We've got enough to worry about keeping ourselves safe.
Marisha: So just to get one thing clear, and I mean no (clears throat) disrespect, but how was the crystal lost 300 years ago, if it was in this chamber? So this chamber has been broken into before?
Matt: "We can enter the chamber under very specific circumstances. We, at the time, requested the use of the Star of Exaltation as a divine focus--"
Marisha: Oh.
Matt: "-- a ritual that required the intervention of Bahamut to keep the city safe."
Marisha: Oh, so someone brought it out and then was clumsy and lost it.
Laura: And then it was lost.
Sam: And you know what--
Matt: "It wasn't clumsy and lost. It was used as a focus in the ritual."
Marisha: Oh.
Matt: "It was by the will of Bahamut Himself that the Star no longer was required to exist on this plane."
Orion: She gets it. She gets it.
Matt: "It served its purpose."
Marisha: So it was destroyed.
Laura: Lost, as in--
Orion: Like not around.
Marisha: You should change your verbage here.
Taliesin: Charisma of ten, ladies and gentlemen. Charisma of ten.
Laura: While everybody's been talking, can I have used my Primeval Awareness to see within six miles if there's any dragons around us?
Sam: (sings) Primeval Awareness, yeah.
Matt: So you take a moment and kind of zone out for a second. You do not sense any dragons in the immediate vicinity of the six-mile radius of the city, no.
Laura: Oh, okay. All right. That's all I wanted to know.
Sam: (sings) Primeval Awareness, over.
Travis: Can we drop off this box, or what? I want to go see the fire dancers.
Sam: Yeah, let's go.
Laura: No, we need to go-- we also need to-- are we going to do that now?
Sam: Let's just go.
Laura: Go clear out the basement?
Sam: Yeah, it's the morning, still. Okay? Let's go.
Orion: Are we all potioned up, are we all--
Marisha: Yeah, we're good.
Ashley: We're all healed.
Orion: We're good?
Laura: Let's clear out the basement.
Travis: There's nothing down there, right?
Laura: Yeah? I mean, you want us to do it now, yeah?
Taliesin: I'm not-- I haven't been paying attention.
Matt: "Lest this artifact be left longer in the open, which I would not be comfortable with."
Laura: No, neither would I.
Matt: "I would prefer this be taken care of immediately."
Travis: Yeah, we'll do it now.
Sam: Let's go do it.
Taliesin: We've got a bear.
Laura: I mean, obviously we want the Horn taken care of, but--
Travis: Here we go.
Laura: -- you know, we're taking care of a problem for you, too.
Sam: Oh, here it goes.
Travis: Here it comes.
Sam: Here it goes.
Ashley: Get it, girl.
Travis: Son of a bitch.
Ashley: Get it, girl. Get it.
Liam: The holiest place on the map.
Ashley: Yeah. (laughs)
Laura: The holiest place?
Sam: Haggle with the pope.
Taliesin: Shaking down the pope.
Matt: "You want a monetary reward--"
Laura: I was just wondering.
Matt: "-- for your aid."
Laura: I'm not asking.
Matt: "The temple can provide a sum of three thousand gold pieces."
Laura: Per party member, yes?
Matt: "Entirely. Three thousand gold pieces for your trouble on this journey." At which Kima steps forward and says, "Highbearer, we do not need to take money from--"
Laura: We don't want money, of course not. I mean, I--
Sam: But think of the good we could do with that money, giving alms to the poor back home where we are.
Laura: Yes, spreading the word of Bahamut where we go.
Ashley: Are we going to return for it?
Sam: We do a lot of charity work and it would be well-received back home. (under his breath) In our Keep.
Matt: You make a persuasion roll. You make a deception roll.
Sam: Deception?
Laura: It's not a deception, we really will--
Travis: No, no. Only one of you.
Matt: (laughs) No, he won't.
Taliesin: The ladies of the evening really, really do need the money, apparently.
Marisha: (laughs) No, he won't.
Travis: What did you roll, Sam?
Sam: A 30.
Orion: (laughs)
Laura: Oh. That's really good because I rolled a 19. Wait!
Marisha: A 30?
Ashley: No, you didn't.
Laura: Yeah, I did.
Liam: Three-zero?
Sam: Three-zero! I have a +13 for deception. (laughs)
Travis: Really? (laughter)
Taliesin: That explains so much.
Travis: We've got to get you deceiving more.
Marisha: (laughs) We've got to get you deceiving more.
Travis: Oh my god.
Marisha: You should lie more. It's good.
Taliesin: Lie to me, Pinocchio. Lie to me.
Matt: "Three thousand gold, at your disposal, to bring about and to share in the prosperity of your people back home."
Sam: Amen. (laughter)
Matt: "Once the artifact is delivered and sealed."
Sam: From one holy man to another, I think we've struck a deal. Let's go.
Orion: Burt Reynolds, you've done it again.
Travis: Amen. (laughter)
Matt: As you all turn, Kima goes, "I'll show you to the vault room."
Laura: Are you going to come with us, Kima?
Matt: "Yes, I'm coming with you."
Laura: Oh, good.
Matt: She glances over at you. (sarcastically) "Shall we, holy man?" (laughter)
Sam: Why yes, my sister, lead the way.
Marisha: Sister. (laughter)
Matt: As you guys are walking out of the chamber, the doors close behind, she turns to you and says, "Is that why you were blessed with such a temporarily swollen appendage before?"
Sam: I don't know how the lord works, it's mysterious. (laughter)
Matt: "Let us be on our way." She kind of walks off, flustered and frustrated. You guys are led down two layers. This actual temple recedes further and further into the mountain, until you're led into what seems to almost be a storage basement. It's a very musty smell. It's old earth--
Orion: It's dank down here.
Matt: Yeah, it kind of has that moldy scent to it. There are five guards stationed in this storage vicinity, and as you approach, they all stand up. They're all still wearing ceremonial armor, two of which you can see are really well-armed, one with a greatsword and one with a longsword at the side. They look pretty prestigious to be assigned to a basement this terrible.
Laura: At ease, soldiers.
Matt: "Of course, of course."
Matt: And they step aside. Kima steps forward and takes her holy symbol and removes it from around her neck. She looks at the wall for a second, then places it into what you didn't see before was some sort of a slight recess in the wood. It flashes with divine energy, and suddenly the wood illusion is dispelled and what you see before you is a stone doorway that begins to slowly shift to the side and open up into a staircase.
Laura: Are we going to find any of these defenses right away, or what?
Matt: Kima kind of gives you a look, shrugs, and, "To be perfectly honest, I have not been within the vault."
Taliesin: Well.
Ashley: Okay.
Marisha: Huh. Is there a blueprint somewhere?
Travis: Liam, you're up. I mean, (clears throat) Vax.
Sam: I thought he was Vex.
Liam: Sorry, my communication earring was a little low there. What was said?
Laura: Check for some traps, brother.
Liam: You got it. You got it. I'm glad to get out of upstairs, I mutter to my sister, because the decor up there was shit.
Marisha: (laughs)
Liam: That is... high. That was a 26.
Matt: 26 for?
Laura: Traps in the stairway.
Liam: Just traps.
Matt: Perception for traps? All right. As you slowly begin to descend the stairway, you keep an eye out across the staircase itself and any of the surrounding walls. The stonework here is also extremely ancient, marking probably a similarity to the most ancient of buildings you've seen in this city. This subterranean structure is probably one of the older parts of this temple. You don't see anything trap-wise. The stairway eventually comes to an end into a chamber about 50 feet by 50 feet. It's very, very low light. There appear to be--
Orion: Oh! Light!
Matt: Okay. The brief moment of light, before your eyes can really focus in, there's a flash of light at the end of Tiberius's staff, and the room actually gets harder to see. You see there is a thick white mist that just kind of hangs in the air throughout the entirety of this room.
Orion: Oh! (fssh)
Marisha: It's like having your high-beams on when it's foggy.
Orion: I de-cast Light.
Matt: Okay. You dispel the Light.
Orion: What is all of this poppycock?
Matt: Your eyes adjust a little bit, and you can see what looks like-- this room, for the most part, doesn't have any sort of details. There are a couple of sconces with low, flickering light that are embedded in the side of the walls of this 50 foot by 50 foot room. It's about 20 feet high.
Marisha: I go ahead and I do a little Wind Gust and I go, (blows air).
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Down the hall, to clear out the fog.
Matt: Which spell is this?
Marisha: Gust of Wind.
Matt: Okay, so you cast Gust of Wind. The mist that was filling this room blows out the other side and you can see, the room is a little more visible now.
Orion: Oh, very good. Light!
Matt: There's still a light mist on the sides, but the center of the walkway is clear for a second. You see now in the center of the room what were initially just dark spots in the mist, there are two pillars that are attached from ceiling to floor, roughly about 20 feet apart from each other, kind of in the center of each side of the room. Each pillar is solid gray stone with what looks like intricately carved small dragons almost curling and wrapping around the statues. Each one of their heads kind of turned, mouth opened kind of angrily in different directions.
Laura: Can I check for traps or see if there's anything--
Travis: You should re-cast that.
Matt: You guys, both of you guys make perception checks.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: That's a 19.
Laura: Oh, he already rolled. Look at him.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Perception?
Matt: Mm-hm.
Laura: 25.
Matt: So looking about, Liam-- Sorry, Vax. You notice the base of each one of these pillars is not flush with the floor. There is a slight gap, meaning there is some sort of a rotation or a pivot to these pillars.
Laura: Hm.
Matt: You notice that these mouths of the dragons seem to be what's creating this white mist, and as time progresses, the mist begins to refill up the room rather quickly.
Laura: All right. Do I notice any-- does it seem-- Well, without touching it. Any kind of poisonous in nature, anything like that?
Matt: Looks like mist.
Ashley: Should we run through?
Orion: While we're standing around, I'd like to reassign the earrings to Vax, Grog, and Scanlan.
Laura: I don't get one anymore? You're taking it off of me right now?
Travis: Yeah, he's giving it to me. (laughs)
Orion: Because we're always together, we're always kind of in the back together, and they're always kind of like up in the fray, so--
Travis: That's true, I do wander off easily.
Sam: Oh, is that you, Grog?
Travis: (laughs) Hi. I know.
Orion: She's always kind of like in the middle. She's the wild card. He's always in the back with us also because we're the ranged dudes.
Laura: All right.
Marisha: Wait, do I still have one?
Taliesin: I'm putting down my mask, just in case this is awful.
Matt: Okay. You guys are still at the stairway. The mist has now filled the room again in front of you.
Laura: Ugh. Should we try breathing it and see what happens?
Sam: Yeah, sure.
Marisha: My Gust of Wind--
Laura: I just reach my arm into the mist and just see--
Marisha: My Gust of Wind lasts up to one minute, by the way, so I can keep--
Laura: Oh, maybe we should just not touch the mist and go straight through the room.
Marisha: I'm just airbending.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: You've been wanting to say that.
Laura: So you can blow it and we just walk through?
Matt: As this conversation has continued-- let's say about 30 or 40 seconds has gone by in transferring the earrings and the discussion, so there's still a little bit of-- there is a clear pathway in the center there.
Marisha: Not much time.
Sam: Let's go.
Laura: Should we go?
Sam: Let's go through.
Laura: Let's go before it gets back.
Travis: Yeah.
Ashley: I start running.
Taliesin: Yes, go, run.
Liam: Hustle, hustle.
Laura: Go, go, go.
Matt: Okay. You all start running through. You're running through with them and keeping concentration on your spell.
Orion: Vax, check for traps!
Sam: Vorak, Desona, come!
Laura: I perception-checked the room. It didn't seem like there was anything.
Orion: Oh, are we good? Okay.
Liam: I'm running ten feet ahead of everybody. I rolled a big old one. (laughter)
Sam: He tripped.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Wow.
Matt: You continue forward, and as you're rushing through the group, not paying attention, you gently hit the edge of the mist barrier with your shoulder, as you're rushing to the side instinctually to stealth along the wall. As your shoulder breaks the mist--
Liam: Bring it.
Matt: All of the dragon mouths burst into bright fiery flame and begin spinning rapidly in the room. The people that are in the center running through right now, which include Keyleth, Scanlan, Tiberius, and Pike, all of you guys make dexterity saving throws.
Ashley: What?!
Sam: Whoa!
Marisha: Son of a bitch.
Laura: Vax!
Sam: Way to go, Vax.
Taliesin: Teacher, teacher, did I have time to finish my book?
Matt: You have.
Taliesin: Yes!
Ashley: Dexterity check?
Liam: You said dex save? Dex save?
Matt: Dex save, yes.
Orion: 18.
Marisha: It's all right.
Matt: 18?
Orion: Mm-hm.
Matt: All right. Hmm. Scanlan?
Sam: Oh! 13.
Matt: 13.
Ashley: Three.
Matt: All right.
Liam: 26.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Also 13.
Ashley: But I'm short! I'm so short. They would--
Laura: Super duper short.
Travis: Just going to hit you in the face.
Ashley: They would just flow right over me.
Matt: Okay. As the flames just burst out throughout the room, tearing into the air with this reddish-white flame, both Vax and Tiberius manage to try and dodge out of the way as best they can, only receiving, each of them--
Laura: Well, all Vax has to do is roll, because he's already on the freaking ground.
Matt: 12 points of fire damage to each of you.
Marisha: To who?
Liam: Well, rogue with Uncanny Dodge, for a successful save gets zero damage.
Matt: You take none.
Orion: And I take half.
Matt: So you take zero damage, you take 12.
Orion: So I take half. Is it 24 total?
Matt: No, 24 total. You take half.
Orion: Oh.
Marisha: The rest of us?
Matt: Scanlan, Keyleth, and Pike all take 24 points of fire damage.
Sam: Ugh.
Ashley: I got 24 points.
Marisha: Ouch.
Orion: Oh! My robe.
Sam: Ow. Are we still moving?
Liam: Tuck and roll.
Orion: Are you getting used to your new foot, Vax?
Liam: I'm back!
Matt: You guys move through-- that's the four of you guys. Percy, Grog, and Vex and Trinket are all behind, as they watch the flames burst out and they all kind of stop their inertia, and now the mist slowly fills up the room.
Travis: Whoa.
Matt: About the time that your spell wears off for the first minute.
Marisha: Okay. (weak chuckle) Let's move?
Travis: It fills up the room?
Laura: We're still in the room.
Sam: The three of us, you're still back.
Matt: You guys are split right now, with the bearers, the Scalebearers.
Laura: Oh, they're coming with us, they're like coming with us through the whole thing?
Matt: They're with you, yeah.
Marisha: Wait, hang on.
Laura: Keyleth, blow the smoke again. Blow the mist away. If you can.
Marisha: Burning another spell slot. All right, here we go.
Matt: Oh, no.
Ashley: We run through it.
Laura: And now we run.
Marisha: Oh, no. He doesn't care.
Travis: He doesn't care.
Taliesin: No, we walk gently through.
Matt: Burning the second spell slot. (wind noise) The mist clears itself. Now that you're aware of what it does, you're very careful to direct it towards the center and leave an open path. The rest of you rush through, including the Scalebearers, in the minute you have. The wind is blowing in your face from Keyleth's position. It's kind of like stepping into the force of a hurricane. You have to put your hand in front of you to see--
Laura: (shouts) Your breath smells pretty good, though, Keyleth.
Marisha: Thanks, I tried to get a little of a sage thing.
Ashley: Sagey rosemary?
Travis: Very minty.
Marisha: A little orange blossom. It's nice.
Orion: I'm going to Prestidigitate a tiny air shield in front of me.
Liam: When I bite into a York Peppermint Patty--
Marisha: It's also pure oxygen, so we could get a little buzz.
Matt: It's a very, very tiny shield. It protects this much of your face.
Orion: That's what I'm doing.
Matt: Your eyes are fine. The rest of your robes are still (windblown cloth sounds).
Orion: Yeah.
Matt: You guys all make your way across the room. You then finish your spell and the mist immediately fills up and completely obfuscates that room behind you once more.
Sam: One down!
Marisha: We made it!
Sam: 20 rooms to go.
Matt: You're now in what is a ten-foot-wide chamber for an additional-- a tunnel or hallway-- for another 20 feet before it opens up into another room, but there is no light source in there whatsoever. You, with Light on your staff again, you kind of step ahead to--
Laura: Do you want to shoot an arrow in?
Orion: Oh, would you like to see?
Laura: Yeah, let's do it.
Orion: Yeah, very good. Light.
Matt: All right, so as Vex releases her arrow, light bursts forth from the wooden shaft as it arcs across the room. As it does, you can see the room. As compared to the previous one that was square in shape, this one is circular. It is almost a cylinder in its design. Go ahead and make a perception check.
Laura: 16.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: 29.
Laura: He's better.
Matt: Okay. You notice that across this floor of the circular room, there are these circles marked across the entirety of the surface here.
Laura: Great. Those are probably traps.
Travis: I bet those are fun.
Laura: Pressure plates, maybe?
Orion: Okay, or sigils or-- maybe we have to activate them or not activate them?
Travis: I have darkvision, now with a range of 60 feet.
Sam: Can we see to the other side of the room?
Matt: Hm?
Sam: Can we see all the way to the other side of the room?
Matt: Opposite side, there is actually a much larger opening and what looks to be another staircase that descends. This one is 20 feet wide. It's a very wide staircase from what you're used to seeing, especially in these structures.
Sam: And I'm hoping there's no door.
Matt: No doorway. It's open. It just descends down below. And the only way you can tell is that the arrow arcs across--
Liam: Everybody stand back. I'm going to click my Boots of Haste--
Laura: What? Shouldn't we throw something onto one of the pressure plates first and see what it does?
Liam: Yeah, me. I'm going to click my Boots of Haste, I'm going to run, I'm going to do a sort of a running roll, land on the closest circle and wait for half a tick and then roll off of it.
Laura: Are you kidding me?!
Orion: What are you doing?
Travis: No, no, let him do it! Let him do it.
Matt: So as you guys are about to go, "Wait!", Vax is already off. Clicks the boots. The arcane magic of the Boots of Haste kick into his body. He leaps forward. Make an acrobatics check.
Liam: Okay. 22.
Travis: I hope you get your eyebrows burned off.
Matt: All right. You leap forward. Your hand touches the first circle in the room. As it does, there's suddenly a large shift in the room. All of a sudden, the hand which you had purchase on slides out from underneath you. You catch yourself on your feet, but now suddenly there's a loud grinding sound and the entire room seems to be shifting, moving, spinning in its own right, and you instinctually feel something moving towards you very quickly. Make a dexterity saving throw, Liam.
Sam: Oh, boy.
Laura: Vax!
Orion: I click my earring. You're an idiot, Vax.
Liam: I'm going to use Luck because that blew. And that's a natural 20.
Sam: Oh!
Marisha: Oh!
Ashley: Oh snap.
Orion: Yeah, 20!
Ashley: Yeah, 20.
Marisha: Yeah!
Matt: So. You barely manage to move out of the way before that circular portion of the ground skyrockets up like a pillar-- one very similar to the one that you created for your spell-- slams into the ceiling with a heavy thud, retracts, and continues again. In fact, looking around you, all of them in the room are now, at different levels, pistoning into the ceiling. (repeated crashing rock noises) This entire room is slowly rotating and there's just a series of pillars mashing into the ceiling.
Marisha: Oh, it's like a mini-game.
Matt: You have to make an acrobatics check to try and get through this now because you have very little space to move.
Liam: Okay. (laughter)
Liam: I'm going to use Luck again.
Matt: (laughs)
Liam: That is 18.
Matt: 18. You manage to make your way halfway across the room, dodging out of the way as these pillars are slamming and retracting. Kind of use the pattern of when they're pulling down from the ceiling, but they're moving very fast. One of them manages to catch you underneath your ankle. Go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw again.
Liam: That is 15.
Matt: 15. All right.
Travis: Uh-oh.
Ashley: You're going to hurt your foot again, Vax.
Matt: It catches you, takes you off of your balance, and it rockets you towards the ceiling. You manage to pull most of your body out of the way in time, but it still catches the back of your shoulder blade. You take 40 points of crushing damage.
Travis: Yes! (cackles)
Sam: Ohhh!
Marisha: Holy shit.
Matt: As you are slammed into the ceiling. And as the pillar retracts, you roll off with a heavy wheeze of pain. (groan) Catching onto your feet again. Make one more acrobatics check.
Marisha: Oh my god. If you get crushed to death--
Travis: (laughs) On Skype.
Liam: That's a 23.
Matt: What was that?
Travis: 23.
Matt: 23.
Liam: I'm like an acrobatic cheetah. 23.
Matt: 23. You manage to-- in the severe pain you're feeling, you can tell there's probably some serious bruising in there and you probably broke a couple of ribs, but you manage to just barely dodge and leap out of the way, making your way across the room to where the staircase descends, out of the immediate danger.
Sam: Ah.
Laura: Jeez.
Matt: The rest of you now are standing on the opposite side of this room, which is currently a rotating grinding mill.
Travis: That was great.
Liam: I'd like to check if there's any kind of device or anything on this side--
Orion: Okay, hold on a second, Vax, just chill out for a minute. We all just took a little damage this last time.
Liam: I'm just trying a perception check.
Sam: He's checking. He's checking.
Matt: All right, make a perception check.
Marisha: For a lever or something.
Travis: For a switch.
Liam: 25.
Sam: 25.
Matt: 25. You can see, in the ceiling, in the very, very center of the room, precariously placed right where one of the pillars in the center slams into the ceiling, there appears to be a small quarter-sized hole, gold piece-sized hole in the ceiling.
Ashley: Yeah, come on, Vex.
Taliesin: Race you for it.
Matt: It's in the middle of the room. In the ceiling, where--
Liam: Is there a clear shot of it or is there (bang bang bang) going on?
Matt: Oh, no, it's still going. The pillars are still slamming into the roof. And that one hole you see is right where one of the pillars slams into the roof. You only see it intermittently when the pillar retracts.
Marisha: Go, sharpshooters, go.
Taliesin: You first, or me?
Laura: Well, let's try this first because you might just break it down completely.
Taliesin: Oh, very well.
Laura: You are much more powerful than I am, Percy.
Travis: Yeah, ladies first, perhaps.
Taliesin: Ladies first.
Laura: All right, can I try to shoot an arrow into the little hole?
Matt: You can. This is a hard shot because it's at an angle now. We're talking, this is Robin Hood-level split-the-arrow. Because you have to hit it and then ricochet upward to see if it'll have any effect.
Laura: Oh, jeez Louise.
Travis: Well, get up there.
Marisha: I place my hands on her shoulders--
Travis: Can you inspire?
Sam: I can inspire her.
Marisha: And I give her Enhance Ability.
Sam: Ooh, Enhance Ability.
Laura: Okay, what does that mean?
Marisha: You have advantage on-- oh, ability checks. It's just ability checks.
Matt: Ability checks. It's not going to help for an attack.
Laura: This is, what, an attack?
Marisha: Never mind.
Matt: This would be an attack.
Travis: I would like to offer my beard for a rub of good luck.
Laura: Thanks, Grog.
Matt: As you offer the beard, it tears off.
Travis: What?
Ashley: Oh, no!
Travis: What did you do?!
Laura: You know what, I'm going to tie this to the arrow. It's going to give it really good luck.
Sam: That seems like it's aerodynamically--
Laura: I'm not actually going to tie it to the arrow.
Taliesin: Okay!
Laura: I'm just going to tuck it--
Matt: Mark in your inventory, you now have Fake Grog Rope Beard.
Travis: Is that a -1 to my confidence now?
Matt: (laughs) It will come into play.
Travis: (cries)
Orion: So the goal is to shoot an arrow into this-- like the Death Star?
Matt: Essentially, yeah.
Laura: Yeah.
Orion: Okay, cool. As I see her ready, I'm going to hold up my hand with my ring and point it right at that hole.
Matt: To do--
Laura: So you can deflect it if I--
Orion: I got your back.
Laura: All right, thanks, Tiberius.
Orion: Get it, Vex.
Matt: All right, and you're going to--
Sam: I'm going to inspire her. With inspiration. I'll sing, (sings) Ooh ooh, shut up and shoot that hole! Your arrow is my destiny, yeah I said,
All: (sings) Ooh ooh, shut up and shoot that hole! (laughs)
Matt: And with that, you feel your focus, you wait, you breathe in, you breathe out, you breathe in, you breathe out in pattern with the slamming of the piston against the ceiling.
Laura: Oh, I'm so nervous.
Ashley: Get it, get it, get it, you're going to do it.
Matt: You let out all your breath and you hold, hold, hold, waiting between heartbeats, and then (twwt), release. Go ahead and make your attack roll.
Laura: I'm going to roll the fancy one we got last week.
Liam: Get it, girl. Get it.
Laura: All right. (laughs) Oh, no. Okay. I add my attack bonus?
Matt: Yes, you do.
Sam: Plus an inspiration.
Laura: Plus an inspiration dice?
Matt: Plus a d10.
Orion: Oh, shit.
Marisha: (whispering) It's so quiet.
Orion: I know.
Laura: Oh, that's awesome! Okay. 35. (yelling)
Travis: Good inspiration.
Matt: As you release the arrow, you see the pillars slamming. The pillar comes down just as the arrow crests over it, past another pillar that just barely manages to miss it by a segment.
Orion: I cast Telekinesis to swoop it up. (whoosh)
Sam: Oh, god.
Orion: Just to help and guide it.
Ashley: No, but it's already gone in.
Travis: We don't need it! We don't need it!
Laura: Oh, let me just see if I got it first!
Liam: She rolled a 35, we don't need shit.
Orion: It's going in there, anyway. I don't even have to roll.
Matt: So. As the pillar pulls down, the arrow goes cascading forward. Go ahead and make a d20 roll with the +5 modifier.
Orion: Sweet. That's 17.
Matt: 17? Okay. So as the arrow makes its way, it ricochets off the bottom edge of the actual hole and immediately bends itself upward, the shaft bending. As it begins to start heading up the hole, there's a sudden force of arcane energy that slams it even harder up into the top of this tiny little slit.
Travis: Yeah, good.
Matt: As it goes up there, you hear what sounds like a splintering of wood and metal. Then you hear metal grinding. You start seeing bits and chunks of grinding metal begin to pour out of the hole and the pillars begin to (scraping stone).
Laura: Hey.
Ashley: Yeah.
Travis: Nice shot!
Ashley: Yeah, Vex!
Matt: Eventually coming to a halt.
Marisha: A wrench in the machine.
Taliesin: I could have done it.
Laura: You totally could have done that.
Taliesin: I could have made that shot.
Sam: Next room's yours.
Taliesin: Yes, next room, next room's all mine.
Orion: That was one of those impossible things, right?
Matt: Pretty damn close to impossible.
Orion: I knew it.
Laura: Nice.
Marisha: (laughs) Pretty damn close to impossible.
Sam: All right, let's go across and heal our rogue.
Travis: Yeah, we walk across.
Laura: Yeah, all right.
Liam: As they come to the other side, I clutch my broken rib and injuredly hold a hand up and give a half-assed high-five to my sister. (grunts)
Laura: Good job getting slammed into the roof like that.
Liam: Yeah, you're welcome.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: So can we take a short rest to heal up and then also a short rest to take a short rest in real life?
Matt: You can. We're going to go ahead and stop here. You're now taking a short rest.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: You guys take a moment. If you want to go ahead and heal up using any of your hit dice, you're able to, Vax.
Marisha: I'm going to do that.
Sam: Me, too.
Matt: And on that note, we're going to go ahead and take our five-minute break here, guys.
Travis: Cool.
Sam: Five.
Matt: While the party takes a short rest, we're taking a five-minute rest. We've got to be done by ten tonight with the stream, so.
Sam: Let's do it.
Laura: Woo.
Matt: So we're going to take a five-minute break.
Sam: True five. True five.
Matt: Orion, if you want to go ahead and come over, we're going to go ahead and give you guys-- yes, sir?
Zac: Bring them on up.
Matt: Okay, yeah, so we're going to go ahead and introduce our guests and give them an overview of the charity that we have currently on the stream tonight.
Travis: That was great work, though.
Laura: Yes.
Marisha: Oh my god, I rolled two eights in a row.
Taliesin: Nice!
Marisha: That's awesome.
Matt: I'm going to pass this over to Orion.
Orion: Okay.
Matt: Come on over. Gonna enjoy my chickens.
Sam: Don't forget to go to Teespring and buy our T-shirts.
Laura: Oh, let-- no! We haven't even talked about it at all!
Matt: Yes! By the way, our T-shirts are on Teespring. We'll have six more days.
Sam: Six more days.
Marisha: They also just went up on our website, on critrole.com. So you can go to our website and find the link.
Matt: All right, guys, we'll see you in a little bit. Meanwhile, take it away.
Sam: I'm going to tweet the Teespring link right now.
Zac: Lucas, go fullscreen.
Marisha: Sam is tweeting it.
Orion: Give me that chair.
Zac: Cool. Are you good, man?
Orion: Yeah.
Zac: Sweet.
Orion: We had points. We had points. Are we standing for this?
Taylor: Yeah.
Orion: Tell me that for the chat thing. Hi, everybody! Orion Acaba here and Taylor Carol. This is our special guest. And he's with GameChanger, and he has a couple of things to say for this particular awesome charity that we are working with today with SquareEnix and the Deus Ex anniversary.
Taylor: Yeah.
Marisha: Taylor!
Taylor: Well, first of all, on behalf of GameChanger, I just want to say what a blast it is to be with you guys. Personally, I've never watched D&D before. You guys have made me a huge fan.
Orion: Yes.
Taylor: And, yeah. So a little bit of backstory about GameChanger. About nine years ago, I was diagnosed terminal form of cancer. I was given about two weeks left to live, but thankfully it's been a long two weeks. I'm totally healthy now. (cheers)
Taylor: Thank you. But when I was sick, the most incredible thing that I saw was the impact that video games had on the people and on the children that were fighting cancer and other rare diseases. And witnessing the incredible good of the game community of video games. My dad and I resolved to make an organization that used and capitalized on that incredible good of the video games, of the gaming community, to help those suffering from rare diseases. And so one year later, GameChanger charity was born, and we started out just collecting games from the incredible gaming community, giving them back to kids suffering from rare diseases. And seven years later it evolved into what we have now. Now we're sponsored with some incredible gaming organizations like Square. A huge thanks to them for partnering with us for this awesome campaign. But yeah, today we go into hospitals and do things called GameChanger days where we go and we bring food for the staff, for the families, for the kids suffering from rare diseases. We bring them gaming packages so they can bond together. We provide college scholarships, and we really just try and provide hope and inspiration-- the same hope and inspiration that games really provided me when I was sick.
Orion: Yeah. That's awesome. And we here at--
Taylor: Oh, thank you. No, thank you guys.
Orion: And we here at Critical Role really love organizations like yours, which is why when we started talking, it was such a nice partnership for you to come on and tell us about this organization. Tell everybody where they can find to help, if they wanted to send to GameChanger.
Taylor: Yeah, GameChanger. Yeah.
Orion: Yeah, where would they go for that, to check it out?
Taylor: To support GameChanger, to learn more about what we do, you can visit www.gamechangercharity.org, and if you go to our website, you can see our campaign with Deus Ex. You can go online and if you donate anything more than a dollar, you get a free copy, a director's cut--
Orion: Oh! Well, awesome. That's cool. I'll probably do that too. It sounds like it's pretty sweet. And I want to thank you, the rest, with all of us. I'm doing this because I'm currently fighting cancer. I have-- I don't have that bad of a trek to go through, but it is very inconvenient and painful, but hearing stories like you. I mean, you're 20. He has a beautiful singing voice. He's a singer. And you're going to Harvard, is that what's going on?
Taylor: I am, yeah, I'm a rising junior.
Orion: Stupid doctors, they don't know shit. But people like you inspire me, because up until a few months ago, I didn't need any of that kind of inspiration. So it's great, and your organization's great, so we just wanted to thank you for coming on and speaking with everybody and letting everybody know, and we'll be working together in the future, too, and we'll be doing lots of fun stuff, so yeah. Check these guys out, please.
Laura: Donate, donate.
Ashley: What are you studying at Harvard?
Taylor: I am an English concentrator.
Orion: Whoa.
Marisha: Nice.
Taylor: Yeah, yeah.
Laura: I don't even know what that means.
Orion: Hold on a second. Do you mean like you concentrate on English?
Taylor: (English accent) English primarily.
Orion: Oh, very good. Okay, cool. That's like my second language.
Taylor: You guys have to teach me better accents. I love all of your accents.
Orion: (laughs) Any other questions for our guest, guys?
Zac: I'd like to let everybody know, the mods all have access to the GameChanger command in the chatroom, so if you guys are watching and are not in the chat, just join the chat really quick and you guys will be able to get that link for the donation link to get Deus Ex and anything over a dollar and you get a copy of the game. We're going to go ahead and let that run all the way throughout the rebroadcast and throughout the weekend, so mods, just keep spamming that throughout the chat.
Laura: So donations tonight are going to GameChanger, yeah?
Orion: Yeah.
Zac: It's up to you guys whether or not you want 826LA to go to GameChanger because the link right now just goes to Critical Role, so it's up to you guys for where it goes from there.
Orion: So we can do that.
Laura: Awesome. I think donations tonight will definitely go to GameChanger, yeah.
Orion: Yeah, so that's what we'll do. Awesome!
Taylor: Thank you all.
Orion: Right now. That's the decision.
Taylor: Go team.
Marisha: Tell them it's the last day.
Orion: And this is our last day. Is that right?
Taylor: Yes, so this is the last day to get your copy--
Orion: For the Deus Ex thing.
Zac: Okay, then I will not let it run over the weekend.
Orion: Yeah. But again, dude, thank you for coming on.
Taylor: Hey, thank you.
Orion: And we'll break because I have to pee really bad. But thank you so much.
Taylor: Thank you.
Zac: So guys, just to be clear, all of your donations tonight will go towards GameChanger, but if you want a copy of the game, just go and donate a dollar on the link that we have access to in the chatroom. And just so you guys know, there will not be time for them to read messages tonight after the show. Lucas and I both have to catch a flight, so sorry. We'll get to them next time.
Taylor: Anything more than a dollar.
Zac: Anything more than a dollar, to be clear. Anything more than a dollar.
Ashley: Go donate. Just do it!
Zac: Listen to Ashley. We're also really close to another giveaway, guys. If you guys subscribe, I think we're only like ten away from another giveaway, a large giveaway, which is a signed Player's Handbook and a signed photo of the cast. And every 50 we'll do a giveaway until the show's over tonight. We will not be going late, so just keep in mind, guys, don't send Geek & Sundry messages upset that your message wasn't read. We'll get to it next time. We appreciate you guys donating and Lucas, go ahead and go to drop cam. Yeah, go drop cam. [break]
Matt: Welcome back.
Zac: I had a really quick announcement before we get back into the game. The winner is Paula Konito, so congratulations--
Marisha: Paula Konito!
Matt: Paula Konito, congrats!
Marisha: Paula Konito!
Zac: -- and I understand that we crashed their website for donations--
Matt: (laughs)
Ashley: What?
Zac: So congratulations, guys, for crashing the website, but what is not crashed is our donation link, so if you scroll down and click on the 826LA link, all of the donations that are made tonight they've said will go to GameChanger
Laura: Yeah, the portion of the donations that would normally go to 826LA tonight are going to go to GameChanger.
Zac: So just scroll down on the channel page, click on 826LA or the donate link that's being spammed in the chat room, and all of those donations will go to GameChanger. And they let us know before they left, they just got 10,000 more Deus Ex keys, so we will let that run throughout the weekend.
Travis: That's amazing.
Laura: Oh, awesome.
Orion: Nice!
Zac: So the mods will keep spamming that throughout the weekend and you guys can donate throughout the rebroadcast and things like that for a one-dollar Deus Ex code.
Laura: Anything over a dollar.
Zac: Anything over a dollar, yeah.
Matt: That's so awesome.
Zac: One-oh-one! Enjoy Deus Ex.
Matt: Yeah! Thank you guys so much.
Laura: It would be good if you donated more than one dollar, if you want.
Taliesin: It's still needed.
Matt: The Critters are strong. The Critters are legion.
Travis: It is. They are.
Matt: It's amazing the things we can do.
Orion: It is on. YES.
Taliesin: There are Critters in the walls.
Marisha: They're in the god--
Marisha: -- damn walls!
Taliesin: -- damn walls!
Taliesin: Thank you for being there with me on that.
Matt: All righty, so! Back into the fray.
Laura: Oh, god, okay.
Matt: You guys, after finishing your short rest, healing up various wounds in that circumstance--
Sam: (plays note on flute) (laughter)
Matt: You make your way, playing a fancy little ditty on the flute. You make your way down this long, long staircase. You continue down for, I'd say, probably a good hundred feet or so before you start encountering, I'll say, a mild change in the scenery, at least. What was normally just a musty hallway is becoming thicker and thicker coated with large spiderwebs.
Laura: Ugh.
Travis: Awesome.
Orion: Everything's so sticky.
Ashley: Spiders!
Matt: You manage to push through and cut through, but it gets to the point where it's just so matted you guys are having to bushwhack your way through as if you had a machete.
Taliesin: I'm not taking off my mask.
Travis: Can I turn to one of those (clears throat) Scalebearers and ask if they've ever dealt with any umber-hulks in this region.
Matt: Scalebearer Vorak gives kind of a curious look to your question. Scalebearer Desona looks to you and says, "No, I don't believe they exist in this region. Nor this close to the surface, as far as I know."
Travis: Right. That's important, isn't it.
Orion: Are the spiderwebs-- are they becoming more as we traverse--
Matt: Yes, they're getting thicker and thicker.
Orion: Okay, so I'm going to make my way towards the front of the group because I'm noticing this and I'm going to do a Fire Breath, and I'm going to instantly cast Control Flame and catch as much as I can of it, and start spinning it, burning the webs as we go.
Matt: Okay. Very cool. So, Tiberius steps forward and breathes a heating breath of dragon fire out of his mouth. As it cascades forward, burning through the nearby webs, he casts a secondary spell and captures it and begins to shape it, almost like it's a fiery clay in the middle of the air. And he utilizes it in a very similar way to how he uses Telekinesis and begins to use that rolling fire to burn through the webbing as you guys continue down the stairway.
Laura: Nice.
Taliesin: That's convenient.
Marisha: At least it'll be disinfected.
Orion: Mm-hm-hm. Fire cleans all.
Matt: It also leaves a terrible stench. Burning web has this awful kind of--
Travis: Burnt hair?
Matt: It's similar. Burnt hair with burnt plastic, if you can think of it-- it's awful.
Laura: What's plastic?
Matt: This is more for your own player knowledge, sensory knowledge. (laughter)
Matt: The sound of crackling of the nearby webbing that's slowly retracting and burning and melting is immediately joined by the sound of a low clicking. (groaning)
Laura: I stealth immediately.
Marisha: Oh, that frickin' sound. Do we-- I can try to cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us, if we want to sneak through here.
Laura: Oh, yeah, that would be good!
Marisha: Do you want to try to sneak through?
Travis: Yeah, do it.
Marisha: I cast Pass Without a Trace.
Travis: Now let's vogue. This changes every time!
Orion: Sweet!
Matt: All right, so Pass Without a Trace is cast, while you two both make stealth rolls.
Laura: So, with the Pass Without a Trace?
Matt: With the Pass Without a Trace, yes.
Laura: 31.
Orion: (quietly, to Marisha) Is my magic on stealth, too?
Liam: 24.
Matt: With the plus ten?
Liam: Plus ten from what? Say again?
Laura: Pass Without a Trace.
Matt: Keyleth cast Pass Without a Trace.
Liam: Oh, 34.
Matt: All right. You guys dart off to the side, kind of using the remnants of the web to block your physical forms. The boiling fire that has been placed ahead of you is starting to reflect small little points of reflected light throughout the shadows in the distance that are moving towards you as you see giant hairy arachnid legs.
Orion: I back up! I have my cloak on. And I'm going to go ahead and cast Stoneskin. That's what I do right now.
Matt: You cast Stoneskin? I'm going to go ahead and ask--
Marisha: I'm also going to cast Stoneskin.
Laura: Can I cast, while they're coming-- where did I write it down?
Sam: I'm going to go invisible.
Laura: Never mind, I can't find my spell.
Sam: This is exciting, guys. There's a board of some sort.
Laura: I cast Entangle on the ground.
Matt: In front?
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: You have-- you can cast things?
Laura: (quickly) Yeah, yeah, yeah!
Orion: (quietly) Yeah, she's a ranger, she can cast stuff.
Travis: Apparently.
Taliesin: As long as it's at range.
Sam: Grog, you've got a beard spell.
Travis: I do.
Taliesin: That was my terrible joke and I wish I hadn't. Now I'm embarrassed.
Travis: I can also cast Flatulence.
Sam: And you have Frenzied Rage.
Matt: All right. You can now see skittering off to the side what appear to be a series of large arachnid-like creatures. As you cast Entanglement, you can--
Laura: I'm reading it now.
Matt: Go ahead and read the spell.
Orion: Did I manage to catch with the Control Flame my entire Fire Breath when I did that? And I'm controlling it still?
Matt: Currently you are.
Laura: Oh, that's not what it was. That's the wrong spell. Sorry, sorry, it's Spike Growth, is the spell.
Sam: Spikes growth?
Laura: I cast Spike Growth.
Matt: Spike Growth, okay, that is different.
Laura: Yes, which is-- the ground in a 20-foot radius centered on a point within range twists and sprouts hard spikes and thorns. It's difficult terrain for the duration, but anybody that can see me casting it doesn't take damage to it, it's only the people that don't see me casting it.
Marisha: Dope.
Sam: Really?
Matt: All right.
Laura: Yeah. Any creature that can't see the area at the time the spell is cast must make a wisdom check.
Orion: Cool.
Sam: All right, but can they see the area?
Matt: They can see the area.
Laura: Oh. Well, that's not quite the same thing, then, what I saw. (yells) Forget it, my spell is stupid!
Sam: No, no!
Orion: It's fine, just not in a hallway with stairs.
Laura: I know!
Sam: It's fine, just stick to arrows, really.
Ashley: She can do so much more than just arrows!
Orion: As I see this, can I release my Control Flame and let the Fire Breath just happen, and not control it anymore?
Matt: Looking into your spell now. Oh, Control Flames is a cantrip. You are able to control just enough fire to burn away the things. It wouldn't actually do any damage if released. Control Fire kind of like captures an element of it.
Orion: Okay. So that's what I was using, the element of what I did.
Matt: Yeah.
Orion: So I used it so I could have the fire.
Matt: Exactly.
Orion: Got it.
Matt: You set it as a catalyst to it.
Laura: They can see the ground.
Matt: They can.
Laura: Then no, don't cast it.
Travis: Doesn't it mess up the ground if we try to walk through it?
Laura: Not you guys, but they--
Marisha: But they're spiders. They're probably not that wise.
Orion: Can I cast something else?
Matt: No. Right now everyone rolls initiative.
Orion: Damn it!
Ashley: Ugh.
Matt: There are only so many things you can do here, Tiberius.
Orion: I know, but I like doing lots of things.
Matt: I know you do.
Marisha: That's not bad! I'll take that.
Sam: I lost my dice.
Laura: That's my punishment.
Travis: Fuck, yeah.
Taliesin: I love my new stats.
Laura: I don't think that should count.
Taliesin: I rolled terribly this time but my stats are good.
Sam: Every time, every time.
Orion: What?
Sam: I've never rolled a double digit initiative roll, ever.
Matt: Oh, Scanlan, but you roll when it counts.
Travis: Just Wil Wheaton roll every time you do initiative.
Taliesin: Is that what we're calling it? Wheatoning?
Travis: Yeah, Wheatoning.
Laura: Wheatoning? Yeah.
Taliesin: All right.
Travis: Wheatoning.
Sam: (announcer voice) Wha-Wha-Wheaton.
Matt: All right, so. 25-20.
Ashley: Natural 20. (yelling)
Ashley: I don't think that ever happens when it's like damage or something.
Matt: That's okay.
Laura: 23.
Ashley: I'm gonna go with it.
Matt: Okay, so 23. Grog, what have you got?
Travis: 21.
Matt: Okay, so we've got Vex, Grog, and Pike, what's your dex? What's your initiative bonus?
Ashley: Nothing.
Matt: Nothing, so 20. All right. 20 to 15?
Marisha: 17.
Matt: 17, Keyleth.
Orion: 15.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: All right, Percy. Tiberius. Vax?
Laura: He's gone.
Matt: Has left the screen.
Travis: Oh, really?
Sam: Great.
Ashley: Last.
Matt: I'm going to consider that a low initiative.
Marisha: Oh-ho-ho-ho.
Orion: He just went to go poop.
Sam: Seven!
Matt: Seven for Scanlan.
Orion: Or deal with--
Matt: All right, we'll get to his turn when we get to it.
Ashley: (yells) Vax!
Matt: It's okay. All right, Vex.
Marisha: Wait, there he is.
Sam: He's holding a cat.
Orion: He has a cat.
Sam: It's Trinket! It's Trinket!
Matt: What did you roll for initiative?
Liam: That is a 16.
Matt: 16?
Orion: Okay.
Travis: Get your head out of your ass.
Sam: He's Dr. Evil. (laughter)
Matt: All right, Vex.
Laura: Me?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Oh! I'm going to cast Conjure Barrage at all of the spiders coming at us.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: I'm going to Hunter's Mark whatever one looks the biggest.
Matt: Okay, from this position you will also hit Tiberius to hit all the spiders.
Laura: Oh, where am I?
Matt: You're right here.
Laura: Oh.
Travis: You gotta do what you gotta do. (laughs) Sorry.
Matt: I mean, you could--
Laura: I'm going to move to where I'm in the middle of them. I'm still kind of stuck.
Matt: Right there?
Marisha: Get it!
Laura: Yeah, and then I'll Conjure Barrage from there.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: (quietly) Don't encourage it.
Laura: I cast Hunter's Mark on the biggest one I see.
Matt: Okay, this one here is one of the larger ones.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: So I'm going to go ahead and mark that one. So go ahead and-- Conjure Barrage does what damage?
Travis: (quietly) Hate it.
Laura: It does 3d8 on all creatures.
Matt: Do they get a saving throw?
Laura: They get-- yes, they do. They get half-damage if they save.
Matt: Mmkay. What's the DC on your spells?
Laura: (in a funny gruff voice) My DC is 14.
Orion: (laughs)
Matt: All righty.
Orion: (mimicking Laura's gruff voice) MemememememeME.
Marisha: What's your DC, girl?
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: What's yo digits? Gimme those stats.
Matt: Okay, all you need--
Laura: Do I need to roll for attack?
Matt: Only this one makes it.
Laura: Oh, sweet!
Matt: No, the barrage just happens. They're all caught in it.
Laura: Okay, cool.
Matt: So all of them take full damage, except for this one takes half damage, so go ahead and roll the damage on that.
Laura: Okay. 3d8. 15, and then 20 for the big one with the Hunter's Mark.
Matt: All righty. So. So you moved, did that. Do you want to move Trinket as well?
Laura: Can I have Trinket attack?
Matt: Trinket--
Laura: Oh, that's a lot of them.
Matt: Well, that, and the spell you cast was an action. Trinket can attack as part of your attack round.
Laura: Okay, so I get a second attack?
Matt: Well, no, your spell was an action. So that's your turn. You do Conjure Barrage instead of your attack.
Laura: Cool, I'm going to step back against the wall.
Matt: All right, so you step back there. Do you want to move Trinket anywhere in particular?
Laura: Nah, he can't really get anywhere, it's fine.
Matt: All right, Trinket is there and-- (bear noises)
Laura: It's good times, guys.
Matt: Angrily, a growl in the distance. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I'd like to hold my turn.
Sam: What?
Orion: Ooh, yeah!
Matt: All right, Grog holds initiative.
Orion: Strategy.
Marisha: Must be something good.
Matt: Pike, you're up.
Ashley: Okay, how far can I move up to use a Spiritual Weapon? I can't tell where I'm at. I'm sorry, I didn't wear my glasses.
Matt: I mean, you can move through your allies without an issue. You can shift through your own guys without a problem.
Ashley: Okay, so I would like to cast a golden spiderweb of thorns.
Sam: Ooh.
Laura: (gasps) What?
Marisha: Ooh.
Orion: (laughs) Nice!
Taliesin: Fancy.
Matt: All right. Okay.
Ashley: And encase the spiders.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: That's cool.
Matt: Okay. (laughter)
Ashley: Like a thorny net.
Matt: This would be considered a net, if we are considering a weapon that you are conjuring for this.
Ashley: I'm just making it look really pretty.
Matt: Right.
Ashley: Basically.
Travis: (quietly) It looks so pretty.
Matt: So the effect of this-- I'm letting you hit multiple guys with this. It would not do any damage.
Ashley: It wouldn't do any damage, it would just contain them?
Matt: It would possibly have an effect on their ability--
Ashley: Even if they're thorny? Even like holy thorns? Oh.
Matt: It would be very itchy for them.
Ashley: All right, you know what?
Orion: Oh. Well, I mean, that's not out of--
Laura: I think you should stick with it, it's awesome.
Sam: Yeah, man, commit.
Ashley: Okay. Contain them.
Orion: Yeah, it's thematic.
Ashley: Contain them and then somebody could just--
Laura: Fireball.
Ashley: Throw fire, a fireball at them.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll a d20 and then add five to it.
Ashley: Okay. 12.
Matt: 12? Okay. These four in the immediate front, right there, as you bring back your mace in the air, you kind of hang onto the side with the leather strap around your wrist. You reach up and grab your holy symbol. As you release the holy symbol to hold your hand up, divine energy streaks out from your fingertips and forms into this kind of gold and silver net. As your arm is doing this kind of throwing animation in the air like that, the net shoots out from the front and spreads down onto the spiders and contracts around. You can see it catches them and they start scrambling inside. These front four are considered grappled. (cheering)
Ashley: All right, all right!
Matt: The one in the back managed to avoid it.
Orion: Cool.
Laura: Nice!
Marisha: Nice!
Matt: That's it? That brings it to Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay, with that new development--
Orion: Wait. Can you do lightning?
Marisha: I can. I'm going to do Poison Spray, though. Where am I right now?
Matt: You're right here. Behind Pike as she threw her giant golden net.
Marisha: I'm going to be like, 'scuse me, 'scuse me, Pike, 'scuse me. Sorry, sorry.
Ashley: Yes? Oh, go through, go through, go go go!
Marisha: Thank you, thank you, thank you.
Ashley: Tag you in! Tag you in!
Marisha: (whoosh) Poison Spray! It's a ten-foot cone.
Matt: Ten-foot cone. If you want to get right up in here you could get these three there.
Marisha: I'll do that.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: (whoosh) So, it's a constitution saving throw.
Matt: Okay. This one succeeds, this one fails, this one fails.
Sam: (singing along with the battle music) It's the music that means we're having a fight.
Matt: All right. So, this one succeeds, so no damage, but these two take damage. Go ahead and roll it.
Marisha: Okay, so they take 2d12. Six. Ugh. Seven damage.
Matt: Seven damage to each.
Marisha: It's not great. I think he takes half damage, though, even though he fails.
Matt: Does he? I think Poison Mist--
Marisha: Poison Spray.
Matt: Oh, Poison Spray. It's a cantrip. I think it's damage or nothing.
Marisha: Oh, yeah, I guess so.
Matt: All right. It's your move, do you want to keep moving or do you want to stay where you are?
Marisha: Can I get out of everyone's way?
Matt: You're currently-- actually, down from where you cast it, you would be able to move out, yeah.
Marisha: Can I back up a little bit? Yeah.
Matt: You can, they're still grappled.
Marisha: I just kind of want to-- yeah.
Matt: To there. All right.
Marisha: Your turn!
Matt: That ends your turn. Vax, Percy.
Taliesin: Please, be my guest.
Liam: Did you say Vax, Percy?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Yep.
Liam: I'm doing my best seeing from where I can see here. Keyleth is right in front of me?
Matt: She was. She just pulled behind you.
Marisha: I moved behind.
Laura: Now you're in front of the spiders.
Marisha: You're good, you're in front.
Liam: Okay, there's a little bit of distance, so I'm just going to start hucking daggers at them. I'm going to start with dagger of life stealing.
Marisha: You're only two squares away.
Liam: That is a 16 to hit.
Matt: 16 to hit? Hits.
Liam: Okay, so that is four, six, is ten of damage.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Then the keen dagger follows. That is a 27.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: That hits for ten damage, and then--
Laura: You're killing them!
Liam: And then the flametongue dagger.
Matt: You're not Hasted anymore, by the way.
Liam: You're right, forget it, yeah, forget that last. That's right, two.
Matt: So as you're off to the side hiding among the slowly burning webbing, you move around, huck both daggers. One strikes a spider right in the center of where its eyes are and it screeches for a second before it curls up, its legs kind of pulling into its torso. The other one begins to pull out of the net that Pike set, and as it does you throw the secondary dagger. It strikes it in its abdomen, and the blade retracts and returns to your belt, and as it does, it leaves this streak of greenish liquid. And you have a better view of these spiders now. Go ahead and make a nature check, both Keyleth and Vex.
Marisha: Dope.
Orion: By the way, I'm here, but I'm also there.
Marisha: Natural 20. (yelling)
Matt: You're also there?
Orion: Cloak of Displacement.
Laura: Good, because I rolled an eight.
Matt: Oh.
Orion: There's like two of me.
Matt: All right. So, Keyleth
Sam: (whistles with the battle music)
Matt: You notice as most spider-like creatures go, you're used to like the darker, furry, wolf-spider types. These have a different color. Their physical bodies are more white and blue. Their coloration is mostly white but with a kind of bluish hue to it and their eyes are almost pink-white in color.
Laura: Ugh.
Ashley: Because they live underground. There's no sunlight.
Matt: They're a very strange, different kind of spider.
Liam: I don't like this.
Marisha: Is that all I know, with my natural 20?
Matt: You haven't encountered too many types of arachnids, but there's something about them that seems loosely themed in the ethereal.
Laura: Oh.
Marisha: Hm.
Matt: You in your experience, you've heard of certain spiders that can travel through the planes rapidly.
Orion: Now damn plane spiders?
Travis: Maybe we don't have to kill it, maybe they just (pfft).
Marisha: Gotcha. Hey, guys, I think these are like magical bamf-ing spiders.
Orion: Oh.
Taliesin: Okay.
Sam: Cool, bro, let's kill them.
Marisha: Yeah, let's kill them.
Taliesin: There's one spider that's not caught?
Laura: There's what, there's three spiders left?
Matt: Yes, one back here.
Taliesin: All right, I'm going to take a couple of shots at it with my Sharpshooter, so let's start with 24 to hit?
Matt: What was it?
Taliesin: 24 to hit?
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: And let's do this. My first shot--
Sam: Ka-pew!
Taliesin: That's depressing. Well, I get the bonus, so that's 18 points of damage.
Matt: 18 points of damage? All righty.
Marisha: That's not too depressing.
Ashley: That's not depressing at all.
Travis: That's not depressing.
Taliesin: That's not too depressing. It's because I'm taking a negative five to hit.
Laura: Oh.
Taliesin: And that's-- oh, that's not bad. I have new numbers. 16 to hit.
Matt: 16 does also hit, yeah.
Taliesin: Aha!
Matt: Same target?
Taliesin: Same target, with an added fire bonus. Three fire damage and 17 as well.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: 17 plus three fire damage.
Ashley: That bonus is awesome.
Laura: He is so dead.
Matt: (gunshot noise) That spider gets splattered. You see there's a burst of flame and a (explosion noise) as its body is knocked in the air, torn asunder, and then consumed by the flame burst at the same time. You see what looks like a scattering of ash across the ground and the steps beneath it.
Marisha: It looks like flash paper?
Matt: Essentially, yeah.
Taliesin: And I duck back behind Grog. (laughter)
Travis: Where are you going?
Matt: All right. These two spiders that are currently caught in the net both (whoosh) vanish and the net falls flat.
Laura: Oh, bamf-ing spiders.
Matt: (teleportation noise)
Taliesin: Oh, shit.
Matt: One is striking at you.
Laura: Me?
Matt: That is a 21 to hit.
Laura: It hits me.
Matt: And against Percy, that is a 25.
Taliesin: Oh my god, that hits.
Matt: All right. You both take 13 points of piercing damage
Taliesin: Ow!
Matt: And I need you both to make a constitution saving throw. (groaning)
Taliesin: Oh, bugger.
Marisha: That can't be good.
Taliesin: 13 points of piercing damage?
Matt: Mm-hm.
Marisha: They poofed. Poofers.
Laura: 17? Oh, wait. 19.
Matt: 19 constitution saving throw.
Taliesin: Constitution saving throw. (blows raspberry)
Marisha: Oh, no, Percy!
Taliesin: Rolled a one.
Matt: So as all of a sudden, the strange (teleportation noise) sound streaks behind you, you turn over your shoulder just in time to see the spiders pop out of seemingly nowhere and strike into you. The fangs sink into your side and you knock them off with your elbow.
Laura: (grunts in pain)
Matt: You feel the venom extract itself from the fangs, but just as you pull it out of the side, so it actually does not envenom your body. Percy, you're not so lucky. The venom pulses into the side of your shoulder.
Taliesin: (groans in pain)
Matt: And you feel this burning sensation ripple through your entire upper right torso. You take 21 points of poison damage.
Marisha: Oh, shit!
Liam: What was that number, again?
All: 21.
Sam: He's fine, he's fine.
Marisha: Is that all it does, just poison him?
Matt: Yep.
Taliesin: I am poisoned, though.
Matt: You are not considered poisoned. It's the damage that's poison.
Laura: Oh, it's straight-up damage.
Marisha: Okay, that's not too bad.
Taliesin: It could be worse.
Matt: That ends their turn. Tiberius? You're still holding your turn, Grog?
Travis: Mm-hm.
Marisha: I did take Protection From Poison.
Laura: I should cast that on us.
Marisha: If that's necessary.
Matt: All right, Tiberius?
Orion: So we're in a hallway, a stairwell?
Matt: Yes, it's a stairway heading down, essentially, right here, and then it evens out at the bottom point there.
Marisha: Fighting on the stairs.
Orion: Is it like a big--
Matt: It's about 15 feet up to the ceiling. Ten, 15.
Orion: Oh. Very well. How many are left, two?
Matt: Two.
Laura: Yeah.
Orion: Obelisk of Stone.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Squishy spiders.
Orion: Yeah, these squishy spiders.
Matt: So as both the spiders are knocked off both Percy and Vex, you guys kind of rear back, ready to defend yourselves. Suddenly the stairwell shakes for a second and pillars of stone go (stone crushing noises) from underneath. Similar to the trap room you encountered earlier.
Orion: That's it. 21.
Matt: 21? And what's the DC on your spell?
Orion: 17.
Matt: 17? Both spiders get mashed pretty horribly into the ceiling. You see where the pillars are slammed into the ceiling permanently. You can see the legs kind of dangling out for a second and then slowly curl in towards where the edge of the stone pillars are at the ceiling.
Laura: Eat it.
Marisha: Are there any corpses that are more accessible than the one that got torched and the ones that are squished?
Travis: Yeah, are there any spider fangs we can put in the bag?
Marisha: Yeah, because I have that book that helps me do that now.
Taliesin: There's the one I shot.
Matt: You can, actually, there are-- there's one that you shot. No, actually, the one that you killed is the one that burst into flame.
Taliesin: Yes, the one that burst into flame.
Matt: That one's not going to be salvageable. There's a few that you and Vex killed. Vex and Vax both just kind of wiped out a few of the spiders. Go ahead and make an herbalism roll.
Laura: Ooh, I bet we can get some of that poison. Dip the arrows in it.
Marisha: What did the book do again, gave me a plus or an advantage? Did it give me an advantage on rolls or like a plus something?
Matt: I asked you to write that down. I will say advantage.
Marisha: Oh, wait, you did ask me to write it down and I think I did.
Matt: Advantage or a bonus, which of the two is it?
Marisha: Oh, no, I didn't write it down, I just wrote that I have the books.
Matt: Ah. I don't remember what I did for that. I will say advantage. That's the easiest to remember.
Marisha: That's better. 24.
Matt: 24. You managed to extract two poison glands from one of the spiders. The other ones were too damaged beyond repair.
Laura: Ooh.
Orion: Sweet.
Marisha: Two poison glands.
Matt: Two small venom glands.
Orion: Nice.
Marisha: I give them to the twins.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Oh, we can just use them?
Matt: You don't know.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: She hands you two nasty-looking glands that are still wet with spider ichor.
Marisha: I got this for you guys.
Laura: Oh, thank you, Keyleth.
Travis: Do you want me to hold onto them?
Liam: That's very... that's sweet. I love it.
Laura: Tiberius, would you happen to have a little glass vial or something I could put this in?
Orion: I think I have two left.
Laura: Oh!
Orion: I need to get more.
Travis: I have them.
Orion: Oh, here we go. (pop)
Laura: Thank you.
Taliesin: (laughs) Well.
Travis: I'm like a Wal-Mart over here. You could have asked me, but that's cool.
Marisha: Your book helps.
Sam: I'm ready to make my attack turn.
Matt: All right. There is nothing there. (laughter)
Sam: I sheath my sword.
Matt: There you go. (laughter)
Taliesin: A little help here, please? Would be nice.
Ashley: Yes.
Laura: Oh. Oh, wait, I thought you weren't poisoned-- oh, you need healing because you are--
Ashley: What are you at?
Taliesin: I'm at 47.
Laura: Okay.
Ashley: Okay.
Sam: Eh, you're fine. Suck it up.
Ashley: I guess we all need some-- what's everybody else at?
Liam: Ah, that's what I was at after I healed myself with a handful of hit dice after getting crushed into the ceiling.
Laura: Yeah, but we took a short break and we're not doing that now.
Sam: Use your hit dice, you'll be fine.
Taliesin: I could just use my-- oh.
Ashley: Um, hold on.
Matt: Are you guys taking a short rest, is that what you're doing?
Laura: No.
Travis: No, no.
Marisha: No, we're good.
Ashley: Let me heal you up, Percy, hold on.
Laura: Can I ask a question while she's healing Percy?
Orion: We've taken a short rest already, right?
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: The grappling arrow I used on the little halfling, I can get that back, right?
Matt: Yeah, you retrieved it.
Laura: Just making sure.
Sam: I'll continue on down the hallway.
Travis: I join him.
Matt: Keyleth, are you still using Pass Without a Trace?
Marisha: No.
Laura: No?
Sam: She had to break it to use Stoneskin.
Matt: It's a concentration spell, isn't it?
Marisha: Yeah, but I cast Stoneskin on myself.
Matt: You did. All right. So go ahead and make a stealth roll.
Marisha: Sorry.
Sam: Not good. Nine.
Travis: I'm with you.
Matt: Nine. All right.
Sam: (nasal voice) Nine.
Ashley: Nine, Percy.
Liam: I would like to continue to stealth ahead of the group and also continue checking for traps.
Sam: We already went.
Travis: Scanlan's already ahead of you.
Laura: Sam already said it.
Liam: Oh, he is?
Matt: As you stealthily move along the side of the wall, Scanlan comes pattering down the stonework.
Sam: Skipping.
Ashley: Percy, 18.
Taliesin: 18? Thank you.
Laura: Scanlan, no. (groans)
Matt: Into what is a large central chamber. You can see webbing scattered throughout the entirety of the stone room. It's about 60 feet up. There is very low light from the flickering sconces that are on the walls of this towards the base of the actual room. The building in the center, it looks almost like an ancient mausoleum structure, how it's placed in the center of the room. Closed stone doors. But what catches your eye is that the entirety of the structure seems to be crafted of the same platinum-like material as the container that you guys are carrying the horn in.
Laura: Oh, wow.
Sam: Oh, we made it.
Laura: Are there sapphires all over the walls in here, then?
Matt: Not the walls of the actual chamber itself, just this central building right there.
Orion: We're not stealing from this place.
Matt: Go ahead and make a perception check, anyone who wishes to look for traps.
Sam: While we're out there, I'm going to check--
Laura: (gasps) Oh no, that was my big fancy one.
Orion: Nice. I'm going to check for any arcane stuff and I got--
Liam: 14.
Matt: 14 perception.
Liam: Yeah, 14.
Orion: I'm going to check for 25.
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: Perception?
Taliesin: Perception, 21.
Matt: Okay. 25 for arcane?
Orion: Yeah.
Matt: Best you can gather, as far as the presence of any arcane in this room, the scrolling on the structure in front of you, there are elements of the scrolling that you can see are based in the arcane runes that are used for ritual inscribing, but there's nothing of any magic that you've ever been familiar with that is utilized in this structure. What did you roll?
Laura: Really, really high. Eight.
Matt: All right. So, who is moving in? Who wants to--
Sam: I moved in with Grog.
Travis: I move in as well.
Liam: I'm moving in.
Laura: Can I try to stealth and move alongside just kind of keep to the edge?
Ashley: Going in.
Travis: We're all going in.
Liam: Ditto, kiddo.
Matt: All right, you move off to the side, kind of pushing through some of the webs and there's still webs on the side of the room.
Orion: I'll keep close to the guards and the box.
Ashley: Yeah, I'll go in.
Laura: Okay, I rolled 18 on the stealth.
Matt: All righty.
Ashley: I'll go in close to Grog.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: I'm going to tail my sister, actually.
Matt: All right. (whoosh) You move around over here with your sister.
Laura: And Trinket's going to stay next to Keyleth.
Matt: All righty.
Marisha: Come here, Trinket.
Matt: So they'll go back to this point.
Sam: I'm going to go invisible.
Taliesin: Wait. I'm furry, but I'm not Trinket. Jesus Christ.
Marisha: (laughs)
Matt: All right, you are currently marked as invisible, Scanlan.
Laura: Can we see a spider in here, like a big spider?
Matt: You don't.
Marisha: There's always a big mama spider.
Laura: Okay, can I-- it's dark?
Matt: It's very low light.
Sam: No one's cast Light yet.
Orion: I know.
Laura: I'm going to use my Primeval Awareness and see if I can sense any spiders in the area.
Matt: Okay. You take a moment to concentrate and you sense-- while not in visible range, on the opposite side of this room, a whole bunch of tiny little life sources and one rather large one.
Laura: Good to know.
Travis: Shit.
Ashley: Ugh.
Laura: (whispers) Lots of spiders. Lots. I'm going to cast Protection From Poison on myself.
Matt: All right.
Travis: I cast Terminix.
Taliesin: (laughs)
Liam: I'm drinking a healing potion right now.
Matt: All righty.
Ashley: I'm going to do the same thing.
Marisha: Also, I'll go ahead and-- nah, nah, it's fine.
Taliesin: What does a level two healing potion do, again?
Marisha: I'm going to keep my Stoneskin up.
Ashley: Yeah, what's the level two?
Matt: Level two healing potion does 4d4 + 4.
Orion: I'm going to go use Greater Invisibility, as well.
Matt: Okay. All right. You are also considered invisible.
Sam: Why greater?
Orion: Because I can cast and still stay invisible.
Matt: All right, Kima pushes ahead through the group while you guys are doing this, walks up to the front of the chamber, and you see she takes the holy symbol around from her neck, the symbol of Bahamut, and much like she did to the doorway at the bottom of the temple earlier to find this initial passageway, she feels around in the scrolling and eventually finds a section of it and rotates what looks like a circular part of it that shifts and then pulls out. When she pulls it out, you can see there is a kind of engraving, there is a recessed engraving of the same shape as her holy symbol.
Laura: Before she touches anything, can I let her know that there's a whole lot of spiders on the other side of the room.
Matt: You may do that.
Sam: Wait, what? You didn't tell any of us that.
Travis: Can I shift to her right flank, just at the corner of the mausoleum structure? Right there.
Laura: Just so everybody's aware, those things we just fought? There's a ton more of them on the other side of this little chamber.
Sam: Oh, thanks for telling us.
Laura: No problem.
Matt: Grog, make a stealth check.
Marisha: (whispers) Be very quiet.
Travis: Oh, shit. Natural 20. (cheering)
Taliesin: Spiderman.
Laura: Good thing you took that beard off because it had bells and shit in it.
Travis: Oh, the beard is still there.
Sam: No, no, it fell off.
Travis: Its most majestic part fell off.
Sam: Oh.
Matt: Yeah. There's still some goliath peach fuzz there.
Travis: Substantial Viking-ness happening.
Matt: Grog, for a moment there, you recess into your old hunter training when you were traveling with your barbarian tribe and you take in the darkness around you and walk, fleet of foot, to the edge of it, not making a single sound. You're damn proud of yourself.
Travis: I am.
Taliesin: (whispers) Quietly.
Matt: So as you tell this to Kima, she goes, (whispers) "What? Spiders?"
Laura: (whispers) Lots and lots of spiders. Is that going to make noise?
Matt: (whispers) "I don't know. I haven't been in this chamber before."
Laura: Perhaps we should deal with the spiders before we make noise, or maybe just be prepared. In fact, you know what? I'm going to cast Spike Growth on the ground in between where they're going to have to walk through.
Marisha: Ooh, good. Smarty-pants.
Laura: Because they can't freaking see it right now, can they?
Matt: Which way?
Laura: Yeah, there, yeah.
Ashley: Both sides?
Matt: You said Spike Growth. How much does it affect?
Laura: It affects-- damn it-- I didn't put it in my thingy because I'm dumb. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
Matt: That's okay.
Orion: You're not dumb. You're a strong, smart person.
Ashley: While she's looking, could I--
Laura: Spike Growth!
Ashley: You found it.
Taliesin: Way more than arrows.
Laura: It is a 20-foot radius. That's not that much.
Matt: Okay, cool. So you can do this whole area right here is all spiky growth.
Laura: And it's hard spikes. Hard spikes and thorns.
Matt: Good to know.
Taliesin: Briar.
Sam: All right, well, I'm going to follow suit and go to the other side and cast Stinking Cloud. No, over--
Matt: Over here?
Sam: Over there, yeah.
Travis: Our side's the best! (laughter)
Matt: Go ahead and make another stealth check.
Sam: Okay. 15. 17!
Matt: 17.
Sam: That's the best stealth I've ever done.
Ashley: Well done.
Travis: Yeah, buddy.
Matt: You quietly come by and mutter under your breath your arcane ritual and all of a sudden (quiet whoosh). And what was the size of the cloud on that one?
Sam: 30 feet, I think? I think it's 30 feet. Hold on, hold on, hold on. 90 feet! Oh, that's the range.
Matt: What's the radius?
Sam: It's a 20-foot radius.
Orion: Oh, your cards are cool!
Matt: 20-foot radius, which would be-- Actually, a 20-foot radius for this would be...
Orion: Nice, they have little bard thingies.
Marisha: Oh, they're purple. Mine has like a--
Orion: Nice color diversity!
Matt: This whole area here--
Laura: Oh, nice!
Orion: (laughs) Oh, I did see this.
Matt: This whole area here is done.
Marisha: I've got like a scythe.
Taliesin: A sickle.
Matt: And you also now make a very nasty cloud in this vicinity as well. This whole area is completely marked off on both sides now.
Orion: I'd like to walk up as I see this going on. I'm going to take out my deck of illusions. I'm going to toss two cards both ways, two cards on each side. So I'm going to do this, real quick.
Laura: Question. That chamber in the center of the room, does it go all the way to the ceiling, or is it--
Matt: No, there is a gap.
Orion: Deck of illusions, everyone.
Laura: So there's a huge-- so technically, the spiders could crawl up the ceiling and drop down on us?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: In theory?
Taliesin: Why would you give him ideas like that? Just feed him irony!
Travis: Let's go.
Orion: Ten of Hearts, Yes! Joker, Queen of Hearts, and another Joker! What?!
Sam: What does that mean?
Matt: Wait, you threw--
Orion: I put two on each side.
Matt: Oh, two on each side.
Orion: Yeah. So, like, two over in the spot before all that mess over there and two are in the other mess.
Ashley: Do you want to go one up top, just in case?
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah.
Orion: So the Jokers--
Matt: Are you.
Orion: And a female version of me.
Laura: Ooh, that's awesome.
Matt: All right, so a secondary Tiberius appears right there.
Orion: (falsetto) Hello, everyone.
Marisha: You know, you make a good woman.
Orion: (falsetto) Tiberiosa.
Matt: Female Tiberius appears over on that side.
Marisha: Tiberiosa.
Orion: And then whichever side you decide, a Queen of Hearts and Ten of Hearts.
Matt: Queen of Hearts-- oh, interesting.
Travis: (falsetto) Levi-O-sa, not levio-SA.
Matt: A succubus appears over here. Winged.
Marisha: Well, that's fun.
Matt: Sorry, what was the other one that you said?
Orion: Queen of Hearts and a Ten of Hearts.
Matt: Ten of Hearts. A cloud giant on this side of the room.
Laura: What?
Orion: (explosion noise)
Ashley: Rad.
Matt: We'll use that mini for now, it's fine. All of a sudden appear, kind of translucent, their image flickering. It's not a great illusion, but it's enough where it catches some attention.
Orion: And they're positioned right before the messes of each side.
Matt: Like right there.
Orion: Yeah.
Matt: All righty. Kima's now sitting there like, (whispers) "Put the key in now?"
Sam: No, no, do it.
Taliesin: Yes, yes, go.
Marisha: Okay, you're good. Go for it, yeah.
Matt: She puts her symbol into the recess. As it does, the stone doors shift and there's a dull kind of creaking of the stone as it slides not open, but into the walls, revealing an interior that is, as the light filters in, the entirety of the wall, floor, and ceiling of this room is of the same scrolling, the same platinum/sapphire material as the outside of the building and the box that's there, except for the design seems to all filter in towards the center, like the center of a spiderweb. All the design coalesces to the center point.
Laura: Had to be a spiderweb.
Matt: It's not an actual spiderweb. There's a raised dais up in the center there, about four feet wide, about a half-foot thick. Kima kind of takes her symbol and puts it back around her neck and kind of motions like this. The two Scalebearers begin to move down, carrying the case, looking about the rest of you like--
Orion: I invisibly follow right behind the box, still keeping my illusions in check.
Matt: All right.
Ashley: Same, same, same.
Matt: Everyone holds in place?
Marisha: Yeah, I'm not going to move far away.
Ashley: Following.
Travis: As you will.
Marisha: No, no, no, no.
Matt: You're staying right there?
Marisha: Yeah, yeah, if I held-- let me shift one over, just so I'm not in Trinket's way. The other way. Yeah.
Matt: There you go. All right, so. As they enter the chamber, Kima enters as well, you guys filing in behind them, I need you all to make stealth checks.
Travis: Everybody?
Laura: Everybody?
Matt: No, Tiberius, with advantage, because you're invisible.
Liam: What kind of check?
Sam: Stealth!
Travis: Not you.
Matt: Not you, don't worry about it.
Ashley: I don't?
Matt: You do.
Orion: 17.
Ashley: Three. (laughter)
Sam: Clang, clang, clang.
Matt: So you step into the chamber, losing your footing for a moment on the smooth, kind of platinum-like ridges across the ground, and you kind of catch yourself, your plate hitting the ground with a loud (ting) sound, at which point the two Scalebearers kind of look at you--
Ashley: (whispers) Sorry! Sorry!
Matt: With a heavy sigh, and Kima goes, "Go, go, go!" They both step forward and take and place the box into the center of the room on top of the dais. As they both release the chains, the box seems to levitate on its own to the center of the room, much like how the Horn itself ascended and was kept aloft in the center of the box. The box lifts up and slowly begins to rotate on its own. As it does, you can see the sapphire bits that are ingrained on this box flash with a bright blue light and all of a sudden the blue energy spreads into the ceiling and the floor of this room and all of the blue and silver veins that are carved into this begin to glow with a similar blue light.
Sam: Cool.
Marisha: Cool.
Orion: I love light.
Matt: At which point, the doors begin to--
Sam: Which doors?
Matt: The doors you guys entered this room through begin to close.
Sam: Ah, we should leave.
Orion: I'm going to scootch.
Matt: Yeah, you guys immediately scootch out of the way. Kima darts off. Both of them turn around and start running back.
Sam: (whispers) They're going to die.
Matt: They both make it out.
Ashley: Oh! That's good.
Matt: They both manage to just squeeze through real fast as the doors slam behind.
Marisha: That would be terrifying.
Matt: At which point, you see a series of spiders beginning to try to cut around-- these here, what's the DC on your--
Sam: My spell?
Matt: Your spell, yeah.
Sam: 17, because I didn't do it through the hand cone.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: (whispers) Why?
Marisha: Should we run?
Matt: Both of these spiders get disoriented and try to find their way through the Stinking Cloud, kind of like (choking, clicking noises).
Marisha: Yeah, who's going to be back down here, theoretically.
Orion: The guards could come back.
Matt: None of them make their way through. The rest of these begin coming forward-- what's the roll they have to make for the Spiky Growth?
Laura: 14.
Taliesin: To repair the room that we broke, anyway.
Matt: 14. Both missed their save. What's the damage on that?
Laura: That's 2d4 for every five feet crossed.
Matt: They would probably be skittering around here halfway through before they changed trajectory, so-- 1d4, 2d4?
Laura: 2d4 for every five feet.
Matt: So 10d4 each.
Marisha: Nice!
Matt: They come charging around the corner rapidly (skittering noises).
Marisha: 10d4? That's cool.
Orion: Oh, nice, what?
Marisha: For her thorns.
Orion: (whispers) Sweet, thorns.
Marisha: My little sister once fell into a rose bush.
Sam: Good story.
Marisha: It was very painful.
Orion: Good story? (laughs) I once fell into a fire ant hill.
Marisha: That sucks, too.
Orion: It was very painful. I was riding my bike. It sucked.
Laura: 22.
Matt: 22. Both of these spiders stop in place, looking severely messed up and damaged and just kind of hold their ground, looking very confused. You see, crawling up over the top of this structure, one large white and bluish spider that leaps up. As this is happening, you guys are noticing that blue energy is cracking through the floor and now following the pattern across the entirety of the structure. It crawls up the walls--
Marisha: Oh.
Matt: -- and that blue energy reaches to the ceiling and illuminates it. And what you missed when you entered the room is you can see, recessed into the ceiling of this room, four large humanoid entities that are just currently held aloft, buried in the ceiling, of platinum armor.
Orion: Go.
Travis: We've got to go. We've got to go.
Matt: One of them suddenly flashes, dislodges, and (whoosh, thud), squashing the spider in the process. (yelling)
Marisha: What is that?
Matt: Just (spider screech, croak) screeching sound, the spider slowly tries to curl in place, the giant platinum golem now slamming on top and squishing on top. You see as it slowly comes to stand, each hand holding these giant platinum cleavers. You suddenly hear a voice ringing through your heads collectively: "Get out."
Laura: (whispers) We should get out!
Orion: You heard the man! You heard him! You heard him! The earrings, everybody heard him.
Sam: Wait, can we just leave the thing here with the golem?
Laura: Golems are meant to protect.
Orion: It's going to kill everything there.
Sam: Oh, then let's go.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: All right, so all of you guys start bolting out. I want everyone to go ahead and make a dexterity check.
Marisha: Okay. Yeah, sure.
Orion: 13.
Matt: All right, anyone lower than a ten?
Travis: What about on a ten?
Marisha: No.
Matt: Lower than a ten?
Orion: (quietly) We all got above ten?
Matt: Anyone? All right. You as well?
Ashley: 14.
Matt: Awesome. (laughter)
Orion: Even Pike!
Matt: You guys all come darting out of the room, except for Kima, who rolls a one. So all of you guys come running out of the room--
Sam: Kima's dead.
Marisha: Kima?
Matt: The rest of the Scalebearers come rushing out, they're no longer encumbered by the box. Kima's kind of helping everyone get by, trying to keep everyone at bay, being the hero. As she turns around, the first one comes leaping off of the structure, runs towards her and gives one giant sweep with one of its blades. Ooh, yeah, that'll hit. You see the blade streak across the front of her silver armor. She takes 24 points of slashing damage. It sends her flying back ten feet with the sheer force of it, but she manages to roll out of it, yeah! With an acrobatics check, catching herself to her feet and just keeps bolting behind the rest of you guys.
Laura: Can I see?
Matt: You now see behind two more (crash, crash) dislodging from the ceiling as the one that's charging after you is coming up the stairway. Through this, we're now going into a skill challenge as you guys are rushing out.
Laura: Oh, god.
Travis: Must go faster. Must go faster.
Sam: Skill challenge.
Marisha: Skill challenge!
Ashley: Ah, go, go!
Orion: Yeah, all right. Run for your life.
Marisha: We haven't done this in a while.
Matt: Now, as you're running to get through, there's still bits of webbing still in the way. I need everyone to go ahead and make another dexterity check.
Sam: All right, doing good.
Orion: Yes!
Taliesin: Yeah!
Marisha: Oh, okay, yeah, yeah, sure.
Orion: 21!
Laura: 25.
Taliesin: 22.
Travis: 21.
Liam: 26.
Ashley: 17?
Marisha: 11?
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: All right.
Sam: 19.
Matt: All right, as you guys are all charging up, kind of helping each other but also clamoring to get through, Kima is rushing up and you can see where one of the Scalebearers has now tripped and fallen on the stairs.
Sam: Oh, no!
Matt: She runs past, leans back to reach her hand out as the golem comes up behind--
Marisha: No!
Matt: -- with two hands, swings down with both blades.
Sam: Against Kima again?
Matt: No, this is against one of the Scalebearers.
Sam: Oh, okay.
Taliesin: Oh no.
Laura: Should I be rolling for Trinket?
Matt: I'm considering Trinket with you, so no.
Marisha: Too late, just leave them.
Laura: Okay, thank you.
Matt: We'll do that next round because I forgot. There's a lot of things to consider. One of them hits the stone and just streaks off, sparks flying through the air, illuminating the space secondarily. However, the other Scalebearer takes 28 points of slashing damage from the blow. As it reaches up again for a second blow, Kima reaches down and grabs Desona's arm and lifts her up off her feet and they both go charging forward. You guys make your way up the stairway as you see now the golem pushing its way through.
Orion: I'm going to dissipate my card illusion and I'm going to cast Fly on myself, so I'm hovering.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: How much of a gap is there between the last trailing-behind Scalebearer and the golem?
Matt: Well, now that Kima's got them, they're rushing up and there's about a ten-foot, 15-foot gap now.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: I'm going to turn around and do Wall of Stone. Boof!
Matt: Okay. As they rush past, a wall of stone slams up as the golem goes smashing into it--
Orion: I'll do support. I'll do Obelisk right behind it, too.
Matt: All right. So as you guys come rushing up to the top of this, you guys are just doing the stone wall, obelisk, obelisk, obelisk. We'll say you cast it twice to go ahead and reinforce.
Marisha: Boof!
Matt: All right, you hear the impact from behind. You hear stone crack and break and you see two of the pillars that you put up impact, dust and bits of rock shoot out, but it settles. Apparently it's holding strong and you start hearing slamming of some sort of heavy weight behind it.
Marisha: Right, run.
Matt: As well as the following of additional giant heavy footsteps. It's now got its reinforcements caught up to it. You guys charge into the room with the broken trap, which now has partially raised platforms. You're rushing around and trying to find your way through. You get to the other side of the room. There's now an entirety-- a room filled with mist in front of you.
Laura: (gasps) Oh no.
Marisha: I still have it. I can Gust of Wind. That's my last 3rd-level spell.
Matt: Okay. All right, Gust of Wind. I'm going to ask all of you guys to make a wisdom check as you rush through.
Marisha: Including me?
Matt: Everyone.
Sam: Wisdom check or saving throw?
Matt: This is a wisdom check.
Marisha: Just adding your wisdom?
Ashley: Natural 20!
Laura: What what!
Matt: Nice!
Ashley: 24.
Marisha: Saving throw or just your ability modifier?
Orion: 12.
Matt: Ability modifier.
Taliesin: Oh.
Marisha: Okay, 16.
Orion: I thought it was negative three.
Sam: Ten. Ten for me.
Taliesin: 14.
Laura: 13.
Liam: Nine.
Travis: Two.
Sam: Nine, wow.
Matt: All of you guys are pushing through. So, as you guys come rushing in you're like, go go! You see Keyleth's focusing and getting the wind to escape, Keyleth rushes up, Kima comes through with the two Scalebearers, everyone comes through, Grog's bringing up the back. You can see now, in the back behind him, a giant blade-wielding fist as the golem comes smashing through the wall. The rest of you guys, ushering Grog along, Grog comes running, hears the sound, looks over his shoulder and in the chaos of it, his trajectory is off and he ends up brushing into the side of the mist.
Laura: Oh, no!
Matt: Grog, go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Travis: 12.
Matt: You end up taking 24 points of fire damage as the pillars spin, unleashing a torrent of flame.
Travis: No, bad car wash, bad car wash!
Marisha: (laughs) Bad car wash.
Laura: Oh, no, Grog, your beard has been singed.
Orion: Oh!
Travis: What? (laughter)
Matt: You reach up instinctively, you feel it's as smooth as a baby goliath's face. (laughter)
Orion: All that work!
Matt: As you guys charge up the rest of the staircase--
Orion: Is Grog behind us now, like the furthest away?
Matt: He's just caught up to you guys as you're rushing up the staircase. You get to the final door. You exit. As Kima rushes everyone through, she brings out her holy symbol real fast, and as she pulls it off her neck, you see the first golem reach the bottom of the staircase. It begins looming up--
Orion: We're leaving! What are you doing?!
Marisha: Yeah, go home! Go home! Bad golem.
Taliesin: I take a--
Matt: Kima takes out her holy symbol and holds it aloft in front of her and says under her breath (murmurs), at which point it begins to glow with this extremely vibrant glow. As it does, you see a symbol emblazoned on the front of the golem and it flashes with light as it stops and just kind of holds its place-- and waits. And Kima looks at the symbol like "I wasn't sure that was going to work." She takes--
Orion: Tell it to go kill the spider.
Matt: She takes the symbol and puts it back in the side of the stone door that originally was closed. The doors slowly seal shut once again. She pulls the symbol out-- and she falls to her knees, breathing heavily.
Sam: Oh, Kima.
Marisha: We did it!
Travis: Next time, lead with that.
Orion: I agree, Grog. Very well said.
Matt: "It kind of happened very quickly, I'm sorry."
Ashley: All right, do some people need to be healed?
Taliesin: Oh, dear.
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Kima, for sure.
Orion: I'm actually okay.
Marisha: I'm all right. I'm all right.
Taliesin: I'm fine.
Sam: Oh, Grog's got a burnt face.
Travis: No, I want to wear this pain as a remembrance of my beard.
Laura: You can grow it back, Grog.
Orion: It's okay, big fella.
Matt: You make your way back up to the main chamber, where High Bearer Vord is currently waiting for you.
Sam: Oh, this guy.
Matt: He turns to you as you enter. "So I am to assume that your journey was a success?"
Orion: Yes, surprisingly so. It went off without a hitch. Well, no.
Laura: You've got some good security down there.
Marisha: Very good.
Matt: "I told you. Once it's instilled, it will be safe."
Laura: A little warning next time would be great.
Ashley: 25 points of healing.
Matt: There you go.
Orion: You're really a girl on fire now.
Marisha: That really heals me up, then.
Taliesin: That will top me off very nicely.
Marisha: I'll take that.
Orion: Well done, everyone, by the way.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: That could've gone worse.
Marisha: It could have gone worse.
Matt: At which point, the High Bearer Vord kind of raises his hand. "Yonn, if you do not mind." And Yonn kind of shuffles forward.
Sam: Yonn.
Orion: Such a bore.
Marisha: Yawn.
Matt: "Excuse me, I'm right here."
Orion: It was a play on words. Your name also means something that you do when you're tired.
Marisha: Yeah!
Matt: "I don't like you." (laughter)
Matt: He reaches out and puts a big old sack of coins in your hands.
Laura: Oh! I'll hold onto that.
Orion: Of course.
Taliesin: We should mention, you may have to have one of the rooms repaired.
Orion: I take a couple out.
Taliesin: The spinning column--
Sam: Circle of death.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: May have gotten--
Laura: A little broken. We thought were maybe just disarming it but I think we probably broke it.
Taliesin: We put an arrow into it.
Travis: (tearfully) If you find the remnants of a glorious beard, preserve it.
Laura: Oh, Grog, actually--
Travis: What?
Laura: I've got some remnants of a lovely beard. And I try to smush it onto his chin.
Travis: It is not the same.
Matt: It is not the same.
Laura: It looks pretty good.
Matt: It is not the same.
Laura: Dang it.
Matt: At which point, the High Bearer turns to you, Pike. "Mighty cleric, I see this meeting, though it escaped my vision before, that you bear the holy sigil of the Dawnflower, the Lady of Redemption Herself. While we may walk under different stars, I offer these words that caught my ear naught but a week ago. In an excavation beneath the toppled tower of Syrac, the long-cursed ruin that sat like a blemish upon this city for hundreds of years, it was revealed that perhaps the five holy paths that began here at Vasselheim, there may indeed now be a sixth."
Sam: What?
Matt: "A forgotten temple to Sarenrae has been uncovered. Crumbled, lost, and without light, it sat, forever and a day, and few are around in this city of her guiding flame to recover and restore its glory. Perhaps you should look into it."
Ashley: I will gladly look into it.
Matt: "The ruin lies to the west of here, at the base of the city's mountain. Look for the dark stone ruin. Nevertheless, I thank you for your time. Kima, if you wouldn't mind, we have some things to discuss as well."
Marisha: Oh, quick, Vorg--
Matt: "Vord. High Bearer Vord."
Marisha: Vord.
Taliesin: Vord.
Laura: Highbearer Vord.
Matt: "Was that so hard? Yes?"
Marisha: Vord? You wouldn't have happened to hear of maybe a druid tribe called the Fire Ashari? They call their little hometown Pyrah. Do you happen to know, maybe?
Matt: He gives you a keen look and says, "There has been talk of a rogue band of druids, not more than two day's travel, in the-- let's see, where did I put the maps here?" He thinks to himself for a moment, considering it. "Towards the Sunder Peak Mountain Range. Dangerous territory, fraught with volcanic activity. Yet these folks seem to call it home."
Marisha: Is Sunder Peak like west or east to where we--
Matt: "Southwest of the city. It's hard to miss."
Marisha: Southwest.
Matt: "Look for the plumes of sulfurous smoke."
Laura: Is the temple to Sarenrae on the way to the--
Matt: "The temple to Sarenrae is on the same mountain that this temple is built on."
Laura: Oh.
Matt: "To the west of here. Follow the mountain base."
Marisha: Oh. So we can stop there first?
Orion: Yes, it's close, it seems.
Laura: All of us can--
Orion: Before we part, you seem to be quite learned about many things that I am not. Have you ever heard of anything called the God's Hammer or the Pale Stone? Or any particular artifact, Ropes of Mercy, perhaps?
Matt: "I can't say I have, unfortunately."
Orion: Of course.
Matt: "But I shall keep this in mind, should the information come my way."
Orion: Thank you. I bow.
Matt: He gives you a look, a quick glance, and notes: "For the record, while your color is not what it was when you first entered, know that the great Platinum Dragon sees through this guise to the heart beneath."
Orion: Yes, thank you for noticing. I agree with the same sentiment. And I bow in the Draconic fashion.
Matt: "Well, Kima. Business. Thank you all very much." And he kind of lends his hands out. As he extends his hand, the doors on the opposite side of the room open up.
Laura: Magic. Thought it was banned.
Matt: For the sake of brevity, because we have people who have to leave on this, very soon, it doesn't take you long to find your way across the city. You find some of the city's Bastions standing guard on the outskirts of this crumpled tower ruin. It's like, black and soot-covered stone that looks like a plot of land that has been left untouched. Like, once it fell, no one wanted anything to do with it. You speak with the Bastions and they eventually let you through, especially given the aid of those you've walked with since arrival. You come to the ruin and you can see there's about a 40-foot gap in this pile of stone that is a recess in the ground, almost like a small sinkhole. It looks like there is some sort of excavation that has been set here. Very haphazard. There is very simple wood boards that have been placed into the side of this small sinkhole to allow relatively comfortable, though a bit rickety, descent into the structure. As you make your way down, your eyes adjust to the little bit of daylight that spills into this dark subterranean cavern. There before you, you see a surprisingly glorious sight: a simple structure of brass and polished limestone, ancient as the day is long. One of the walls has partially collapsed, and you see what looks like three figures rummaging through the debris. An older human woman, who is being helped by two others: a young man of blond hair and simple clothes and an older gnome that's carrying a crutch under his arm. They're all in the process of collecting and setting aside and cleaning up various things that have been recovered from this temple. You immediately see against the brass structure the very simplified symbol of the wings of Sarenrae, multiple times across the structure in various incarnations. This is very much indeed a lost temple of Sarenrae.
Laura: (whispers) Wow, Pike.
Ashley: (whispers) Wow.
Sam: So, when you've fully excavated it, you can come back and check it out.
Ashley: Yes...
Orion: Or you can stay here and restore it.
Matt: At which point, the older woman sees you guys walk down and says, "Please! There's nothing to take. Nothing but history and rock, I guarantee you. Bandits are not welcome here."
Ashley: No no no! I take out my symbol and I say, no no no, I'm here to help.
Matt: You can hear an audible gasp from her. She says, "My eyes don't deceive. Oh my, I am sorry. My name is Gesyra, a simple painter, but one of, as far as I know, the three devoted to the Lady of the Everlight here in Vasselheim. And now a fourth. I don't know where you came from, but would you stay with us for a bit and help us rebuild? Bring her name into the light amongst the others here in Vasselheim? Restore it to its glory?"
Ashley: (tearfully) Yes. Oh, man, I don't want to leave you guys.
Matt: "It shouldn't take long, especially with your help. And we can bring the light into the heart of others." And you can see the two other kind of joined her at the side and they all look at you with this look of hope that you can probably tell from the crinkles in their face they haven't had in quite some time. And they look up to you in their simple clothes as the first true strong bastion for Sarenrae that they've seen in a long time. With that, Pike, you get to turn to the rest of the group.
Ashley: Well, I think this is a pilgrimage I have to take. So, Vox Machina, keep your eyes out. I will contact you every once in a while if I can, and we will meet up once this is completed. All in.
Travis: Right.
Ashley: Vox Machina on three. One, two, three.
All: Vox Machina.
Orion: (tearfully) You will be missed very much, Pike.
Ashley: I'm going to miss you guys very much.
Matt: And on that note, we have to close because people are in a rush. Yeah, Ashley will be leaving us for a time. She's going to New York for a few months to shoot a web-- a television series. (laughter)
Sam: A little web series.
Matt: A wonderful television series she has recurring. We're really happy and proud of her-- we're just a jumble of emotions under the circumstances.
Ashley: You guys have been so amazing and have made this experience even better for us, and thank you so much for going with us on our journey. It will keep going, but I will be back when I can.
Orion: You will be back.
Laura: You'll be back.
Taliesin: You'll be back.
Orion: She will be back.
Ashley: But it might be a long time.
Matt: Yeah, she'll pop in and out if she can, and there will eventually be a return of Pike, but for the time being she feels the calling to stay and help rebuild this temple of Sarenrae.
Marisha: We're going to miss you, Pike.
Ashley: I'm going to miss you guys.
Marisha: But we understand personal journeys.
Ashley: Personal journey.
Travis: You have a good time.
Ashley: I will.
Sam: Pike, I, Scanlan, will not physically wait for you, but emotionally-- (laughter)
Sam: Emotionally I will wait for you, and I will not stray emotionally. I will always be there for you emotionally.
Ashley: Okay, Scanlan.
Sam: But physically, I mean, come on, it's going to be months.
Matt: Thank you so much, Ash. We're going to miss you but we'll tabs and we'll have you back soon.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: All right. Thank you all so much for watching. Everyone give Ashley love on the Twitter, on the internet.
Travis: Good going, Ashley!
Matt: And we'll see you guys at Comic-Con next week. Those that'll be at Anime Expo, I'll be there tomorrow for a couple of panels.
Zac: Buy those shirts!
Sam: Oh, yeah, buy the shirts.
Matt: Six more days for the Critical Role shirts before they go away.
Laura: Hey, it's still got Pike on it, you gotta get it now.
All: Yeah.
Sam: Collector's edition.
Ashley: Definitely limited edition.
Matt: All right, guys, thank you and have a wonderful evening, we've got to let these guys go. We'll see you-- me and Marisha will see you in three weeks.
Orion: See us at Comic-Con.
Marisha: We'll see you at Comic-Con.
Matt: The others will see you in two. All right. Have a wonderful night, guys.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Welcome back to Critical Role this week, ladies and gentlemen, where a bunch of us awesome voice actors get together and play Dungeons and Dragons weekly. We have the return of some of our fantastic guests from last week, but we'll get to them in just a second. But first, let's go ahead and get you started with our fancy intro. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back! (giggles) Welcome back. We got most everyone here right now. Travis is on his way. He flew all the way from Alaska, and thanks to some delays-- weather and everything-- he's getting here as fast as he can, so we may have a Grog arriving a little late during today's session.  Pretty late for today's session. But in the meantime, our illustrious Laura Bailey will be controlling Grog.
Laura: (Grog voice) I would like to rage!
Matt: Excited for that prospect. It should be a lot of fun. So also want to thank you again, our invited guests returning for their second week. We have Felicia Day and Mary Elizabeth McGlynn. Thank you, guys.
Mary: Pleasure is mine.
Laura: Pleasure.
Mary: Pleasure.
Felicia: Pleasure. I smell like peanut butter.
Matt: That's delightful.
Felicia: That's why I smelled my fingers earlier.
Mary: Is this a normal thing, or just today?
Felicia: I just was like, hi! (sniffs)
Sam: That's normally how people greet me.
Felicia: If you smelled like grape jelly, we would be BFFs! Anyway, hi.
Matt: So welcome back. Well, cool. Before we get into it, a couple of quick announcements. One. For every 100 subs that we get during the show tonight, we'll be giving away our packages that include a picture of the Critical Role cast, signed, a Player's Handbook for Dungeons and Dragons, signed by the cast of Critical Role. We'll also be giving away a copy of Felicia's awesome new book that she's about to go on a book tour for. (cheering)
Sam: And it doesn't look like some self-published thing, that looks like a real-- whoa!
Felicia: Not to insult self-published things, but it's legit. There is a sparkle on my dress. That is a very high-class sparkle.
Sam: Does it have a barcode on it?
Felicia: That is an android, that's why I look so trim there. Yeah, but the book's coming out on Tuesday! So I'll be going on book tour, so if you guys want to come see me, I'm going to 12 cities. Sorry Midwest. I'm sorry. You're so angry at me. Anyway, thank you, yeah.
Matt: Awesome, cool, well you guys get some copies of that coming through. We also have a bunch of other random goodies we'll be throwing in with these packages that include other awesome DND stuff and comics and it'll be a little surprise, so for every 100 subscribers, we'll be giving one of those packages away, so that'll be fun. Also wanted to do a quick announcement for one of our friends recently put up a project here. Marisha, if you want to do the intro.
Marisha: Yes! Hi everybody. Okay, so. Boonzy Arts-- they make geeky candles. They have a Kickstarter right now called Wheel of Flame, and they're making essentially DND thematic immersive candles that smell like the environments that you're in! This one is Dragon's Lair and it's smoky and musky.
Matt: We're going to be lighting this tonight.
Laura: Is there moldy dungeon smell?
Marisha: They're coming out with a few more because their Kickstarter's doing pretty well.
Matt: Basement tavern refuse candle.
Taliesin: Ogre's nest.
Marisha: I think they're making a tavern one.
Sam: Bed crap? (laughter)
Matt: That's a Critical Role exclusive. The Scanlan offshoot.
Marisha: Yeah, I think they have one that's Elven Forest, that smells like a forest and they have one that's Sorcerer's Lair, that smells like sage and stuff. But yeah, Wheel of Flame is their Kickstarter. Go check them out, I know they have a limited amount of candles they can give out. Also, there's a d20 hidden in every candle, so when the wax melts, you get a d20!
Laura: That's lovely.
Marisha: So yeah! Check them out. Wheel of Flame.
Matt: Great. Thank you, Marisha. (cheering)
Matt: So much flame. So yeah, for all you guys who pay the extra subscription dollars for the smell-o-vision twitch stream, you will be able to also experience the sensory death of the party.
Laura: Why would you say that?
Matt: You guys picked it. But yeah, so that's actually pretty cool. Hopefully there's not a flammable d20 in there somewhere. That would be problematic.
Felicia: That was weird.
Sam: That happens all the time.
Felicia: Is it really just random kiss-bys? Drive-by kiss?
Matt: Two weeks in a row. We already have a winner?
Zac: PrimeJohn1.
Matt: PrimeJohn1 is our first winner! Congratulations, PrimeJohn1.
Sam: PJ Uno!
Felicia: Did you have to rename him?
Sam: Well, I gave him a nickname to the nickname.
Felicia: That's really adorable. It's a sub-nickname.
Sam: A sub-nick! (laughter)
Felicia: It'll eventually just be like (grunts).
Matt: Awesome, so let's go ahead and jump in here. Anyone else have any other announcements they want to say before we get into the game?
Laura: Travis and I will be in Vancouver next weekend. Not this coming weekend, but the weekend after. But we're not going to be here next week, so yeah, should say that.
Matt: Awesome, so in Vancouver?
Laura: It's a con. And you should come say hi.
Matt: In Vancouver.
Laura: In Vancouver. Go look at my Twitter. You'll see what it is about.
Matt: There you go. Vancouver convention. Laura and Travis; it's going to be awesome. Also, me and Marisha are flying out early morning tomorrow to a convention called AkaiCon that's over in Tennessee, so we'll be there this weekend. So if any of you guys are over there on the eastern seaboard and that vicinity that want to come say hi and hang out with us for the weekend, we have a bunch of fun panels and stuff, so. AkaiCon. Come say hi.
Felicia: That smells delicious. I want to eat it. Or is that you? No, it's not you.
Sam: No, I rubbed peanut butter all over my chest. (laughs)
Matt: Homeopathic VapoRub, really.
Sam: Oh wow, I do smell it now. Yeah, that's nice.
Taliesin: Nothing fun right now.
Felicia: Does it smell like ogre butt, because isn't that what we're doing? Troll butt?
Matt: Oh, and I also wanted to give a big thanks out to Obsidian! They actually approved my use of the Pillars of Eternity soundtrack in our music for the show. So now I'll be able to use elements of their soundtrack for our game, so thank you guys. And I guess, let's get into this game. So. Where we left off. Our party of adventurers, Vox Machina, had broken a few rules in the city of Vasselheim and had actually infracted upon a contract for a guild of creature hunters known as the Slayer's Take. And this group essentially told Vox Machina that either they could go and be arrested for this and put on trial for breaking the law, or they could go and join the guild, as such could be included and written onto the contract and everything would be fine. So they decided to go that route. They inquired with the Huntmaster, and she basically told the party that they could join after they went through a trial where they had to complete a contract. However, she hand-chose and divided the party into two separate, smaller groups. The first group being the one that began playing with us last week, in which we had the illustrious Scanlan, Percy, Vex, and Grog paired up with two new adventurers, one of which was Zahra the tiefling warlock, who also is a prospective interested person to join the guild, the Slayer's Take, and Felicia's character, Lyra, the human wizard, who somehow became a member of the guild and is assigned on her first-ever excursion to lead this group towards the end of their contract. Now, you the audience chose the creature which they were going to hunt, and you voted on an adult white dragon. So they've been hunting that.
Laura: I didn't realize the audience chose that.
Felicia: Thanks, guys. (laughter)
Matt: So after stalking your way up the Glasswalk Road to the north of the city of Vasselheim, through the Vesper Timberlands, through the cold weather as you continue to travel northward on the word of a crazed gentleman in a tavern somewhere who supposedly saw a dragon, you managed to knock over your flask. You managed to see such a dragon skulking through the skies and actually attacking near where you were staying. While you were sleeping, a group of orcs and some ogrish creature and a dire wolf, attacked your group, you managed to slaughter the encroaching evils, rather rapidly in a daring display of butt-flap long-john Percy. (laughter)
Matt: Some majestic combat prowess you guys managed to completely eliminate. You interrogated one of the orcs before Grog decided to take his head off. It pushed you north, north-west direction within the forest itself. You managed to come upon what looked to be a perpetual blizzard that was blowing around this mountain range, and the dragon was sighted again taking its rest to the north part of this mountain. You pushed through the forest, managed to avoid a few possible dangerous situations, thanks to your ranger guiding you through her favored terrain, eventually coming upon the base of this mountain range. Now, you looked above and you saw what looked like the entrance to a cavern where at least the dragon seems to fly in and out of. It's a ways up the mountain, and there was a smaller cavern towards the base of the mountain. You went to inquire what was in there, at which point out of nowhere, a giant rock made of solid ice and stone was flung out of the forest, slamming into Vex, knocking her onto her ass and doing a decent amount of physical damage.
Laura: 30. 30 points.
Matt: 30 points physical damage to the ranger, at which point two frost giants seemed to, one coming out of that cavern, another seemed to be stalking through the woods, approached the party and that is where we left off. So to begin this, I would like everyone to roll initiative.
Felicia: But they're friendly. They look friendly.
Sam: Let's try reasoning with them. Whoa! That's not bad
Felicia: I'm not going to go last this time! (gasps)
Sam: There's a lot of gasping going on.
Felicia: It's not horrible but it's not (sharp gasp).
Matt: All right, so.
Sam: Wait, does Travis not--
Matt: Roll for Grog.
Laura: Roll for Grog.
Matt: Roll for Grog's initiative.
Laura: I rolled 18 for me. Oh, that's good. 19 for Grog.
Matt: All right, so we have 25 to 20, anyone?
Taliesin: 28.
Laura: What?!
Sam: He rolled a natural 20.
Taliesin: I rolled another natural 20.
Laura: Those dice are magic.
Taliesin: I sacrificed a small child to these dice.
Matt: So Percy's up first. Anybody else above 20?
Felicia: I rolled a 20, but I have a negative two initiative.
Matt: Okay. 19 or 18?
Laura: 19 for Grog. 18 for Vex.
Matt: And also for Lyra.
Felicia: 18 buddies.
Matt: (chuckling) That's sweet. So 15 to ten?
Sam: 15.
Laura: These are pretty good initiatives.
Mary: 13.
Sam: Hey, then we're all above 13, it's pretty good! This bodes well.
Mary: I have no initiative whatsoever. (laughter)
Matt: All right, that'll do. So at the top of the round as one giant has pulled itself out of the cavern and begins shouting over in Giant about the intruders. The secondary one that comes stalking out of the forest, both of them with these giant axes that are currently held on the side of leather belts (roars) give a bellowing scream and go charging into the fray. At the top of the round, though, Percy is ready. What have you got?
Taliesin: What is that strange orange thing, right here?
Matt: This is actually a tree.
Taliesin: That's a tree. Okay, good. So that's cover?
Matt: Yeah. This rock and these boulders here have some cover, but from a giant who has a very large perspective maybe not as much as you'd think.
Taliesin: Okay, so is there any way I can maybe get some partial cover right over here?
Matt: You could move over this way, yes.
Taliesin: Yeah. So I've got cover from the tree from this one until he moves, but I can see this guy?
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: It is Bad News time! I'm going to bust out Bad News and take a shot.
Matt: All right, so. Rip out Bad News, uses one of your attacks, second attack prepares it. You're ready to fire, go ahead and shoot.
Taliesin: All right. They're pretty big, so I'm going to take the negative five to my attack bonus and see what that does. That's a 21.
Matt: 21 will hit.
Taliesin: That's a good shot. Oh yeah! That's 17, 27, plus-- 33 points of damage.
Matt: 33 points of damage? Nice. So you hear this loud, ringing explosion that echoes through this small valley at the base of the mountain, and from out the corner of your eye, it's the first time you've seen this weapon do its wonders. You see a flash of light, a plume of smoke goes up and you see this impossibly fast blast of some projectile go slamming into the shoulder of the giant over here that's currently reaching for a rock. It pushes him back against the wall, which prevents him from falling over and he catches himself. Looks back, and you can see there's a small crater in the armor where a little bit of blood begins to pour out, and a little bit of smoke seems to be pouring out of the impact. (snarls and yells) Gives out a really angry yell. You can see like spittle that begins to shake loose and spray from his mouth out of frustration. That the end of your turn?
Taliesin: That is the end of my turn. Yeah. I am now going, maybe I shouldn't have done that. (laughter)
Felicia: It was very impressive. It was very impressive.
Matt: All right, Grog's up first.
Laura: (Grog voice) Grog--
Sam: (Grog voice) Would like--
Laura: (Grog voice) No, Grog doesn't want to Rage! Grog shouts out in Giant, wait! My giant masters were killed by a white dragon, which we think is here. Will you help us fight him?
Matt: Okay. So as Grog stands there, shouting this out to both sides to the two giants, I want to have Grog go ahead and roll a persuasion check.
Laura: Okay. I am going to use Grog's dice.
Matt: Yes. Let's do this proper. This is customary.
Laura: It is proper. Wait. Okay. That's not his, that is mine.
Taliesin: (Grog voice) I would like to negotiate.
Laura: Okay. Well that is good. He is really happy that I am playing him, because I rolled a one for Grog.
Sam: It might work. (laughter)
Laura: I think I should not-- okay. Wait!
Mary: Doesn't Grog get two actions or no?
Laura: That's his action.
Matt: He is not putting up any aggressive action.
Laura: Does he get advantage, however, because he is speaking Giant and he's in the cold?
Matt: No. (laughter)
Matt: Because you have an entire band of seemingly advancing and armed individuals that are currently stalking towards what appears to be the home of these individuals. So unfortunately no. They seem unfazed, and the one at the back seems almost partially amused at this plea and you can see as he takes his axe and puts it up against his shoulder and runs it across the leather in a very aggressive, intimidating fashion as he stalks forward out of the forest.
Laura: (Grog voice) Can Grog move at all?
Matt: Yeah, would you like Grog to move? It would be easier.
Laura: (Grog voice) Where is he?
Matt: He is right here. He is hard to miss. Where would you like Grog to move? There is a giant rock there.
Laura: He is going to stay there.
Matt: Okay. Grog is going to stay up against the rock. His axe across the front. Right, that ends Grog's turn. Vex, you're up. (laughter)
Laura: A moment of silence for that horrible thing I just witnessed.
Matt: You are over here. You just got up off the ground after being slammed with a boulder, and you have Trinket there.
Laura: I am very hurt. Can I get up? Am I prone?
Matt: In the process you've gotten to your feet as they lurched forward and began shouting at each other about the intruders. So you are on your feet.
Laura: Okay. I am going to cast Hunter's Mark.
Matt: Hunter's Mark. On?
Laura: On the one that took a little damage already. And then I am going to shoot him. All these are for like really large groups of people. I am going to shoot him three times. Can I shoot him three times?
Matt: You have two attacks.
Laura: I'm going to shoot him two times. This was good times. This was fun, you guys. 14 for that. That probably doesn't hit. 14 also doesn't hit the second time. Oh my god! What is happening?! (laughter)
Sam: She just disappeared!
Mary: Vex! Vex, stay with us! Vex!
Matt: So as you get to your feet, you look over your shoulder, you point your finger out and as you squint down, you use your ranger focus to make sure this guy is your quarry, and you take a quick scope of his body parts. You're like, those are the areas that will make him weakest. As you go to pull your arrow, you can feel a kink in your shoulder. The impact of the rock seems to have affected you. You release the first arrow and it's just slightly off mark. The second one you pull back and as you release it, it actually splinters off his shield as he knocks it out of the air.
Laura: I am going to run over to cover. What is that other side?
Matt: That is one of the mountain outcroppings.
Laura: Yeah, I am going to hide in that little thing and go, Trinket hide with me.
Matt: Okay, Trinket moves up. (bear moan) All right, and that's your turn.
Laura: That's all of it.
Matt: (laughs) All right, Lyra, you're up.
Felicia: Okay, I am freaked out right now. These are very large individuals. I have only read about them, and they smell slightly like feet. So I am going to-- that is a stench. That is like an athlete's foot commercial waiting to happen. So I am going to take 10d6 and do Disintegrate.
Matt: Go for it.
Felicia: I mean, it seems excessive, but they're very large men! One, two, three, four, five-- That one, he looks like a bull. In the nether-regions.
Matt: So which one, this one or this one?
Felicia: I don't think I can reach that guy.
Matt: What's the distance on it?
Felicia: Oh boy.
Matt: At your spell sheet.
Felicia: I should've written that down. Disintegrate. Oh, there it is! 60 feet.
Matt: 60 feet? Yeah, they're both within range.
Felicia: Oh gosh, well I should probably hit the wounded one. That always makes RPG sense, right?
Matt: So for that one, do you have to make an actual spell attack roll?
Felicia: No, I don't. I think it's force damage.
Matt: That's right. You just point at it and he has to roll a saving throw.
Felicia: Oh yay! Look at that! Six! Six! Six!
Sam: Well, don't say that. (laughter)
Matt: All this time trying to fight the stigma of DND, and there we go.
Mary: Talking to my people here!
Felicia: All right. That's 20 plus-- now you're all staring at me! 30, 40 points of damage!
Sam: Whoa!
Matt: That's a total of 40? Plus 40?
Felicia: 40 plus 40.
Matt: Yeah, Disintegrate. And he failed his saving throw.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Felicia: In your anus! That's what she yells, she's like, in your anus!
Matt: So as she shouts, she points her finger out, there's a little poof of arcane energy on her finger, and a tiny, sickly green ray of energy just streaks forth from her finger. The giant looks at it awkwardly, and in the split second it hits him in the front of his chest and suddenly the armor in front of him turns to dust and you can see his flesh beginning to just disappear in front of him (gasps) and suddenly tries to gasp for air, as you see part of its jaw beginning to just turn to sand, and it's actually struggling in a series of pain, and it's still standing, but you can see a large part of its body now is just missing. It looks like it got-- it's almost like a portion of it rotted right before you, but there's no actual necrosis. It's just gone. Flesh is missing from a large part of its body. It looks like it's doing really poorly. It lurches forward, and one of its arms is not working as well and it looks at you with a look of confusion, frustration and "how could you?." It's incredulous in its torturous pain.
Felicia: And I go, (gibberish) in Giant and it's the only thing I know in Giant, and I think it says, you are my foe, and I actually say, my cat is your friend.
Matt: Its head turns even further to the side as the tongue lolls out of where the cheek once was.
Felicia: Take that!
Matt: (chuckles) Its angry white eyes glaring aggressively at you. Do you wish to move, or would you like to stay where you are?
Felicia: Oh, I think I'm going to duck behind that little outcropping I have.
Matt: Over here?
Felicia: Yeah, no, behind that little rock-- oh, where am I? Oh, I'm over there. Yeah, I'm going to get-- oh boy. Just stand there, I'm just too flushed right now. I can't go anywhere. This is too situational for me
Matt: All right. Well, (chuckles) this very unhappy giant is going to reach over with his one good arm, the other one's clutching the axe, it reaches over and grabs another rock off the ground that it can find nearby and (whoosh) flings it at you.
Felicia: I should have moved! (laughter)
Matt: That is a 16. What's your armor class?
Felicia: 13.
Matt: Yeah. You, unable to really move out of the way, you look over and just watch it come toward you as it slowly spins in the air. Time seems to slow as you make no intent to shift out of the way. (whack) It slams into you, physical pain not hitting in as the immediate look of-- the sight of white, your vision is knocked to nothingness briefly. You end up taking--
Mary: No, Lyra, no.
Matt: Okay, you take 32 points of bludgeoning damage.
Felicia: Whoa! That is a very intense amount of damage for a tiny woman. Okay.
Laura: You should avoid those boulders in the future.
Matt: And as soon as you recover from it, your vision clarifies and you're able to see everything before you, and you see that same giant is stalking up, right into your face, with its axe in its bad hand. It switches it into its good hand and rears it up preparing itself for another round. That ends that giant's turn. It's going to go five, six and move in between the two of you. You guys, Zahra and Scanlan, as you see this happening you hear the (heavy steps) heavy footfalls behind you, and you look over your shoulder as the second giant comes up with the shield in one arm. Axe is going to go ahead and giant swing towards the two of you. That is going to be a 19 to hit on you, Scanlan.
Sam: Oh yeah.
Matt: And Zahra, that is going to be a-- that's a 25. All right. (laughter)
Matt: 27 points of slashing damage to you, Scanlan. Ooh. All right. And that is 31 points of slashing damage to you, Zahra. As it just (whack), cleaves through the both of you. You are almost knocked off your feet from the sheer blow. Most of the armor takes the damage but you can feel a heavy bruise, and underneath your armor you can feel a little bit of the blood beginning to soak through from the severe impact. Part of the armor plating might have cut into part of your torso (grunts) but you right yourself there. That ends their turn. That brings us to Scanlan.
Sam: Okay. Hey, question. If I hold a turn, do I hold the whole turn? Can I hold my action but do the bonus action? How does it work?
Matt: You got to take all your turn at once. You can hold your initiative. Meaning you can wait to activate your turn later in the tier, but you can't piecemeal your actions.
Sam: Okay, then I am going to just move. I am going to act. I am going to do things. So I turn to the guy who just hit me, and I am going to cast Dominate Person on him. I will sing some sort of song to dominate him with.
Matt: I will say, Dominate Person is effective against humanoids.
Sam: (gasps) Really?!
Matt: Dominate Monster would be--
Sam: They're not humanoid?
Matt: They are not. They are considered giants. They are a different species. You would know that.
Sam: I would know that. Well, then, I guess I won't do that.
Matt: You turn, and your instinct is there, and you're like, these are a little out of your reach as far as that spell is concerned.
Sam: Okay. (laughter)
Mary: It is a very short show tonight.
Sam: Yeah. Okay, well, then we just die. (laughter)
Matt: You've got options!
Sam: Yeah, no, I have options. I'll be fine. Should I go for the guy who-- I'll do (blows raspberry). I'll cast Lightning Bolt on him. That's always a good go-to.
Matt: So as you fumble with the idea of what spell would work, you release a bolt of lightning up towards it. It streaks into the front of its chest and shoulder area. You can see its muscles tense and shake from the sheer amount of electricity that courses into it. It does not make that saving throw, not with a five. So go ahead and roll your damage.
Sam: Is it six or eight?
Matt: It's 8d6.
Sam: Thank you! Okay. Six, six, four. What is that?
Felicia: Six.
Sam: Oh, really? Oh, that's awesome! Now I lost track. 32.
Matt: 32 points of damage. Nice! So as you release the torrent of electrical energy, it courses through the body and ends up streaking off into the snowy, blizzardy sky behind the giant from the upward angle. It (grunts) shakes from the impact, and then rights itself and looks down at you with a really angry face. You can see as it opens its mouth, this light blue and dark teeth on the bottom of its beard-covered jaw. Mist and steam tend to pour out of its mouth. But not like heated steam, this is like a cold air itself that it seems to emanate from it. Its pale whitish-blue hair, slightly framing its form. Up close, at its sheer size, this is a very intimidating creature, as it just stares down looming over you, now with smoke pouring off its shoulder where you impacted it with the Lightning Bolt. Do you want to do any--
Sam: I would like to inspire our new fellow, Zahra, with a quick little ditty. (singing) Ooh, you so scary, ooh, you so scary, ooh, you so scary. You fighty long time. (laughter)
Matt: All right. So you go ahead and take a d10 inspiration dice. Which means, whenever you have to roll an attack roll or saving throw, you can add a d10 to the result you get if you don't think it's going to make it. You don't roll it now, but you just have it on reserve whenever you want to use it.
Mary: Love it.
Sam: And if I move away from him he'll hit me?
Matt: He'll get an attack of opportunity, yes.
Sam: Can I snuggle between his legs and maybe he'll forget I'm there?
Felicia: He's hung like a horse.
Taliesin: You're going to hit yourself in the head
Mary: Swing on it, man. Swing on it. (laughter)
Mary: Yes! Yes, Scanlan!
Matt: Do you want to try and do that?
Sam: It might anger him? Or it might entice him. (laughter)
Sam: I'll just stay put.
Matt: All right. Zahra, you're up.
Mary: All right, I have a question. Do they understand English?
Matt: You are not aware, actually.
Laura: But he said intruder when we came in.
Matt: You heard him say it in Giant. It was understood by Grog that it was intruder.
Mary: All right. They're both within about 30 feet of me, yes?
Matt: Yes. They're both within 30 feet of you
Mary: All right! I'm going to use one of my skills that I have which it doesn't expel a spell slot and use Awakened Mind and touch them both with telekinesis, and in doing so I shall cast Mass Suggestion, and I shall say to them, you will take us to your enemy, the white dragon, and there we shall slay it together. Then you shall return us here safely, where we shall part as friends bonded forever in the slaying of a common enemy.
Matt: All right. As you're looking out at the two of them, you release this energy, speaking through your mind, reaching out to theirs. What is the DC of your spell? It should be at the top of your spell list, the difficulty class.
Sam: Spell save DC. Top right.
Laura: Spell save DC is a 17.
Matt: 17, all right. So both of them seem to--
Laura: Can you add your inspiration? Add your inspiration!
Matt: Inspiration has to be added to a roll.
Mary: My charisma is added to any spell that I cast.
Matt: Well, that's included with the DC there. So both of them reach up and grab their faces, one with its messed up, partially disintegrated hand and falls back on its back foot and both of them look at the group in confusion. There definitely seems to be some sort of interference with their current actions based on this spell; there is a conflict within them. That's as much as I can tell you right now at the moment. That's your action. Do you want to do anything else? You can still move. You still have a bonus action, if you want
Mary: What do you mean bonus action?
Matt: Your Hex is a bonus action, but that is a spell, as well.
Mary: If I move away from them though...
Laura: He can hit you.
Taliesin: If he's going to hit you. He might not.
Laura: That's true! Your spell might have worked.
Mary: I shall go and protect Scanlan, underneath the legs of that giant.
Matt: So you move in to help defend Scanlan.
Mary: He's so tiny, I love little guys. I always have.
Sam: She's a mother figure.
Matt: All right, so both of them seem to be looking around themselves, slightly confused and taking in some sort of strange circumstance. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm going to hold my turn.
Matt: Okay, Percy's holding initiative. Grog.
Laura: Should I say, in Giant, (in Grog voice) What say you? Let's fight this bastard. Together.
Matt: All right, they look at Grog, confused. Look at each other again. That's Grog's turn, Vex?
Laura: Seriously? While everybody's having a conversation, I would like to take a healing potion.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and take one of those
Laura: Okay. How much do I take for a superior?
Matt: Superior? Superior is 8d4 plus eight. It's quite a bit.
Laura: It is, so just regular healing potion for now. Which is what, 2d8?
Matt: A regular is 2d4 plus two.
Laura: Yay! That's good.
Matt: Lyra.
Felicia: I'm confused. But I do not feel good; I might throw up. So I'm going to hold my turn to see what happens.
Matt: Go ahead and make a constitution saving throw.
Felicia: Oh, good.
Sam: Oh, for the barf.
Felicia: Oh, it's a five! Constitution five. It's a ten.
Matt: You covertly do your best to not reveal to the entire group that you make a little greenish-brown snow. (laughter)
Matt: It is the most adorable barfing sound you guys have ever heard, though. The combination of the stress and the smell, it's been a harrowing experience for Lyra in these past few minutes. At this point in time, as it comes to the giants' turn. The one who is messed up looks over to the other and (sighs) puts the axe into his belt loop, and the other also one puts its axe in the belt loop, and they glare at the rest of the group, and say in Giant, (gibberish). And any of you speak Giant? Or just Grog.
Laura: Grog.
Matt: Grog translates. Essentially, they say, "We will take you but it is at your own folly."
Laura: (in Grog voice) They'll take us, but it is at our own folly.
Sam: Take us as in-- Grog, can you ask them, take us as in lead us or on their back?
Laura: (strangled gibberish) Which translates to, take us as in lead us or carry us on your back?
Matt: They both chuckle to themselves, and they start walking in towards the cavern.
Laura: Wait! Can we rest a little before we go fight this thing so we can get spell slots back and heal?
Matt: That's up to you guys.
Laura: Can we? Yes! Yes!
Felicia: Up to 24 hours. This one lasts the whole day. Yeah, can we?
Matt: It lasts for 24 hours.
Mary: Mass Suggestion lasts for 24 hours.
Sam: Oh, that is good information.
Mary: Oh and very important  none of us can damage these two giants. Anything else can, we're fine, but should any of us damage it, the spell is poof.
Laura: Are they going to fight with us? Grog? Will you ask them if they're going to fight with us? (gibberish)
Matt: How does it go, again?
Laura: (repeats previous gibberish)
Matt: Right. One of them looks over the shoulder as it's walking into the cavern and puts its hand on the top and leans over and its voice, and I will say from this point forth it is translated to make it easier.
Sam: Just like in Hunt for Red October?
Matt: Yeah basically. "We take you but that is as much as you get. The rest is your own choice. Perhaps the dragon will eat you. That'll keep it satiated for a while." It steps inside the cavern.
Laura: (Grog voice) I think that's a no.
Felicia: Yeah. And I say (speaks gibberish). My cat is your friend!
Taliesin: Bless you!
Matt: (laughs) As you say that, one walks inside. The one that you partially disintegrated earlier steps out and goes, (spitting noise) and spits a-- what in midair looks like liquid and then (shattering) shatters into almost like crystalline ice as it hits the ground on a rock.
Felicia: It is just rude. He smells so much like feet.
Sam: We'll Mass Suggest that they take a bath later.
Taliesin: Let's take a breather. For a moment, collect ourselves.
Laura: I wish I wouldn't have wasted a healing potion just then because we can take some--
Felicia: We can heal our 1d6 plus three.
Matt: So as you guys step inside the cavern. You guys are taking a short rest, currently?
Sam: Short rest.
Matt: All right, so the giants are just sitting there waiting, arms crossed against the wall, talking quietly to each other as the rest of you sit down and bandage your wounds. You tend to your adrenaline as it slowly wears off and suddenly the pain starts to set in from some of the wounds you've taken. So you guys can use as many hit dice as you want to heal yourselves.
Mary: So what do I do?
Laura: You roll a d8. You can roll up to 11d8, plus two for each time.
Sam: Hey, DM.
Matt: Yes?
Sam: How many hit points do I have?
Matt: You haven't taken damage at this point.
Sam: Have they increased at all?
Matt: That is true. You leveled up after the last one. So with this short rest I will say go ahead and roll an additional-- for a bard I think it is a d8, correct?
Sam: I don't know.
Matt: What's your hit dice number?
Sam: d8.
Matt: And what's your constitution?
Sam: 15. Plus two.
Matt: All right, so go ahead and roll a d8 plus two to it
Sam: Four.
Matt: All right, so you add four hit points to your total hit point maximum. Welcome to level 11, Scanlan. (cheering and singing Super Mario victory ditty)
Matt: You also get access to your first 6th-level spell.
Mary: What!?
Laura: What? Get some stuff before we fight a dragon, yo.
Sam: I got it already. I am ready to rock.
Matt: Good. Good choice. You take the next half an hour or so to rest up. You still used your Disintegrate. You need to do a whole night's rest to get that back.
Felicia: Oh! I don't get it? It's six spell levels.
Matt: It is six spell levels you can get back on a short rest?
Felicia: Short rest. Recover six spell levels because I have arcane recovery. So I can actually get that back
Matt: (singing) Wizards are awesome!
Laura: (Grog voice) Grog would like to take his Chain of Returning off of one of the axes he had it on and put onto the Firebrand Warhammer that he took off of that dwarf in Kraghammer.
Matt: All righty, I like it.
Laura: The mean guy he took it off.
Matt: Off of, that was King Murghol, I think, wasn't it? The duergar king you fought in the Underdark.
Mary: I have a question. So I rolled to get my health back and I got more hit points than I had before--
Matt: You can't go more than your maximum. You're at full hit points now.
Taliesin: I want to borrow Grog for just a second and ask these two if they've encountered the dragon before, and what its disposition is. Anything we should know.
Matt: I want you to go ahead, and I will say through Grog-- this is going to be interesting. Since Grog is translating, I'm going to go ahead and have you roll a persuasion check.
Felicia: Wrong dice! Why did you use that dice?
Taliesin: I was feeling weak. Ten.
Matt: Ten. And I want you to roll a persuasion check for Grog with disadvantage.
Laura: Great. Oh, that was a good roll, come on also good roll.
Felicia: It wasn't a good roll. I see a face there.
Taliesin: It was a one, wasn't it?
Laura: It was a one.
Matt: All the crits were last week.
Taliesin: This is my fault. This is all my fault.
Felicia: You are a plague. Your good fortune is a plague upon your friends.
Laura: Travis is going to be so pissed when he gets here.
Matt: I know.
Sam: He'll be dead by the time he gets here
Laura: His flight landed. I got a text. His flight has landed. He's on his way.
Matt: Great, awesome. As Grog finishes translating (gibberish) to the giants, the giants chuckle to themselves and the other one says down to him, what he translates for you, the equivalent of, "There's no help here. They killed our people, but we're alive because we serve it. We'll bring you, like we promised, like we brought all the others."
Laura: They serve the dragon?
Felicia: Can we look around? Are there any dragon tips around?
Matt: You took a rest inside the cavern as you just entered the mountain and at this point as you guys step up the giants are leading you further into the cavern.
Mary: May I talk to him, as well?
Matt: You know Giant?
Mary: No, through Grog. I have telekinesis, so can I speak to one of them?
Matt: Well, telekinesis and telepathy are different things.
Mary: Oh, I mean, I have Awakened Mind.
Matt: Oh right. So you can speak directly to their minds
Mary: Yes. Your people have been persecuted for so long, and you have lost so many of the female version of you, and your children, and you serve them now. Do you want to live as slaves?
Matt: "We want to live."
Mary: So to live as a slave is better than--
Matt: "To not live at all?"
Mary: We are offering you the opportunity to stop your servitude. To end it forever.
Matt: (grunts) They keep walking
Laura: What?
Matt: We'll see how this plays out. This is a process here. You guys heavily failed some early persuasion rolls here, they're in a very negative position with you right now.
Laura: Sorry about that.
Felicia: Let's not bring it up again. I love your hair.
Sam: It's really cool.
Matt: So about 200 feet further into this cavern, the tunnel opens up into a gargantuan natural rock chamber, coated in ice crystals across the entirety of the rounded crag in the ceiling. You can see now as the light you're bringing into-- by the way, is anyone bringing a source of light other than the torchlight?
Laura: Yes, Grog lights his blazing axe.
Mary: And I cast Light on my dark dragon staff.
Matt: All right, so between the (whoosh) now the fire that is now burning off of the warhammer and your Light spell, you can see as you enter following these giants, there are definitely the remnants of a village here, a village that was designed on the scale of these giants and while many of these structures still stand, it is eerily quiet as you step inside. As you begin to step further into the center of this cavern, you see many of these structures have been smashed and destroyed and there is a layer of ice and snow that has been carried in from various blizzard winds or just the internal temperature in this room. And the room is extremely cold. With the little bit of light you have, everyone's breath is very clearly visible with each puff into the air around, and you swear that in a few pockets here it is so cold that you can hear the moisture from your breath coalesce and then shatter on the ground. You all bundle up even tighter with your various furs.
Laura: I snuggle very close to Trinket.
Matt: Trinket snuggles very close to you because Trinket, while made for this type of temperature, is still uncomfortably cold, even at this point.
Sam: Did Lyra give me--
Felicia: I did! I gave you my stone. My Transmutation Stone, which helps you resist cold.
Sam: Wow, I feel so warm and cuddly.
Felicia: Well, don't brag about it. Oh my gosh, my mom told me never bring-- well, she's dead, but before she died, she told me if you can't bring one for everybody, don't bring any. So just be quiet about it.
Sam: Okay. I'm sorry. I was just distracted because we're in a dire situation and I miss the love of my life, Pike. I'm sure you can't identify with that.
Felicia: Oh no! I was just thinking the other day, just outside the cavern, if Aldor was here--
Sam: Aldor?
Felicia: Yes! Did I tell you about him?
Sam: A little.
Felicia: He smells like sandalwood and dismissiveness, but that's okay. We'll get over that.
Sam: Well, we have something in common then and thank you for your stone of warmth or whatever it was.
Felicia: It's a cold resistance.
Sam: I'll just call it a stone of warmth.
Matt: There is no character class more dangerous in DND than mother. (laughter)
Matt: Do not have children if you are ever in a fantasy genre or anything. You ain't getting past 30.
Mary: May I again, sorry, use Awakened Mind to ask the giant what happened here?
Matt: As they begin walking through and looking about, one of them starts giving you these images, and it's less of a language and it's more of a series of memories. And you see visions of a time not long ago. Months, even years. This relatively thriving village of frost giants that had essentially claimed this mountain as their own for generations. Hunting in the nearby Vesper Timberland, occasionally harrowing the traveling merchant band heading up the Glasswalk Path or various other entities that live in this forest. They're not by any means a good people. They exist and they take what they want, but it appears that not long ago this dragon decided that it wanted to live here instead. And you see visions of it stalking through the tunnels, carving its way through the ice and ambushing this frost giant village. You see visions of it tearing into families of them and freezing them on the spot, which is interesting because you see, these giants seem pretty well-adapted to ice and cold weather. It seems it is less of a freezing them physically and more of locking them into place. And as you see these visions, you begin to step further into this village and you can see there are spires, large spires of crystallized ice, and loosely within the shadows of the ice you can see what looks like the suffocated forms of frost giants that are locked in that position under many feet of ice. You see most of this village brought to its knees and destroyed, murdered, eaten, or imprisoned and these two, essentially chosen to survive and given the order to bring what this creature wants.
Mary: There's only two of you left?
Matt: You get this sense of sadness and fear, but also a sense of a lack of any other option.
Mary: Oh, how I wish we could release you from these bonds.
Laura: Is there a way to, like, melt the spires? (whispers) I interrupted you.
Mary: To release them.
Felicia: They are dead in there though, right?
Mary: No, I know but at least maybe they could-- Do you have some burial ritual or anything that you would like to or do these stand as a painful remembrance for you?
Matt: There is a moment where it seems almost like it's going to answer, and then the mind closes off suddenly. There is a defensiveness and these entities, you get the sense that even this tenuous relationship you have built with them is based purely on arcane persuasion, and the more you pry, the more you begin to test the boundaries of what you have done. Pick and choose your words very carefully.
Mary: Zahra sheds a tear, which freezes instantly on her face, and her internal flame melts it off.
Laura: That's pretty badass.
Matt: As you continue to walk, you can see the center of this village is completely in tatters. A lot of the wood and the dried brush and the furs and thick leathers that these giants had gathered and constructed their civilization out of is all just shattered and rended to the floor and then frozen over, left in this weird picturesque, almost a tapestry. A frozen moment in time of utter desolation. Actually, I want you to all to roll a perception check, if you could.
Taliesin: 17.
Felicia: 14.
Sam: 20.
Laura: Oh! No we're not in-- 14.
Mary: Uno.
Matt: Wow, getting the ones out. So as you guys are walking forward, Scanlan, you notice that there is, just outside the light perception stepping forward, a lot of the rubble has been pushed and coalesced into a central monolith. Almost like a 25, 30 foot sculpture of chaos. All of these things have been matted together with what looks like mud and refuse, and as you guys begin to notice this, too, you catch the framing of the light on it and it seems to be built into almost an altar or a large sculpture of worship of a winged dragon creature that is currently in the process of swooping down. You get the sensation that this was built as, essentially, a place of offering to this white dragon, and hopefully a symbol to keep themselves alive and to prove their fealty to this entity.
Felicia: I have a spell called Legend Lore. Can I cast that on white dragon?
Matt: Let's see what Legend Lore does.
Felicia: The spell brings to your mind a brief summary of the significant lore about the thing you named: current tales, forgotten stories, secret lore that has never been widely known. If it is not of legendary importance, you gain no information. Would I think that this is a legendary dragon?
Matt: Okay. As you take a moment and everyone stops to look around, you notice that Lyra is sitting there currently muttering to herself and putting her fingers through the air, and you can see these small arcane sigils begin to flash in the air where she places her hands, at which point her eyes glaze over with this shimmering gold energy and she seems to go into a trance. Now, what you first are hit with is the image of darkness, black and struggle, a struggle to push, a struggle to exist, a struggle to survive, and then suddenly light. You see the cracking of something releasing, and from there pulling forth from this singular egg, the only one left of its clutch, a white dragon wyrmling pulling itself out of the egg. This, you immediately sense, is the dragon that now resides within this mountain. You begin to see flashes in time of it struggling to survive in the frozen tundra to the north, desperately trying to escape poachers and individuals trying to hunt it, whether to protect their own villages or to use its physical body parts in some sort of sale. You get the sense that at one point it was already the target of some contract that failed. For a brief second, you see a flash of a frozen cavern recently, and a few individuals locked in an icy prison bitten down on and shattered before it cuts to black again. You begin to see moments of this dragon growing, and with each stage in its physical transformation towards becoming a full-fledged adult dragon there is just spite, there is anger, there is ego, there is a severe sense of self-importance, a lust for others to bow before, serve, or feed it. And you have heard and you have read many things about dragons and you have heard things of great intelligence and articulate entities that even, good or evil themselves, have this extremely intelligent presence. This dragon is far more feral and bestial than anything you've read about. It has an intelligence, but it seems to not be concerned with the intricacies of conversation as much as it is to bend everything to its will and to give (voices deepens) to me. (normally) And the one thing that catches your mind before the spell ends is the name that it finally came upon itself, the name that it heard whispered as one of its would-be hunters was suddenly--
Sam: Jeff. (laughter)
Matt: Jeff the dragon. The name Rimefang rings through your mind.
Felicia: His name is Rimefang.
Matt: The two frost giants stop their walking and turn. "Rimefang." They nod and look up to the giant structure they constructed.
Felicia: Oh wow! Can I make a history to sww if I know anyone in the guild who has been named Rimefang?
Matt: Make a history check on this.
Felicia: It's a 21.
Matt: Okay, Rimefang, you gather, is the name of the dragon proper. And there's another drink for you guys out there. They made fun of me for using the word proper.
Sam: Drink!
Matt: This dragon took the name Rimefang. Because in a lot of dragons as they evolve and begin to really create a lair, they really make themselves known publicly and really draw the fear out once they feel they're in a comfortable position. You feel this dragon is just starting to get to that point where it's eager to drive fear into the local populace. From your history check, you do know that there is, somewhere in the books you've gone through, a similar contract, nothing Rimefang related, but there was a white dragon that was supposedly hunted about eight, nine months back, and the team never returned. And you begin to think, "Wait, so if a team of really practiced people never returned from this contract, and we were sent on this as an entry level..."
Felicia: Hey, guys? I have a suspicion that maybe the guild didn't want us to succeed. And I don't want to panic anybody. I just don't think Vanessa--
Mary: Lyra, do you have any enemies in the guild?
Felicia: Well. Everyone seems to be very-- I make a very good soup and I help people with their laundry sometimes and--
Laura: Oh, are you like an assistant?
Felicia: No, I'm a guild member, I just like to be helpful. Like you guys.
Laura: I was just wondering.
Felicia: Well, they just don't send me anywhere. It's a paperwork thing.
Mary: If you don't mind my asking because I do respect you so much, how did your captainship of our crew come about?
Felicia: Well, I got a missive, I got a scroll in my room and the first assignment. I mean, it was very exciting to me and they haven't really paid attention to me. Mertin is very nice to me but Vanessa-- she just has her days, and I've been asking her for so long, and finally I got my assignment. I was hoping Aldor would be here, but he isn't, and that's fine. It'll be the next one. But there may not be a next one, guys. That's what I'm saying.
Mary: Oh, were you Vanessa's assistant? I mean, before you were a member?
Felicia: No. Aldor. I'm here with Aldor, remember?
Sam: If you think we've been sent on some sort of suicide mission--
Felicia: Oh, that's good, the way you put it there!
Sam: Well, I'm a master of words. Should we abandon all hope and just flee? Is that what you're suggesting as our leader? Or should we carry it through and prove everyone wrong?
Felicia: If we abandon this quest, then we never-- I could get kicked out of the guild, for one.
Laura: What happens if the contract that we magically signed doesn't ever come to fruition?
Felicia: It's not good. Let me think.
Sam: You know what? Retrace your steps.
Matt: There you go. In Memento fashion, all these things flash through. If a contract is broken, one: if you're a member of the guild, you're kicked out of the guild. Two: you guys are on this essentially as a trial basis to prevent being arrested and put on trial for breaking the laws of the city of Vasselheim and essentially hunting creatures that aren't sanctified. Or you yourself have not been sanctified to kill, which goes against guild rules and the city itself. Which means if you were to not succeed at the contract, you would probably be put on trial at the seat of judgment.
Laura: Percy is very good at lawyering.
Taliesin: I am. I lawyer quite well, but the hope is that we wouldn't actually break the contract in the first place, because that's complicated.
Mary: I wasn't part of this band of breaking the law. I'm here to gain entry into this guild.
Felicia: Well, you certainly won't get into the guild if you break the contract.
Mary: No, I completely understand, but I won't be brought to trial. Not that I'm all, "well it's all about me," but I'm serious. That's why I'm here! My motivations are not to save my ass, my motivations are to get into this bloody guild!
Taliesin: We're not here based on other people's expectations. We're here because we thought we could handle this and nothing has changed. This changes nothing!
Laura: We are very capable fighters!
Mary: I've seen this. You have proven yourselves already. Those orcs didn't stand a bloody chance.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Felicia: So we go?
Sam: We go. Well actually, Grog-- could someone ask Ace and Gary if we're there or if we have further to travel?
Felicia: We'll just keep going.
Matt: As Grog mentions this, you guys have moved past most of the village, and you've gone towards the back of this large chamber, and you do see what appears to be a tunnel that ascends upwards, deeper into the mountain proper. See, did it again. It's made me all self-conscious. But the entrance is entirely frozen. There is a wall of solid ice between yourselves and the continuation of this tunnel.
Laura: (Grog voice) How thick is it?
Matt: It's hard to see how thick it is from this side.
Laura: (Grog voice) Can Grog run at it and try to bash it really fast?
Matt: So as you guys step up, Grog runs ahead of the rest of the giants and goes as hard as he can towards this. (laughs) So swinging with the axe towards the ice. Go ahead and make an attack roll.
Laura: It's a hammer, which I feel would be better against ice.
Matt: This giant flaming warhammer from King Murghol.
Laura: I feel like every dice is betraying me.
Taliesin: Would you like to use mine?
Laura: No, I'm going to curse yours.
Matt: No, turn it around. Shake the Wil Wheaton curse.
Laura: I'll just leave it at that. It slipped out of my hands, but I'm going to keep it. 15 plus what, eight? Plus nine?
Matt: Plus nine. That'll definitely hit. Go ahead and roll damage for that.
Laura: Okay. Here we go.
Sam: I hope he can hit a wall.
Laura: I don't know, with my ones as of late. Oh, that's just ten.
Matt: Ten damage? Including the fire damage?
Laura: Oh, yes, right. 13.
Matt: 13 damage. (whack) The warhammer streaks through, the light causing this interesting shifting of the radius around it. As it smacks into the ice with this resounding (thwack) sound, the ice shakes and shimmers. A giant crack forms up the front of it, and you can see as he (grunts) pulls it out, the wall itself seems to have largely crumbled in the small space there and looks very fragile. But it's definitely left an impact on the wall.
Taliesin: I can make an attempt at this. I'm going to walk over and study the shattering position and see if I can find the weak point in the wall.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Taliesin: Seven. Getting it all out of my system now.
Matt: The ice wall itself is not a specific architectural structure. It is made of some sort of blasting of ice that froze the air in that way, so it doesn't have any real geometric positioning, but the ice structure itself, you're unable to make out what would be a weak point or not, other than the place of impact where Grog placed the hammer.
Taliesin: I'm going to take a musket ball, go over to the very center of the crack.
Laura: Should we keep a little more quiet than that?
Felicia: Can I use a Fire Bolt? That would be good, a Fire Bolt.
Taliesin: Let's save the Fire Bolt.
Felicia: No, it's a cantrip. Is that okay?
Taliesin: I'm backing up.
Felicia: I'm the leader. I'm going to say I'm going to.
Taliesin: She said, Fire Bolt. I backed away.
Felicia: And that is 1d8 fire damage, which is seven. Seven fire damage.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and roll to see if you hit with it. So roll and add your spell attack modifier.
Felicia: What is that? Oh, it's 12... plus 11. So that is 23.
Matt: All right, that definitely hits. How much damage? That was seven fire damage, you said?
Felicia: Oh, it's 3d10 fire. Sorry. Because of my level. Which is seven and five and seven is 19.
Matt: Clutching your staff at one side, the book's under your shoulder, you bring your hand out and withdraw your hand with the force of the blast of the Fire Bolt going forward. As it smacks into the section where Grog had slammed the hammer, (boof) it bursts as a flash of arcane reddish fiery energy, and the wall itself shatters inward and starts falling and crumbling nearby. Now, this tall wall, which was about 25 feet tall, begins to fall in giant chunks.
Felicia: (yelps) Sorry!
Matt: I'm going to go ahead and have Lyra and Percy and Grog all make dexterity saving throws.
Felicia: Oh, I'm so good at that, with the negatives. Oh!
Laura: 19!
Taliesin: I can't use acrobatics?
Matt: No, not for this.
Laura: 21 for Grog.
Felicia: I rolled a zero, because I've got a negative two. It's not even on the dice!
Matt: Percy?
Taliesin: Nine.
Matt: All right, so.
Felicia: Is that worse than a critical fail?
Matt: As the whole wall just (shattering noise) breaking and falling down around you, you all go rushing backward. Grog, strangely and unexpectedly, shoulder-rolls out of the way, epic Geordi La Forge style. Escapes the crumbling wall. Unfortunately, though, Lyra and Percy stumble backward, slipping on the ice that's actually coated the floor of this cavern, and get impacted with part of the fall. It's not too bad, but both of you suffer 14 points of cold damage and bludgeoning. Cold and bludgeoning, as the wall comes tumbling down on you. However, the rest of the cavern now lies open with pieces of jagged ice almost like a broken glass window itself framing the exterior of this tunnel.
Felicia: I'm not going to go to the front anymore, guys.
Sam: Well, you're the leader, shouldn't you be--
Laura: We should protect her. She should be towards the back.
Taliesin: I'm going to heal really quickly.
Matt: Take another short rest?
Laura: We should take a short rest so that we're going in, you know.
Felicia: Yeah. I had scoliosis as a child. I'm not nimble. It's funny.
Mary: Before we take a short rest may I, again, use Awakened Mind, just to see how far away we are.
Matt: You get an image of a slowly ascending and spiraling tunnel that ascends towards an upper cavern at the top of the mountain. The upper cavern you only get a few glimpses of as they themselves have only had a few glimpses of it, but it appears this is not the only obstacle in the way.
Mary: Oh, good.
Sam: Let's carry on then.
Laura: Could you see when you were looking into their mind if it is open or if it is just a big cavern?
Mary: I could not see.
Matt: From the best vantage point you could see, it was a chamber about, I'd say 80 to 85 feet to the ceiling, lined with jagged ice crystals that are coalesced in a temperature so cold that it's almost like the inside of a geode, but it's all made of ice. But you see multiple platforms that are risen in the walls of this, and in the center, there is a singular platform, and there sitting on the top of it is apparently the dragon quarry you seek. And then the image shuts itself out, as one of them glances over the shoulder. It's growing uncomfortable with sharing information.
Mary: Got it. I thank him in my mind.
Matt: All right. Pressing forward, you can see one giant still dragging itself forward with a portion of its physical body essentially gutted.
Mary: What if we gave him a half healing potion?
Sam: Don't mess with the magic.
Laura: Because, here's the thing. If they fight with us, it's great, but if they turn on us then we are going to have to fight them at full power again.
Mary: Yeah, but we have 24 hours.
Sam: Yes, but the healing potion might do something. Let's just keep going. You are a very kind soul.
Matt: So are you guys taking a short rest to heal up? Okay. If you haven't already rolled your dice-- You healed up now? Perfect. All right, so as you guys continue to trudge up this extremely cold-- let me see. I think it'll be a fun one to-- There we go. You guys continue to ascend up this pitch-black cavern here. It appears that both the giants and the dragon do not need light to make their way through this cavern structure. So you are the small beads of visual lightness in the entire structure. The floor itself is slick, and there are bits of rough rock that you can find foot purchase but there are a few moments where some of you slip and you lose about ten feet and then catch yourself and have to move upward with this slight 35-degree incline, slowly spiraling upward. You push forward for about 30 minutes or so in this long, seemingly-- for lack of a better term, there isn't a lot of changed variation to it; it's just a gradual spiral in itself.
Laura: I want to keep perception out to make sure that nothing is ahead of us.
Matt: Go ahead and roll a perception check.
Laura: Okay, but this is pertaining to dragons. He is one of my favored enemies, so I have additional bonuses to tracking him and insight against him. Favored enemies!
Matt: All right. So you're perceiving anything dragon-related and things that would be a forewarning of a dragon, okay.
Laura: Things he would have laid down for us. Stuff like that.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll again. You have an advantage.
Laura: You know, just to see. Okay. 18?
Matt: Okay. Glancing about, you do see there are claw marks along the walls, you can see where portions of this cavern were carved out by the claws of Rimefang. You can see that occasionally there are pieces of frozen rock that are solid ice, some that appear to be an unthawed chunk of flesh of some kind. As you push further up this cavern, you spot what looks like the lower half of a statue.
Felicia: Ugh. That's a-- oh my god.
Taliesin: That's unpleasant.
Laura: Half of a giant, right?
Matt: This appears to be a frost giant that met its end. The actual lower half of the torso itself is giving off a stench of slowly rotting flesh. There is ice encasing the lower half of it. It's interesting because the physical form of the frost giants resist cold naturally, and this temperature would normally freeze any other flesh completely solid. Here, it naturally decays. But there is a distinct place where the torso was removed forcibly by what looks like a series of daggers and/or dragon's teeth.
Felicia: I have little ginger chews, if anybody wants one.
Taliesin: I'll take one.
Felicia: Here you go. Thank you. Just in my little pack here.
Matt: About ten more minutes of walking, you come upon another frozen wall barrier.
Sam: I will check it for traps!
Matt: Go ahead and roll perception.
Laura: (laughs) Thanks, brother.
Sam: Five.
Matt: As far as you can tell, it is a frost/snow-covered ground with walls and a ceiling.
Sam: Everyone. There are definitely no traps here.
Laura: Oh, good. Maybe we should stay back?
Felicia: Maybe I could do the Fire Bolt from afar. That's a good idea, and a leader idea that I had that you just reminded me of.
Laura: Good thinking, Lyra.
Felicia: Thank you. Oh, that definitely hits. That's 28.
Matt: 28. Go ahead and roll damage.
Felicia: It's a nine and a ten and five. 24.
Matt: 24. So as you focus, close one eye, and aim, you release a secondary Fire Bolt. (boosh) It slams into the front of the wall of ice, which immediately bursts inside. Shattered shards of glass-like ice go flying further up the cavern. The rest of it falls and collapses at a distance, (crashing) around you. Thankfully, you're all far enough away where there isn't an issue, and the wall seems to have shattered.
Felicia: That's the way you do it! Thank you. Oh my gosh, you guys.
Laura: Before we move forward, I've studied dragons a lot. I just want to say. So obviously we all know they're susceptible to fire damage, yes? This is an ice-breathing bastard. Do as much fire attacks as we can.
Mary: Yes. Don't dragons love, especially white ones, shiny, sparkly things? Especially gems, from what I've gleaned over the years.
Laura: If he could be distracted during combat, maybe.
Felicia: A very aggressive person. I got a glimpse of his attitude, and it is not pleasant.
Laura: Not happy.
Felicia: No. He is full of bile and vitriol, and he likes to be worshiped. We could pretend to be worshiping him.
Laura: But he'll still want to eat us. But yes, we could do that.
Felicia: I mean, he didn't eat these two guys!
Laura: It might be something to think about.
Felicia: At least to get close to him.
Laura: Before we spring an attack, yes.
Matt: Go ahead and make an intelligence check.
Laura: With advantage because it's pertaining to dragons?
Sam: (laughs) She's a stickler.
Laura: Is that an insight check?
Matt: That's just adding your intelligence modifier.
Laura: Okay, let me see what that-- oh, that's Grog's. What am I doing? Okay, so 20 was the first roll. 20 is the high roll. Oh, wait! No! 22.
Matt: 22. Okay. A few things you do know about dragons, specifically a white dragon, from your studying. You lost someone very important to you, supposedly to a dragon, and so you've spent a lot of your life focused on their techniques, their abilities, how they work. White dragons, you know, have complete immunity to cold. Cold damage of all sorts has no effect on them whatsoever. You know that they have capability of flight. They surround themselves with ice but are not hindered by it whatsoever. You do know that their claws and teeth are extremely dangerous. They themselves also, using their wings and tail, become a fierce entity from all sides. Its cold breath is extremely dangerous. It can affect a large area, and even its presence is frightful enough to where some of the most seasoned adventurers go running, fleeing, or cowering in a corner. Let alone encountering one in its lair, itself, it already has an advantage, as it sets an environment to put it at its advantage. So anything and everything you can do to prepare and be ready for such an encounter would be highly recommended. You do get the sensation that even though they are cold-based, fire doesn't necessarily do any additional damage, but it is not reduced or able to resist it.
Laura: It can't resist fire. What about lightning damage? Do I know anything about that?
Matt: Best that you know, most magics and other types of damage other than cold have an effect on it, though it does have unnatural resilience to spells and things for a large part of the combat.
Felicia: I can cast Stoneskin on one person. Or up to, actually-- I could cast Stoneskin up to three times.
Matt: But it's a concentration spell, so you can only have it up on one person.
Felicia: I can only have it on one person at a time. So who would be most likely to resist slashing and bludgeoning and piercing?
Laura: Probably Grog. He's going to be the one that's going to be up close, out of all of us.
Matt: As Grog says, "That's all right. If I'm raging, I already have the ability to resist."
Laura: That's true. He takes half to piercing and slashing.
Felicia: Oh, okay. So then we need the other person who might be within range.
Taliesin: Trinket.
Laura: Trinket.
Mary: Trinket.
Sam: Trinket's here? (laughter)
Matt: As you look over. (sad bear moan)
Laura: Trinket's right there, Scanlan.
Felicia: I don't want to demean him, but his performance is--
Laura: Lyra!
Felicia: I love him. Of course he gets the spell.
Laura: He is really, really cool!
Sam: He does things!
Felicia: Yes, of course, I don't know what I was thinking.
Laura: Here's the thing. If he doesn't have Stoneskin, I probably won't let him charge.
Taliesin: But if he does have Stoneskin, will you let him charge?
Laura: Probably.
Felicia: All right, well, that could be another-- Does that seem like a good idea for a bear?
Mary: Scanlan, are most of your attacks up close or are they far?
Sam: I've got a wide range. I like to keep people guessing. It's my thing.
Felicia: But we wouldn't really want you within claw damage.
Sam: I wouldn't want that, either.
Felicia: It does make more-- I don't mean to demean Trinket, he is a lovely bear.
Sam: Of all the bears I've known, he's top five. Top five.
Matt: As you're saying this, Trinket senses the conversation and plants both feet in the ground (growls).
Laura: See how tough he is?
Matt: He seems to be showing off. And for a moment, even though it's a conversation, that's a dangerous-looking bear.
Mary: I use Beast Speak on Trinket. And say, Trinket, what are you feeling right now? What's going on? You seem very excited.
Matt: Okay, you notice Zahra leans forward and starts giving this series of low, guttural sounds. It's weird. There's this weird arcane interference and this strange, almost like the sound itself is being muffled and stretched. And Trinket turns to her and starts giving the same noises back. Trinket says to you, essentially, "I'll do whatever it takes to protect my Vex. If this creature tries anything, I will tear its throat from its head."
Felicia: He's a sexier bear than I thought he was.
Laura: And he gives good massages, Lyra.
Felicia: Okay. So I will cast Stoneskin. It lasts an hour, so I'll cast it within the perimeter that we think we're going to get hit.
Laura: Tell him that I love him very much!
Mary: I also want to tell you, Trinket. First of all, boy or girl? Just have to check.
Laura: He's a boy! Look at his giant dick.
Matt: He leans back in a sitting bear position.
Mary: Thank you, I needed some inspiration for this fight we're about to do. All right. I also want you to know that Vex loves you very much and will do whatever she can to protect you.
Matt: As this guttural conversation comes forth, Trinket comes up to you and nuzzles his nose up against your side.
Laura: Oh, little buddy!
Felicia: I wish Aldor would do that to me.
Sam: Show his giant cock to you? (laughter)
Mary: Show his giant cock to you? (laughter)
Felicia: I saw it once. It was glorious.
Mary: Very inspiring.
Matt: As Lyra's in this memory trance, finishes casting Stoneskin and reaches out and touches Trinket. You can see Trinket's physical form, all the fur seems to coalesce into a thick rock-type exterior shell of magical protection.
Laura: What does his armor class raise by?
Matt: Armor class doesn't change, but all damage that Trinket takes from bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing is reduced by half.
Laura: Nice.
Mary: Thank you, Trinket, lovely to talk to you.
Sam: What else can we do to prepare?
Laura: I promise, Lyra, I will let him attack this battle.
Felicia: Oh good, no, it's fantastic. That invited so many good thoughts in my mind. I don't mind anything at this point. I mean, what?
Matt: The giants begin to move forward into the cavern.
Laura: It's happening.
Mary: Yep. Screw your courage to the sticking-place.
Taliesin: Ew. Oh. All right.
Matt: All right. Scanlan, I want you to go ahead and roll a dexterity saving throw.
Sam: Oh boy, already? Dex. 17. Oh. Plus four. 21.
Matt: 21. As you begin stepping forward up the cavern where the wall itself has collapsed, you step forward onto a part of the ice that is far more brittle than you expected, and suddenly it (cracks) breaks beneath your foot.
Sam: My Scanlan-sense is tingling!
Matt: You push off and fall onto your back, and as you guys look over, you hear the cracking and the falling of some sort of stone or ice-like structure. You see where Scanlan was stepping a ten-foot-diameter pit crumbles and falls beneath. And peering over the inside and using your light, you can see there appears to be an arrangement of razor-sharp ice spikes gathered at the bottom of a 15-foot pit.
Laura: What? Why isn't my brother here? I need to check for traps from now on. Snoop ahead.
Taliesin: I think we've found one. There's a trap right there.
Sam: Does that take up our whole path now?
Matt: The tunnel itself is about 20 feet wide at this point, so you guys can move around it. The giants were ahead of you at this point.
Sam: Did they laugh?
Matt: One of them shakes his head and the other one just keeps walking.
Felicia: Gee, I had a spell that would be useful, but it's not ready.
Sam: Thanks for that update.
Felicia: I'm just being honest. I could've lied, said that I totally prepared that spell, but I could've been knowing Giant the whole time, so I just.
Laura: (laughs) Oops.
Felicia: If anybody falls, I can make them fall gently. That's on the list.
Laura: Oh, that's good. Is that Feather Fall? Nice. Okay, I perceive some more and see if I see any traps ahead of us the whole time.
Matt: All right. You go ahead and make a perception check as you move forward.
Laura: That would be a seven. 15.
Matt: 15, okay. You guys continue to push upwards this long spiraling corridor. You reach another ice wall that has already been partially broken from some sort of encounter long ago. You immediately see that the part of the wall that is broken. There's about a ten-foot-wide blocked passage, the entirety of that walkway appears to be another trap, and the giants are waiting back.
Laura: Good for you. There's a thing here. We should not step on it. I have one job on this ship!
Mary: I know it's stupid, but goddamn it, I'm going to do it.
Sam: How do we get around? What do we do?
Laura: We should maybe break down this ice wall and then not walk on this area. How about that?
Sam: Oh. Okay. Let's, yes.
Felicia: Oh, good. Should I Firebolt? I mean, I'm going to Firebolt. From a distance.
Laura: (singing) From a distance, the world is...
Felicia: (singing) From a distance, the world is...
Mary: (singing) From a distance, the world is...
Sam: (singing) From a distance, the world is...
Sam: Beaches.
Felicia: That's a 30.
Matt: 30. Go ahead and roll some damage.
Felicia: Yeah! Nine and eight and a ten, these are good rolls. That's a 27.
Matt: 27. This bolt arcs around from the side. You hit it right at the point where half of the wall had collapsed, causing the other half of the wall to immediately shatter and collapse inward, spraying bits of ice and rock against the wall on that side. The ground becomes rough terrain in that general vicinity, but it's easy enough to traverse over without any serious issue. As you guys step over, and the giants make their way across, stepping over it entirely with their long gait. You move carefully over the shattered wall bits, but the ground itself seems solid. You get past without issue.
Laura: Before we go into the actual lair of the dragon-- once we get to it; I don't know much more of these thingies there are. Do we want to go in as if we're offering it something and saying, hey, we love you, we want to bring you people, and stuff like that?
Mary: We are here to serve you?
Laura: Or do we want to send somebody in first and act like they're here to serve it, and then we all spring in and surprise it? What do you want to do?
Sam: They like to eat giants.
Laura: It wants to eat anything frozen, basically. It freezes things, and then it eats them.
Felicia: Well, there was another party that the guild-- the guild did send another party.
Laura: I don't know if they had a method or if they just walked right in.
Taliesin: Perhaps if we're quiet and stealthy. Can we be quiet and stealthy?
Felicia: I can't!
Mary: I can cast Invisibility.
Felicia: Ooh, I can cast Invisibility on myself.
Sam: That would help.
Mary: So learning of the dragon, will it be able to detect us if we cast Invisibility?
Felicia: That's nature? That would be a nature check or animal handling?
Matt: This would be an intelligence check.
Felicia: Oh. Well, I can do that. That's a 30-- that's a 23.
Matt: Okay, so what you've read of dragons, their ability to sense their surroundings is adapted to all environments, whether they can see or not. They actually have the ability to see with no sight necessary to a certain extent, so invisibility would help at a distance, quite a bit of distance, but within a certain point it is able to sense your presence whether or not it can see you. Also note, if you cast Invisibility you lose your concentration spell on Trinket.
Felicia: Oh, so let's not do that. Now, his vanity, he does like being worshipped. So that is the key.
Sam: So we could go in with an offering.
Laura: An offering. What if we laid a trap in the offering? What if we used your frag grenade that you did. Is it a bomb? Does it set off on a timer? Is it very fragile?
Taliesin: I have to set it off personally. I actually have to shoot it to set it off.
Mary: So smile, you son of a bitch, basically, if we put it in his mouth?
Laura: Do we have any bombs or anything like that? Because I have a very big beautiful diamond of awesomeness that we uncovered before that I keep about. We could present him with this big, huge-ass diamond and then have it trapped with some sort of exploding device.
Sam: We could.
Felicia: If he picks the diamond up off of the--
Laura: We could put it in a bag and then put the diamond on top of a bomb or something, and then when he picks it up and like, (explosion) in his face.
Taliesin: That's hoping for an awful lot of things to go our way. More things than normally go our way, to be fair.
Felicia: Well, it seems worthy of trying to get close to him, because his attacks-- Would he as a dragon have a very good length attack?
Matt: Yeah, as a dragon has some decent reach with some of its attacks. Its bite, and its length of neck and ability to bite actually has quite a bit of reach. Also, its tail has quite some reach, as well. It can cover some decent ground just with its physical form.
Felicia: The thing is, obviously the trolls don't come up here a lot or there wouldn't be so much ice in here. Walls. So I think that's a problem, so it's not as if they come up here all the time to give it treats. Right?
Sam: We could just walk in there. I could be holding Lyra as my captive and say, I've brought you this captive to eat.
Felicia: I don't like that one.
Sam: Well, you know, you're very appealing.
Mary: We still don't know that the giants aren't going to help us.
Matt: As you guys are stepping forward up the pathway, you turn a corner and you can see the giants have stopped, and they have a physical trepidation to the way that they're leaning backward in their stance. As you turn the corner, the little bit of light that reaches out, you can see there appears to be one final ice wall that has a ten-foot opening where it's left as a pathway, and it opens into a darkened chamber.
Mary: Well, I have darkvision for 60 feet, so I could approach around the side and peer in and just see what's there, 60 feet ahead.
Matt: Okay, so you walk up past the giants to this entrance? All right. As you walk forward, you see your vision spill out in the darkness, with a little bit of dim light and the darkness before you reveals itself. You can see a smattering of broken bits along the ground, looks like rocks and ice, a frozen leg of some humanoid, an arm, some scattered, broken armor and weapons. There are pieces of what appears to be a frozen-over graveyard of previous attempts towards inhabiting this room. And as you continue to push forward towards the edge, just towards the perimeter as far as your vision can see at this doorway, you see a central platform in the middle of this giant chamber that rises up about 15 feet. Ten, 15 feet, and just cresting over the top of this platform is the edge of an alabaster snout, with teeth overlapping. You hear this (snarls) growling snarl. And this little voice spills out from underneath and says, "Why don't you enter? If you're going to arrive and present yourselves, do not cower yet."
Felicia: Get that diamond out!
Matt: And with that, we're going to go ahead and take a break. (shouting)
Matt: We're going to take a quick ten-minute break to go ahead and use the bathroom, get a little snack. Yes?
Zac: We're eight subscribers away from another giveaway. (cheering)
Zac: The giveaway includes a signed player's handbook by all your wonderful hosts, as well as the hosts that will be here next week, and a signed copy of Felicia Day's new book.
Felicia: My new book! It's right there! I signed it.
Sam: What's it called? What's the title?
Felicia: It's called You're Never Weird on the Internet (Almost).
Sam: Aw. That's cool.
Felicia: It's amusing.
Zac: Are you weird in real life all the time?
Felicia: No, I mean, look at me.
Zac: No. Definitely not.
Felicia: I don't believe your face.
Sam: Did you consider the title Day Dreaming?
Felicia: You're pretty.
Sam: I just thought, because it's like a pun.
Felicia: No, that's awful.
Sam: Consider it.
Matt: Somewhere, someone's holding their manuscript entitled Day Dreaming and going (fake crying). (laughter)
Matt: All right, guys, we'll take a quick break, we'll see you back in ten minutes or so to see how this goes. [break]
Matt: Welcome back from the break! Our fantastic Travis finally made it. (cheering)
Travis: I heard I rolled really well in the beginning of this.
Matt: Yeah, it went wonderfully.
Laura: Sorry. But your Chain of Returning is attached to your blazing warhammer now.
Matt: There you go. So as it ends up, we have a new winner. KadenPhilly is the winner, congratulations, of our next giveaway. So we'll be giving away the player's handbook, the signed photo, a copy of Felicia's book-- yay!-- and a bunch of other goodies coming your way soon, so make sure you get your information to the Overlord. We'll have another giveaway at 5,800, if we can get to there by the end of the show tonight, so let's see if we can hit that. In the meantime, guys--
Travis: Shit.
Mary: Yeah. Welcome to the shit.
Travis: I've been watching in the car.
Matt: You guys have all been making your way through the cavern back here. Zahra has stepped forward and in the darkness, you can see right here at the edge a form.
Felicia: He's up above us, though.
Matt: Yep. About ten, 15 feet up on this platform, leaning over the edge is Rimefang, staring at you through the darkness. A claw comes forward and beckons.
Laura: Can I, from here, before we go in there-- I'm going to cast Hunter's Mark on him.
Matt: You can't see him right now.
Mary: I can.
Matt: Zahra can.
Travis: I can, too. I've got my belt of dwarven darkvision.
Felicia: Is he speaking dragon?
Matt: Speaking Common.
Felicia: He's speaking Common. Okay.
Mary: Would he detect if I would cast anything on him at the moment? I don't know! Then I'm going to sit here and drink my drink.
Travis: Are you offering him that jewel, or did we ditch that idea?
Laura: No, are we doing that?
Sam: We might. Depends what he asks. Yeah, let's do it.
Travis: Yeah, roll it out like a tennis ball for a dog.
Taliesin: Do we have a little bag we can put the jewels in?
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: We don't have time to do any of this stuff.
Laura: Yeah, we do.
Taliesin: We have a second. I'm going to hand you my Holy Hand Grenade of Antioch. Why not?
Travis: You can Hold Monster?
Mary: I can Hold Monster. Yeah, we both can.
Travis: Does he qualify as a monster?
Matt: As far as you know, dragon's pretty much a monster.
Laura: I am putting Percy's hand grenade inside this bag along with a diamond. Oh, it's a really pretty diamond.
Taliesin: We'll get it back, it's okay.
Laura: As long as it doesn't explode.
Taliesin: You can't explode a diamond.
Laura: That's true, diamonds are really strong.
Taliesin: Diamonds are forever.
Laura: I put that in the bag. Are we tossing this at him? What are we doing?
Sam: No! We walk in. He's beckoning us. Let's walk in. I'm walking in.
Matt: All right, so you guys all walk in?
Sam: I'm going ahead.
Laura: Here, hold the bag.
Sam: I'll take the bag.
Matt: Zahra, are you staying ahead with Scanlan?
Felicia: I believe that you squishy people should be back here!
Travis: I'm not squishy, I go with them.
Matt: As a note, as you guys are walking through and the light hits the walls, you begin to see the ice itself, which you've become accustomed to, is now being broken up into what looks like little glittering stars. It's almost like you're walking through a frozen area of the night sky. You realize that there are gold pieces frozen in sporadically all throughout the wall, the floor, the ceiling here. The actual, whatever wealth this dragon has acquired is in some way shape or form embedded in its own lair. Anyway. So we have the three of you up front. Who's up next? I imagine we've got Trinket.
Laura: Yeah. Me.
Matt: All right, so you guys all continue to move forward?
Mary: Not too close!
Laura: Scanlan!
Matt: There? Where do you want to stop? You guys have laser pointers to use, by the way, if you want to point out wherever you want to be.
Laura: Scanlan should definitely talk to him.
Taliesin: I would like to go around here.
Felicia: Oh glorious Rimefang, we have an offering for you!
Taliesin: That's not me.
Sam: Is that you? Hello.
Matt: No, that was you, sorry. So Percy goes here.
Laura: Over by Percy. But further.
Felicia: Is that 90 feet?
Sam: It's less than that. We're 30 feet away now.
Laura: Oh, come on, giants. Help us out.
Matt: So as you guys enter the chamber, the actual air here is more still and cold than at any point of the interior of the cavern has been. Even breathing inward hurts in itself as the freezing air hits your lungs. Rimefang sits there, perched on top of this central platform, grinning down towards the rest of the group. You, who have shouted this out, Lyra, about having an offering. Rimefang immediately leans forward. "An offering, you say?"
Laura: I want to make my way further up. While he's talking, I want to make my way along the wall a little.
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Laura: Oh no. 20! Natural 20! And all I needed was fried chicken! (laughter)
Travis: It's true.
Matt: All right, so. You, somehow, manage to dart out of the visual reference of a very focused adult white dragon. Rimefang does not seem to gather any movement, and you vanish into the side. Where do you want to go?
Laura: A little bit further. There. That sounds good.
Matt: Okay. Percy, as you're stepping over you realize you're stepping onto what looks like the broken lower half of another giant that has fallen over, a booted leg and part of an eaten armored torso to your back. As you begin to look through, you also see there currently frozen in place three other individuals that are in mid-battle and are frozen solid.
Laura: If we unfreeze them, they could help us.
Felicia: They're probably dead in there.
Travis: We're standing in front of a dragon!
Sam: Rimefang?
Mary: Oh great Rimefang! What a glorious moon you are amidst the stars of your treasure.
Travis: Oh, pour it on, why don't you? (laughter)
Mary: We do have an offering for you.
Sam: Yes. And I use Mage Hand to lift the diamond out of the bag and dangle it in front of the dragon. We've brought you this diamond. We've come from the Slayer's Take. We represent the guild and we are here to formally apologize for sending a few of our members here in the past and promise that we never shall again, and as a gift of apology and hopefully brotherhood, we offer you this diamond. There are many more to come.
Taliesin: And everything else in the bag, as well.
Laura: And then you put it back in the bag. And then you give it to him.
Matt: There's this low, guttural snarl (snarls). It leans forward, sneaking down off the perch a little bit. Its head moves forward and stretches outward, no more than maybe ten feet from your face. You can see it inspecting the diamond as you're holding it by the Mage Hand, floating above the rest of the bag. Chuckles to itself. (chuckles) "This is your measly offering?"
Sam: There is a diamond of much greater size and value in this pouch. But first, we want to hear that you are going to allow us safe passage out of here before we turn it over to you.
Matt: Persuasion check.
Zac: Guys, just so you know, the stream's buffering, so hold. Twitch problems.
Felicia: Oh no.
Zac: Hold for buffer.
Matt: Do we know at what point it started buffering?
Zac: You're back up. Missing the last two sentences. Buffer over.
Sam: Please allow us safe passage. And then you said roll for persuasion, and I rolled a 19.
Matt: Rimefang's head withdraws back and its claws pull back on top of the platform. It lifts its head up, looking down at you with this very disinterested, snooty look (huffs). As it snorts out of its nose, this puff of frost shoots out and crystals of ice fall and clatter to the ground around it.
Sam: That was so cool.
Matt: "You. You trespass into my domain, your voices bickering and bouncing off the walls, annoying me, waking me from my slumber. My freshly eaten slumber. I am curious, before you so walk into my dinner table, why you seem to have gotten past my guardians?" At which point the two giants who are standing behind you look over at each other nervously.
Sam: Your guardians are well aware of our power and position and did not want to offend you by turning us away.
Matt: "Are you to tell me I spared your insignificant lives so you could let this insulting, insufferable insect into the heart of my domain?"
Sam: I'm called Burt Reynolds, and I take great offense at that.
Matt: The dragon's head turns to the side for a moment as a glance of confusion and almost amusement that you speak up to it with such a disrespectful manner. (evil laughter)
Sam: You can call me Mr. Reynolds or simply Burt.
Matt: (heavy impacts) Its claws dig in and tighten on the edges of this platform. You can see the stonework and the ice crack and shatter under its grip as pieces of stone tumble down the edges of the platform, scattering across the ground with a slight clattering. The wings (whoosh) unfurl outward. Its head looks down upon you directly. "Burt." (laughter)
Matt: "You say you're from the Slayer's Take. I have not lived these hundred years or so to become the hunted. I am the hunter! I am the scourge of the Thorain Tundra! I am the stalker of this timberland. Well. Parts of you shall adorn my walls, glittering in pieces for times to come. Giants. To my side! Tonight, you choose whether I dine on you or just them."
Mary: I use-- fuck me. (laughter)
Taliesin: I don't know if you have that spell.
Felicia: Really, what's the DC on that?
Mary: It's very high! I use Awakened Mind to once more say, now we have seen what you have been through. We see the terror that you face every day from this awful beast. This is your chance. You may not have another. Fight him with us and destroy this beast forever.
Matt: Make a persuasion check versus the dragon's intimidation check.
Sam: Oh, versus a dragon!
Laura: Natural 20 all the way. Natural 20. I've had my bow notched, and I cast Hunter's Mark while all this is going on.
Mary: 18. 18 plus what?
Sam: What is it, persuasion?
Matt: Persuasion.
Mary: Plus nine. 27.
Matt: The giants look at each other, and they look down at the rest of you. They pull their axes out, shields at the ready, and look back up at Rimefang, and in Giant you hear, muttered under their breath, "It's now or never." (cheering)
Matt: Roll initiative.
Mary: Yes!
Laura: Oh my god.
Felicia: Oh my god.
Taliesin: Oh my god.
Felicia: Oh, I rolled lower!
Laura: I rolled a 20.
Taliesin: I rolled another 20.
Laura: Me too!
Travis: What is it with you and your 20s?
Taliesin: I don't know! I don't know what happened.
Matt: Okay, all right. 25 to 20, anyone?
Laura: 25.
Taliesin: 28.
Mary: What?!
Matt: All right. We have Percy, we have Vex, leaving that up there. All right, we have 20 to 15?
Travis: 19.
Matt: 19, nice. 15 to ten?
Mary: 12.
Matt: 12. Zahra, 12. Ten to five?
Sam: Seven.
Matt: Seven for Scanlan. (laughing) what did you roll?
Felicia: Negative one! (laughter)
Mary: That's our leader!
Matt: Did you roll a natural one?
Felicia: I rolled a one, and I have a negative two.
Travis: On your initiative?!
Felicia: Yes! I'm never going. I'm going to just have a snack.
Travis: You break out the trail mix.
Taliesin: The little gingers come back out.
Felicia: Is that a record?
Travis: That is a record. I don't think we've ever had a negative initiative.
Matt: All right, so as the wings unfurl on top of this platform, the combat round begins with Percy.
Taliesin: If I take one shot, can I hold my second shot until an event? Can I time my second shot?
Matt: No, you'd have to hold your initiative, or you do all your actions in one round, unfortunately.
Taliesin: Darn it. What initiative did you roll, again?
Sam: Low. Second to last.
Taliesin: In that case, I'm going to take a few steps behind that frozen creature right there. I'm going to pull out Bad News.
Mary: (singing) Bad News!
Sam: (singing) Bad News!
Taliesin: (singing) Bad News!
Taliesin: I'm going to aim for the face. I'm going to take a head shot on him.
Matt: Okay, the frozen warrior is in front of you.
Taliesin: I'm just using him as partial cover.
Matt: Okay, so you're behind the creature. Are you just putting it on it to aim?
Taliesin: More or less. I'm using him as a steady and as partial cover as I take a head shot on the dragon. I'm not taking a bonus for damage, no. Oh. 15?
Matt: 15 unfortunately does not hit. As you shoot, (gunshot), it actually hits the body but the hardness of the dragon's scales ricochets the shot off, (ricochet sound), you see it impact on some part of the far side of the cavern.
Taliesin: I'm going to burn a bonus action and spend another grit point and do another shot.
Matt: So you're doing your action surge?
Taliesin: I'm taking my action surge.
Matt: Okay, so you use your action surge, and that's it for this round. You use your first round to reload Bad News and place it back up on top.
Taliesin: Come on.
Matt: Another head shot, you said?
Taliesin: Yeah. Oh! 19! That's much better. Plus 12, that's 32 to hit. And that's 15 points of damage, and head shot means he's got disadvantage on all attacks for the next round.
Matt: Okay, good to know. So I'm going to go ahead and roll. All right, so. (gunshot) From the impact of the blast, you see the shot ricochet off of Rimefang's face. The impact sends a couple pieces of white dragon scale shooting off into the darkness, and the head (grunts) rears from the impact, shakes, seemingly loosely shaken by the impact of the blast. The blowback from the gun actually sends a large crack through the physical body of the ice warrior ahead of you, and it collapses into a pile of ice on the ground in front of you.
Taliesin: I feel a little guilty about that. I feel very guilty about that.
Matt: You get the feeling that whatever was there probably has not been alive for quite a while.
Taliesin: Okay, I feel a little better.
Matt: Frozen solid. It breaks like the T-1000.
Taliesin: And he was the most useful he's ever been.
Matt: That ends Percy's turn. We're up at Vex.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to cast Lightning Arrow, and I'm going to attack through my Blazing Bow.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: Okay. Oh, that's good! That is a 25?
Matt: 25? 25 does hit, yes.
Laura: Okay, so that is 4d8 of lightning damage.
Matt: All right. Saving throw for half? Or just take it?
Laura: Saving throw for half, yes.
Matt: That's a natural 20 on its saving throw, so it takes half damage.
Felicia: That's some stink-eye.
Matt: Hey, better on a saving throw than on an attack.
Laura: 13 plus six is 19, 20, so ten. Plus regular damage, right? For my regular. 19. I know. 11 plus ten is 21, plus Hunter's Mark is four. And then plus my Blazing Bow, which adds another ten. Where did that land? Shit, balls! I'm so aggressive right now! I'm going to roll a different one! Oh my god. That looks like a one. Oh wow. Two ones. That's great.
Matt: So as you pull back your arrow, the actual shaft begins to spark with bluish energy as you release it. The arrow transforms (energy noises) into an arcing bolt of electrical energy. It impacts and courses through the upper torso of the dragon, as it's (grunts) still trying to shake off the damage it took from Percy's attack. It manages to push off most of the impact, but still takes damage from it. There's also a burst of fire from the impact, as well, you can see a bit of flame trickle up the side of his body and it eventually goes out from the cold in the air.
Laura: That was one attack.
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: But was the spell an action?
Laura: The Lightning Arrow is a bonus.
Matt: Oh, okay. So it makes your next attack do that. Right. Gotcha. So you have one more attack.
Laura: So I am going to send Trinket. Where is he?
Matt: Trinket's over here with the giants guarding him.
Laura: Dear lord. Can Trinket run around and attack his butt?
Matt: It's actually up on top of a 15-foot platform.
Laura: Oh, so Trinket can't do shit right now.
Matt: Not right now, but Trinket can move if you like.
Laura: Trinket's going to move, and I'm going to attack again, can I do that?
Matt: Yeah, you can do that.
Laura: We want to spread out.
Matt: That's as far as Trinket get can get, there.
Laura: Can I attack again?
Matt: You can, yeah.
Laura: All right, I'll hit him again. Okay, just a regular attack through the bow.
Matt: Yep. This is your second use of it, though; you're done with it.
Laura: Yes. 17.
Matt: 17. As you fire the arrow, it takes its wing and (whoosh) batters it out of the way, and the arrow shatters in mid air. You see a burst of fire as it does nothing.
Laura: It was a 25 that hit before. What was the first attack that hit?
Taliesin: I was in the 30s.
Matt: So that ends your turn, Vex. Do you want to move, or do you want to stay right there?
Laura: Can I stealth?
Matt: (laughs) No, that's a hide action, I think.
Laura: Then I'm going to move along the wall further. Yeah, like that.
Matt: That ends your turn. Rimefang, now, shaking off the frustration, looks around the room, lifts up on its back hind legs, spreads its wings, and just gives this large roar. (roars) The entire room shakes, and you see pieces of ice and rock begin to start falling from the ceiling. Everybody, go ahead and make a wisdom saving throw. Everybody. One giant is fine. All right, starting with Percy.
Taliesin: 12.
Matt: 12.
Felicia: 15.
Sam: Natural 20, but it becomes 18.
Matt: Okay.
Felicia: Because you're not wise.
Mary: 21.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Ten.
Matt: Grog?
Travis: Nine?
Matt: That's rough.
Travis: Very wise.
Sam: Oh, lots of red circles.
Matt: All right, so. The sheer amount of presence that this dragon permeates sends a shiver of fear down your spine. Vex, Percy, Grog, and one of the giants are currently frightened of the dragon. While you are frightened, you have disadvantage on ability checks and attack rolls, and you cannot willingly move closer to the dragon.
Laura: Is Trinket frightened?
Matt: Roll for Trinket.
Laura: Okay. Come on, Trinket. No! He's probably pretty frightened. Oh, does that count as intimidation?
Matt: No, it's a wisdom saving throw. So it's whatever his wisdom bonus is.
Laura: He rolled an eight, so I'm guessing he's pretty scared.
Matt: Probably scared. Trinket, all of a sudden also (scared bear noises) backs up a little bit and is looking equally frightened, especially seeing you scared. Trinket feels a moment of fear there.
Laura: You've still got a really big dick!
Felicia: What?
Laura: I'm just telling him to encourage him.
Travis: I missed something.
Sam: Not the dragon. Although, probably the dragon too.
Matt: Rimefang then (whoosh) flies up into the air for a minute. And then swoops over and lands over on this side, and that's going to end its turn. That brings us to Grog.
Travis: I got to break it, right?
Matt: Yeah, you're scared.
Travis: Rage? I look over my shoulder, terrified, at the other one that's scared, and I say, repeat after me, lads. I would like to rage.
Matt: You reach into your inner self, and suddenly you realize this is it. You know dragons, you've fought dragons in the past, you've killed dragons in the past, and you know dragons have been responsible for hurting some of your friends and their families, and through that, that anger just billows up from inside, and that fear shakes from your body.
Travis: I want to kill a dragon like my friend Pike did.
Matt: You're now in a rage. You shake the fear effect, and you can take the rest of your turn as you see fit.
Travis: (battle cry) I would like to run over that direction.
Sam: Oh, you're running away from it?
Matt: You rage-ran.
Travis: I rage-ran. Can I attack?
Matt: You're currently hiding behind a 15-foot platform.
Travis: So I can't see beyond it?
Matt: You're literally hiding from the dragon right now. Cool. All right, that ends your turn? Zahra, you're up.
Mary: All right, how far away is it from me?
Matt: It is currently 30 feet from you.
Mary: All right.
Matt: Real fast. Grog, make a dexterity saving throw.
Travis: 13?
Matt: 13?
Laura: What was that for?
Matt: As you're running through, all of a sudden the floor gives out from underneath you, and you roll off to the side. You almost fall in, catching yourself, you slide down into a pit, but manage to get your handhold on a piece of stone that's jutting out of the rock. Pull yourself up. Underneath where you were in the ground is a cracked piece of ice: a pit in the ground.
Laura: Seriously?
Matt: But you're fine. You get back up to your feet. That could've been really bad. It's about 15 feet down into these jagged shards of ice.
Laura: My passive perception is 21. Just for future reference.
Matt: Good to know. You also have no light source. You're at the far back in the darkness. Actually, you have Grog around you right now.
Mary: And I still have Light cast.
Matt: Yeah, so you're fine. All right. That brings us to Zahra, once again.
Mary: I cast my bonus Hex on this beautiful beast.
Matt: It is now Hexed, as well.
Sam: What's that do? What's that?
Mary: I get extra damage.
Travis: You sexy tailed bastard.
Mary: I take my dark dragon staff, and as this moon orb begins to glow, I cast Witch Bolt-- is that it?-- yes! Witch Bolt upon it! Infused with my own internal moon fire.
Matt: All right. Do you have to roll to hit on that one?
Mary: Witch Bolt? Yeah, what do I do? It's plus 11. 5d12 plus two.
Laura: Yeah, so roll and then add 11.
Mary: 13.
Laura: Oh, that's good.
Mary: 24, plus two damage to all spells cast, so 26?
Laura: No, that's damage.
Mary: Oh, sorry, 24.
Matt: All right, so Witch Bolt does hit. Go ahead and roll damage for that.
Mary: So 5d12. Five times. All right. Do math for me, somebody. What is that? That's a three.
Travis: Three plus the two, so that's five.
Laura: You do it all and then add the two.
Travis: Oh, gotcha. Seven.
Mary: That's four.
Travis: Yeah. Plus four. 19. 26. 38.
Mary: One more?
Laura: No, that's all five.
Matt: Five, and you add 1d6 to that because of your Hex.
Laura: Plus two, so 38 is 40.
Mary: One.
Matt: Okay. So 41 points.
Mary: Yeah.
Laura: Plus anything else? Wait, plus two damage to all-- oh, but that's already--
Travis: That's already there.
Matt: Okay, so. After you Hex it, you can see the shadows around the dragon begin to form and coalesce around its torso, and as it looks around, these small demonic faces that cackle as bits of moonlight begin to pierce through these grins chokehold around its neck, and as it tries to shake it off, you bring your staff forward, and this bolt of bluish-green electrical energy shakes out in what looks like a piercing arc of jagged moonlight that strikes right into the center of the dragon's chest. As it does, the dragon's nearly pushed off its feet for a second, gathers itself, and you can see that energy surrounds it like magical shackles, it continues to keep its hold on the creature, as Witch Bolt does. All right. Do you wish to move, or are you going to stay where you are? You can move 30 feet, six squares.
Mary: I'd like to go stand by the giants.
Travis: You're already there.
Matt: Yeah, you're right here. It's hard for you to see because that guy's in the way, but you're right there.
Mary: All right. No, the other way. Blinding players as we go. Where am I? I'm there? I'd like to move to the slight cover of the pedestal.
Matt: You can get that far. All right, so there you are. That ends your turn, Zahra. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: My eyes begin to change to a dark shade as I turn my gaze to the dragon and cast Eyebite on him.
Travis: What? Cast what?
Sam: Eyebite.
Matt: All right. And how are you having that affect him?
Sam: I would like to sicken him. Give him a little tummy-ache.
Travis: Is he going to do the twirls?
Matt: Okay, we're going to do Eyebite here.
Sam: Through my Hand Cone of Clarity!
Matt: All right. So wisdom saving throw for the dragon. Use my meteor dice one of the fans out there sent. All right, what's the DC on that now total?
Sam: It's 19.
Matt: 19. That would fail. It's going to use its legendary resistance to choose to succeed instead.
Sam: It can just choose to succeed?!
Travis: How many times can it choose to do that?!
Matt: Three times per day. Welcome to fighting a dragon!
Sam: What? But that was a cool spell!
Matt: So as your eyes darken, the dragon's currently surrounded by the Witch Bolt and the Hex on the creature. You darken your eyes, and you look over and see the arcane energy taking your vision, its vision, combine it in midair. As you do, it shakes its head and (roars) shouts. You instinctively pull back, and as you do, the spell drifts away from you and you realize the incantation's lost.
Travis: Percy, use your badass motherfucker feat to have it work.
Sam: Okay, can I throw with a bonus action?
Matt: What are you going to throw?
Sam: A bag.
Matt: No, that's probably more of an action, but you can drop it as a bonus action.
Sam: Got it. Then I will move a few steps away. I can still move and stuff, right? I would like to move away from this group of soon-to-be-blasted-with-dragon-fire people. Just a few yards away to my left.
Matt: All right.
Sam: That's fine, sure, that's great. And give some inspiration to Lyra. I'll say, (singing) When the moon hits your eye like a big pizza pie, that's Aldor-e. (cheering)
Travis: Yeah, going deep.
Matt: And suddenly, the fear that's getting close to clutching your heart and giving you every instinct to run from this, you hear the name Aldor, and you feel that surge of warmth fill your body, and the need to push on forward. Go ahead and take a d10 inspiration dice to use in any roll you want.
Felicia: Oh my gosh, thank you so much. That's beautiful.
Sam: Well, I wrote it for you.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn, Scanlan. Now the giants go. This one is going to move to the side. It's deathly afraid of the dragon, it's like, this is a bad idea, it's really regretting its decision. It's going to attempt to shake the effect. And does so. (cheering)
Matt: Shakes its fright. The other one is going to step over you. As you're like, all of a sudden this foot goes (wham) in front of you, you're like, (nervous sound).
Felicia: Oh my god, I got hit with his dick. (laughter)
Travis: What were their names? Ace and Base?
Sam: Ace and Gary.
Mary: Ace and Gary.
Matt: The giant's going to move forward. It's going to attempt to make two strikes with its greataxe. That's going to be a 17, that misses. And a 16, that misses. (whooshing) Makes two strikes to the dragon, and it just dodges out of the way. The second one, it reaches up with its claw and slaps, just parries its axe out of the way and just glares at it, and you can see at that moment, the giant also itself is like (growls). Ending their turn. Lyra, you're up.
Felicia: Oh, what? Finally me? All right. I am going to get my big spell out. Now, can I target its wing and try to Disintegrate-- can I try to cut its wing off?
Matt: You know what, yeah, if you want to go ahead and try that. It's going to be a disadvantage on the attack roll.
Felicia: What is that?
Travis: Roll it twice and you get the lower number.
Matt: But does Disintegrate have--
Felicia: It doesn't have a DC.
Matt: Then it would have an advantage on the saving throw.
Felicia: Oh, okay. No, I'm going to try to hit it. It's my big gun, I don't want to be like, sorry. I'm like, I just did this and it looked amazing.
Sam: Which one are you doing?
Felicia: I'm doing Disintegrate. And it's 10d6 plus a d10, plus 40. Right? It's not the best roll, guys. There's a lot of small numbers here.
Travis: Yeah, it's only got plus 40. It's a pretty shrimpy hit.
Laura: Wait, plus 40?
Matt: Yeah, it's 10d6 plus 40 force damage.
Travis: I need to get a wand.
Matt: Disintegrate's nasty.
Felicia: 39.
Matt: 39 plus 40? All right, that's 79 points of damage. What's the DC? It's 17 on that for your spells?
Felicia: Yes.
Matt: It does make its saving throw, so half damage. But rounding up, that's 40 damage still. 40 force damage to the dragon. As you, with the swelling of energy that Scanlan gave you reminding you of Aldor, you release and once again that sickeningly green beam of arcane energy just streaks out, hits the dragon, and with a burst of arcane energy you can see part of its scales have withered, part of its wing is now tattered and missing, and immediately the physical form of the dragon, it's reeling in pain.
Laura: So if we aim at that area that doesn't have scales...
Matt: You'll find out.
Mary: But you've still got the Witch Bolt wrapping around him, yeah?
Matt: That is focused.
Felicia: I definitely want to move. I want to move over there behind that-- over here. Yeah. So I'm a little less conspicuous.
Matt: All righty. Cool. That will be the top of the round. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Still no hand-grenade.
Matt: No. The fear has shaken you, so you cannot move closer to it, and you have disadvantage on attacks.
Taliesin: What do I do to shake the fear?
Matt: At the end of your turn, you make a saving throw to try and shake it. You can't move closer to it, but you can still attack it. You cannot move closer to it, and your attacks have disadvantage.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to try and take a shot at it with a standard shot for right now.
Matt: Okay. So because you've shot, reloaded, shot, reloaded. Go for it.
Taliesin: 17. Wait, and with disadvantage.
Felicia: Oh no. That's a great 20 you can't use.
Matt: Yeah. So a total of 17? As you fire, it would've hit, unfortunately it streaks through the portion of the wing that currently is left a gaping hole thanks to the Disintegrate spell, the impact of the bullet itself blasting against the back wall, sending chunks and shards of ice spilling off in the distance.
Taliesin: I would like to really quickly then go into that little corner there for some cover.
Matt: Okay. All right. Cool, so that ends your turn. Vex, you're up next.
Taliesin: Oh, I didn't roll to shake off the fear.
Matt: Go ahead and make the save.
Travis: (singing) Shake it off.
All: (singing) Shake it off!
Matt: What'd you roll?
Taliesin: Five.
Matt: Five, yeah. The fear is still clutching you internally, like, "Shit, dragon, bad, dragon!" Vex.
Laura: Can I see him at all?
Matt: Right now? No. You can see parts of the wings fluttering over, but you don't have a very good visual on it.
Laura: And he's pretty far away?
Matt: He's decent distance, yeah.
Laura: If I just try to (bowstring noise) up?
Matt: You can try to. It has three-quarters cover, so it gets a plus five to its armor class.
Laura: And I'm at disadvantage. Does it seem like if I cast something that would do mass damage, would the giant then not want to attack with us anymore?
Matt: That's a risk you'd have to take.
Travis: Drop some stank on that dragon.
Laura: I'm scared to hit the giant with it. Because I want to do Conjure Barrage, but I'm afraid of the giant.
Felicia: Well, if you do damage to him, the spell breaks.
Laura: Exactly. So that would be bad.
Sam: But he's not fighting for us because of a spell right now. We convinced him.
Felicia: Well.
Taliesin: Well.
Laura: Potentially.
Travis: Look at the poker face on that DM. Giving up nothing. Giving up nothing!
Felicia: Stone-faced.
Laura: Should I try it?
Taliesin: I don't know. What do I know?
Mary: If we damage it, this spell that I've been talking to him with goes (poof).
Laura: All right, then I'm going to try to hit the dragon with a regular attack. I'm not going to do Conjure Barrage.
Matt: All right, so what's the first range increment on your longbow?
Laura: It's 120.
Matt: That's the first range increment? Yeah, it's a longbow, yeah. So you're not at disadvantage from that shot. However, it does have three-quarters cover. And given that circumstance--
Taliesin: Does she not have sharpshooter?
Laura: I don't. That's not the feat that I took. I took read lips. I'm really good in populated areas.
Matt: So go for it and roll for the attacks.
Laura: Okay, cool. Here we go! Yeah, no. Doesn't hit. (laughter)
Felicia: We're going to die!
Matt: You pull back and release the first arrow. It actually just barely scrapes the top of the platform and shatters across the ice.
Mary: Come on!
Laura: That's better! 27!
Matt: 27, even with the three-quarters cover, does hit! Go ahead and roll damage. (cheering)
Laura: Okay. What is that? 12, 13, 14! Plus a d6, because I'm badass! Plus six! That's 19. That's not even close to 40, but it does something.
Matt: It's still damage! So as you release the arrow, it just misses the top of the platform, and you get just enough of an angle that it hits one of the wings as it pulls it up, sticks into the part of its hand that crests the top of the wing. It (growls)--
Laura: And I say, fuck you!
Matt: Okay. And it echoes, "Fuck you, fuck you..." Do you or Trinket wish to move?
Laura: We're as far away as we can be, and I can't move any closer.
Matt: That's true. So now you and Trinket both make wisdom saving throws to try and shake the fear. Oh, and you're frightened, so actually, roll again on the attack. Disadvantage on the attacks. Just roll again. You're frightened.
Laura: No, both of those sucked. The first one was 20. 20 was the first!
Matt: So a total of 20 for the second roll? Well, that would hit. Well no, it has three-quarters cover so it wouldn't, unfortunately.
Laura: Matthew Mercer.
Matt: You were frightened! It's part of the effect. I had to remind myself that. So the arrow splinters off the top of the wing as it reaches upward, and you still feel the fear clutching your physical self.
Laura: Now we try to shake it off.
Matt: Now you try and shake it off.
Laura: (sings) I shake it off.
Mary: (sings) Shake it off!
Matt: First roll is for you.
Laura: I do not succeed. It's a three.
Matt: That would be a no, sorry. For Trinket?
Laura: 20! Why did you say the first one was for me? Why couldn't the second one be for me?
Matt: Because that's how it works. So while you're still scared, you look over and you see Trinket shakes it off. Trinket looks over his shoulder at you and gives you a nod of like, I got this. Turns back to the dragon and gives a (roars) giant grizzly-bear growl and shout at the dragon. Do you wish to move at all?
Laura: Where is he?
Matt: Trinket's right here.
Laura: He's going to run up for the time being and hide. Give me this.
Felicia: Hide? Why is everyone hiding?!
Laura: He's not hiding! He's going to run up to this area so that he's got a better vantage point to run up for the next turn.
Matt: That's about as far as Trinket can get right there.
Laura: He can't get any further into this little crevice?
Matt: Unfortunately, no.
Laura: Can he run right here?
Matt: Trinket could move here instead. That's as far as Trinket could move on his movement.
Laura: That's not really protecting him, is it?
Matt: No, but it's not over in a cluster of other people.
Laura: All right.
Matt: All right. Does that end your turn? Rimefang, who currently has this giant in its face, angrily decides to instead, as a legendary action at the end of your turn, actually, before it takes its turn as you've misfired and Trinket's running along, it's going to go ahead and use one of its legendary actions to do a wing attack against the giant in front of it.
Mary: No, Derek!
Travis: (laughs) Derek. It's Gary.
Mary: Gary. He told me telepathically that his name is actually Derek.
Matt: This is an interesting point. Remember, this is a dragon. It's your favored enemy. So keep that in mind, you have an advantage on attacks against it.
Laura: Do I? No, I don't. I looked it up today, yo. I don't get shit on attacks for him because we transferred over from Pathfinder. All I can do is talk to him.
Matt: The chat keeps yelling that the favored enemy--
Laura: Well, chat, I looked it up, and I don't think I have advantage.
Matt: That's true, chat. You're wrong. (shouting)
Laura: I literally texted Matt today and I was super upset.
Zac: Did chat try to challenge the DM?
Matt: Apparently.
Laura: Seriously, I thought I had it, too, and then I looked it up. In fifth edition, I don't get that.
Matt: As a favored enemy, she gets benefits, but not specifically in battle. It's more about knowing--
Sam: I appreciate the chat. Please, keep it coming.
Mary: Couldn't that inspire Vex in some way? Don't you get an inspiration roll from the chat?
Matt: Sorry.
Felicia: You know what's good is that it's a different team next week, because we're all going to die.
Mary: No! Lyra, you're our leader, come on!
Matt: Sorry, chat. You're wrong. Tried to go with you there, but you're wrong.
Laura: I shouldn't have even said anything, I should've just gone with you. I'm an idiot.
Matt: That's okay. No worries, but thank you for being honest and wrong, chat. All right, nevertheless. It's going to do a wing attack against the giant in front of it. The giant is trying to make a dexterity saving throw. Does not. The giant is knocked prone from the wings (whoosh) buffeting it with wind as it begins to take off, knocking the giant back and dealing 13 points of bludgeoning damage. The dragon then picks up and lands right there. And rears back its head (snarling roar) and unleashes a torrent of freezing cold dragon's breath. A 60-foot cone. It's going to hit the giant, it's going to hit Lyra, and it's going to hit Percy.
Taliesin: Do I not have some cover?
Matt: Not against dragon's breath, unfortunately. So I need both of you guys to go ahead and make a constitution saving throw from the sheer freezing cold.
Felicia: Oh no. That didn't go well for me.
Sam: Plus three.
Felicia: Oh, that's true. No, that's damage.
Taliesin: 20.
Sam: Wait. She gets my inspiration on this throw.
Matt: If she chooses to use it, yes.
Felicia: Yes, I definitely want to use it.
Matt: So add a d10 to what you rolled.
Felicia: Ten! Thank god, because that's a 21.
Matt: 21, okay. All right, so both of you take half of the 54 damage it would've dealt.
Laura: 54 damage?
Matt: You both take 27 points of cold damage. The giant that had been partially disintegrated before by Lyra now takes the brunt of the frozen damage, and you can now see the ice begins to build up around it as it (gurgling) gurgles as its life's blood is now stilled. While frozen in place, the ice around its physical form holding it there as a statue of death. The giant is no more.
Travis: No!
Mary: No!
Laura: What? No!
Sam: Grog, go get his axe! It's really big!
Laura: Is it too big to carry? He's got a flaming axe right now.
Matt: All right, and that ends Rimefang's turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I would like to race back from whence I came to attack his right flank, if I could.
Matt: You could get there. You will have to make-- actually, no, you can move through there without an issue.
Travis: Also, I have darkvision up to 60 feet.
Matt: You rush up towards the dragon.
Travis: I'd like to take my Firebrand Warhammer and activate it. Ignite it.
Matt: As a bonus action. Well, it's already been ignited, you've had it flaming this whole time.
Travis: Oh, beautiful, yeah. It's like a torch, which means I can see even better. I'd like to go into a frenzied rage and start swinging away.
Matt: All right, so three attacks on the big old dragon.
Travis: 19.
Matt: 19 does hit.
Travis: Beautiful. 25.
Matt: Does hit.
Travis: And 23.
Matt: All three hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Okay, so this is the new thing. d10 plus five plus eight. Plus another--
Travis: d10?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: You're hitting with a weapon that's not as big as your greataxe, but you do an additional 1d6 fire damage when you hit.
Travis: Holy shit. Ah!
Matt: d10 and a d6 together three times. Plus eight to each.
Travis: Three d10s?
Laura: Yes. Plus 3d6.
Matt: Plus eight to what you roll on both of those.
Travis: You threw a bunch of numbers at me.
Matt: All right, so a d10 and a d6 plus eight.
Travis: 19.
Matt: 19 damage.
Travis: Do I do that three times? Oh, wow. 19, and that's 12.
Matt: 12, all right.
Travis: 12 and then, help me numbers, that's--
Laura: Oh, that's good, 16. Plus? Ooh. 21.
Matt: Nice. (whack) As you bring the warhammer down, it smacks the side of the dragon, the flames all of a sudden burst off of it from the impact, you can see as you pull back, the white scales are burned and charred and blackened behind from the first attack. You bring it back, slam again on the second part. As you do, the dragon roars out in pain, the actual force of the impact almost sending it to catch itself on the other side of its body. Its head swings around to look at whoever's slamming it in the side as you bring the hammer back, swing underneath and then hit it from underneath the bottom of its torso, right where its ribs would be, with a (crunch) crack sound. You hit it a third time, leaving a second giant charred mark where you made impact.
Travis: Yes!
Matt: That'll end your turn. Zahra, you're up.
Mary: All right, I've still got Witch Bolt.
Matt: You do.
Mary: And it's still going, yes?
Matt: You don't have to roll to attack again. You just use your action.
Mary: I just fucking keep going with the fucking Witch Bolt. Can I use a cantrip, or will that dispel the Witch Bolt?
Matt: No, because most cantrips take an action. So you would not be able to. The Witch Bolt is your action. Almost all cantrips are actions to use them, so you'd be either able to use your action and the Witch Bolt, or use the cantrip. Your choice.
Mary: No, no, I'm going to stick with Witch Bolt. I'm very happy with this.
Matt: So you focus yet again, your eyes still glowing in that strange, midnight moon color with this black smoke that's framing the side of it. You take your staff and force your will through it once again. That connection between you and the dragon and that weird swirling greenish-blue energy that surrounds the dragon connects with your staff. And as it does, it sends another bolt of otherworldly energy careening into the side of the dragon. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: I watch her with my mouth agape.
Travis: d12.
Laura: Five times.
Travis: We got you.
Mary: 12. 17.
Travis: 19.
Laura: Ooh, 30.
Travis: Ooh, 30.
Laura: 37.
Mary: 37.
Laura: And one more.
Travis: No, that's five.
Matt: That was five. Then you roll a 1d6 on top of that.
Mary: Plus two on that.
Matt: All right, so 38, then a d6 from your Hex.
Mary: Six.
Matt: So 44 points of damage.
Laura: Nice!
Matt: As it once again, a giant piece of the dragon's scales shatter off the side, like you're cracking into the center of an icy, mountainous cragside. It's starting to show a little bit of damage. You guys are definitely taking this battle head-on pretty well so far.
Travis: I don't like the way he said that.
Matt: You're going to stay where you are, or are you going to move?
Mary: How close am I to it?
Matt: You're currently 20 feet away from the dragon. 15 is between the two of you.
Mary: All right. I stay within 30 feet of it.
Matt: All right, so you want to move this way?
Mary: I want to get up to the heavens. Oh, sorry. I'm going to actually, you know what? I'm going to move three feet backwards, that's it.
Matt: Okay, so you just step back? Okay. There you go. All right. That ends Zahra's turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: How close am I?
Matt: You are currently about 20 feet away from the dragon.
Sam: All right. Yes. Hi. Scanlan here. I'll do, (singing) It's Bigby's Hand! Bigby's Hand. Shamone. I'll just punch him in his dragon face.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. You do a quick little hand gesture, hum to yourself the arcane ritual, and a very large, mystical see-through replica of your fist appears in the air above you and goes spinning off in the air in an arc. Straight up Popeye-punching towards the dragon. (laughs) Let's go ahead, and Bigby-- what do you have to roll for that?
Sam: Oh, I have to roll for that?
Matt: Let me see what the effect is on that, remind myself real fast. Bigby's Hand. All right, so it's an AC of 20. Or no, that's the hand, all right. Clenched fist, cool. So make a melee spell attack. So roll a d20 and then add your spell attack modifier.
Sam: That's the spell attack bonus thing? Okay. 19.
Matt: 19. (wham) Just barely hits as the fist goes slamming into the side of the dragon's face, big old Popeye punch to the side of the jaw. So go ahead and roll 4d8 points of force damage.
Sam: 4d8. I'm taking yours, and I hope that's okay. Ten, 13, 18, 21. Plus something?
Matt: That's 21 points of damage, nice. (whack) It gets socked in the jaw. The hand whips around again, preparing for the next round. Do you want to use anything, move, use your bonus action?
Sam: I'm 20 feet away. I will go 18 feet away from it and drop the grenade.
Matt: Okay. So you move forward right here?
Sam: Yeah, closer to it.
Matt: Okay. The grenade is right there on the ground that Percy made. All right. Going to stay where you are?
Sam: Can I keep moving?
Matt: You can keep moving. You moved 18 feet backward, you mean?
Sam: No, I had to move closer to it.
Matt: Right, so you moved three feet of your 25 feet, dropped it, and you still have 22 feet you can move.
Sam: But if I leave, he's going to whack me.
Matt: No, he's this far away. You have to be within a certain range for him to hit you.
Sam: Wait, how close did I put the grenade to him?
Matt: It's currently 18 feet away from him.
Sam: No, I wanted to put it two feet away from him.
Matt: Oh, I see! There, that makes more sense. So now there is a grenade on the ground, right there. You are there, right next to Grog. So yeah, you cannot move away without it taking a swipe.
Travis: Oh, look at that.
Sam: Hello, I'm a little gnome.
Travis: It's adorable.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn. The giant that's here gets up. That's half of its movement. It's enough to get there, moves up behind and is going to make two of its axe-swipes.
Mary: Hit him in the arse!
Felicia: Butthole.
Sam: That was crass.
Matt: 15 doesn't hit. Second attack is going to be a 13. It's rolling shit. It swings twice and manages to catch air.
Felicia: The most useless giant.
Matt: Apparently. But you know what, they didn't smash you yet. That's a good thing. That brings us to Lyra's turn.
Felicia: Question. Can I Fireball without hitting anybody who's friendly?
Matt: From this point of view, it's going to be very difficult to pull that off. It's a 20-foot radius, so it's going to hit everything within that sphere.
Travis: Oh, you actually care about us that much?
Mary: Can I use-- everybody is really close. All right.
Felicia: Okay, so I can't do that. I think I'm going to cast Hold Monster.
Matt: Hold Monster! You take your arcane thoughts and you put them around, imagining this arcane cage that begins to form out of the ether around the dragon. These bars (crash) and tighten around it. The dragon rolls a two for its saving throw. (cheering)
Matt: But it's going to use its Legendary Resistance to automatically succeed.
Felicia: How many of those does he have?!
Travis: He has one more.
Felicia: I need to move.
Matt: (laughs) The cage tightens around it, and the dragon takes its wings and (shattering) buffs it off, the arcane cage shatters and disappears into the air.
Felicia: I was going to be impressive. Okay. I'm going to get the H out. I'm going to get as far as I can in that corner. Yeah, thank you. Bye-bye.
Matt: All righty. Good to know. All right, that ends your turn. That brings us back to the top. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to-- That grenade is sitting on top of people right now, isn't it?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: You mean that hamster, right?
Matt: Your call, man.
Travis: Come on, live a little.
Taliesin: It's going to hit you.
Travis: Well, that's all right.
Laura: Yeah, but it's also going to hit Scanlan.
Matt: You still have disadvantage on your attacks, by the way.
Taliesin: Even if my attack is not against the dragon?
Matt: As long as it's within eyesight of you, you're scared.
Taliesin: Okay, in that case, I'm going to take a shot at the dragon for the moment.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Forget about that.
Matt: Disadvantage on the shot.
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: 19. That's with disadvantage? Does hit. (cheering)
Taliesin: Oh, that's nice. 26 points of damage.
Matt: 26 points of damage, nice.
Sam: Hey! Percy.
Taliesin: I have moments.
Matt: All right, and you reload with the other one. You can't move closer to it. Do you wish to move at all?
Taliesin: No, I'm going to hold my position.
Matt: Okay. Before the end of your turn--
Taliesin: I was about to say, before I do that, I'm going to use a bonus action to do a quick heal. I'm going to use second wind.
Matt: Oh, a second wind, go for it. So you go ahead and heal yourself 1d10 plus your level.
Taliesin: That's 11 points of damage.
Matt: There you go. So you heal 11 points of damage. Before your turn is over, it's going to use its last legendary action to take its tail and swing around and whack it at the gnome that it heard sneak up behind it and drop something on the ground. That's going to be a natural 20. (shouting)
Laura: He said it so happily, too. Evil.
Taliesin: You're in trouble.
Sam: Wait, what did he do?
Matt: As you drop it, you look up and see its tail go (whoosh, whack).
Sam: Whoa, but can I sing real quick?
Matt: It's a natural 20. There's no way you can avoid this hit.
Sam: Maybe it'll fling me away from the grenade.
Felicia: (singing) Bye bye bye.
Travis: No, not cool!
Matt: 36 points of bludgeoning damage as the tail slams down onto you.
Laura: And also onto the grenade.
Sam: But it's not a concussion grenade.
Travis: Oh, I'm right fucking there! I was going to move!
Laura: I'm sorry!
Matt: And down onto the grenade you set on the ground. (boom)
Sam: Is it a concussion grenade? It's already armed, isn't it?
Matt: It is filled with black powder, and is a triggerable mechanism.
Laura: I'm sorry. I don't know why I said that.
Matt: I appreciate the reminder, because I totally forgot for a second. As it slams into you and the ground, it slams into the grenade and there's an explosion muffled sound from underneath its tail. I want Grog and Scanlan to go ahead and make dexterity saving throws.
Travis: Yes! 21.
Laura: Come on, Scanlan.
Sam: 20.
Matt: All right. Both of you guys manage to keep low to the ground, avoiding most of the blast.
Sam: I'm already low to the ground.
Matt: All right. Both of you guys take half damage from the strike. You both take 12 points of fire and bludgeoning damage.
Laura: Did the dragon take damage?
Matt: The dragon does not make its saving throw against it, though, and takes the full-- what'd I tell you guys? 12?
Sam: All right! The grenade worked! (cheering)
Matt: Pulls its tail up, and there's like a big arc of smoke off of its tail as it pulls it up and shakes out the pain that it just suffered.
Taliesin: Can I take this moment of engineering success to try and pull a wisdom saving throw against my fear that I missed on my turn?
Matt: That's right, forgot that. So go ahead and make your wisdom saving throw. The explosion was the inspiration you required.
Taliesin: Natural 20! (cheering)
Taliesin: It worked! (cackles)
Matt: With the explosion the grenade set off, you realize, wait, you might actually have this, and it worked! You could do this!
Taliesin: I built a thing! And it blew up! Kind of on purpose!
Matt: There you go. At the end of your turn, that's its final legendary action. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Can I try to shake off the attack?
Matt: At the end of your turn, you do.
Laura: Oh, at the end. But I was inspired by that explosion!
Matt: It was inspiring. It may help you shake it off at the end of the round.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to attack it. Oh, that's such a good roll.
Mary: That is. Oh, that's even better!
Laura: That's okay. It was a disadvantage. That's 27 with a disadvantage with the exploding arrow.
Matt: With the Exploding Arrow? That does hit.
Travis: More Percy goodness.
Laura: So what do I do? Do I just roll regular?
Matt: So go ahead and roll regular arrow damage. With an additional 2d6. Sorry, 3d6. Well, with the arrow, it's 2d6. The grenade was 3d6. You're 2d6.
Laura: Oh shit. 16 and then 3d6?
Matt: 3d8, sorry.
Laura: 3d8?!
Matt: Sorry. 3d8 was the grenade. 2d8 for the exploding arrow. 2d8.
Laura: 2d8.
Matt: Sorry. It's a lot of numbers.
Laura: That's okay, I'm going to roll them both. Okay. Six additional. Did I say what my other damage was. Was I speaking out loud?
Matt: Yeah, no. I marked it down. I also need Scanlan and Grog to make dexterity saving throws.
Laura: Oh no, I'm sorry, I'm stupid!
Sam: Wait, what did you just shoot at us?
Laura: An exploding arrow!
Sam: Nice.
Travis: 18.
Sam: 11.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I also meant to say I was shooting from my Blood-Seeker Bow. I pulled it out and said I was going to do it.
Matt: You pull out your Blood-Seeker Bow?
Laura: I was going to shoot from my Blood-Seeker Bow for that.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Can I do that?
Matt: I'll let it. So it is now taking an ongoing ten points of bleeding damage? Now, you take three points of fire damage. Scanlan, you take six points of fire damage. You guys avoid the grenade, and then (arrow noises) a second explosion again.
Taliesin: I'm sorry. I'm a genius! I'm sorry! Sorry! Oh god, I'm clever.
Laura: So for my second attack, I want to throw Trinket in and I want Trinket to go up and attack him.
Matt: Trinket rushes in and is going to make two attacks at it.
Laura: He's going to do two claw attacks, so that's 2d4 each time.
Matt: Go for it. So go ahead and roll for the first strike. He's no longer scared, so Trinket does not have the disadvantage.
Laura: Okay, he doesn't hit on the first one. But the second one, he gets a 21!
Matt: 21 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Yes! Okay. Was I wrong?
Mary: That's 23.
Laura: Oh, okay. Either way.
Matt: It hits even harder!
Mary: It hits harder?
Matt: (Irish accent) Exactly. What's that about? Rightly so.
Laura: That's 13 extra damage for Trinket.
Matt: 13 extra damage as Trinket runs up, first strike hits the armor and just streaks across without damage, but as soon as the dragon turns around to see the giant brown bear that has gotten brave enough to strike it, its other claw goes and sinks into the side of one of its calves and tears a portion of the dragon's flesh. It (snarls) roars and Trinket, bringing its claw down, roars back at it. Dragon roar versus bear roar. All right. That ends your turn. It is now Rimefang's turn. Rimefang--
Mary: He has no more of these legendary saves, yes?
Sam: No, he has one.
Matt: Well, one more legendary resistance.
Felicia: He used a wing-buffet and then two saves.
Sam: He's got one more.
Felicia: Oh, one more save. Ugh.
Sam: If he chooses to use it. He might save it for later in the fight.
Matt: Great. So the dragon is now going to (flapping) fly--
Sam: No, he won't. I cast a spell on it as it retreats from me because I am a war caster.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: And I will cast Bigby's Hand to grapple that shit and pull him back down. (cheering)
Matt: That's right, you took the war caster feat. Okay.
Sam: Don't you fly away from me, motherfucker!
Travis: So hot for you right now.
Matt: All right, so you use your action to do Bigby's Clenched, no, Grasping Hand. No, it's--
Sam: It's the grapple one to pull its wings together so it can't fly away?
Matt: Yes. All right, so. So you use the hand's strength score, so go ahead and roll a d20 and then add plus eight to it.
Sam: 18 plus eight. 26.
Matt: As the dragon brings its wings up, the hand grabs its wings together and forces it back down to the ground. It shakes off the effect, but it's unable to fly away.
Sam: You will leave when Burt Reynolds tells you to leave! (laughter)
Matt: Okay. You also deal 2d6 plus five damage to it.
Sam: 2d6. That's another 18.
Matt: 18 points of damage as the hand crushes on it, holding it in place, it does not get a chance to move. All right. Angrily, in reaction to that, the dragon-- well, first off let me see. Does not get its breath weapon back yet, unfortunately. It is going to use multiattack, so it gets three attacks: one bite and two claw attacks. It's going to make all of them against you.
Sam: Of course it does. And thus ends Scanlan.
Travis: No!
Mary: No!
Matt: We'll make each attack as it goes. So the first attack against you is going to be the bite attack. That is a 23 to hit?
Sam: That hits.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Are you unconscious?
Sam: I will be very soon.
Matt: That's going to be 18 points of piercing damage.
Laura: Oh no, Scanlan's unconscious!
Matt: Are you unconscious? Okay. It would be an additional d8 points of cold damage. Scanlan falls unconscious on the ground. It's going to take a claw attack down. It's already all-in. Its second claw attack hits. You immediately fail a death saving throw from the second strike. The second claw attack hits you, as well, as it's focused on you. You've failed two death saving throws.
Laura: Oh my god!
Sam: It's a dragon.
Matt: That's the end of his turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I race over to Scanlan and I pour a level-3 healing potion into Scanlan's mouth.
Matt: Okay, so Grog, you use your action to pull out, grab Scanlan, and pour it into his mouth. This is the superior one?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: You heal 8d4 plus eight hit points.
Sam: Do I roll? Does he roll?
Matt: I'll let you roll for it; it's fine.
Sam: 8d4? Can I roll 4d8s?
Matt: (laughs) 8d4.
Sam: 8d4.
Matt: You have a better chance, actually.
Travis: This is my friend of the lady favors. I need him!
Matt: As you see the dragon bites down on him, he falls unconscious on the ground, the ice around his wounds, and his eyes just roll back into his head, unconscious. One claw slams down into his body, the gnome shakes from the impact. The second claw comes down into his torso and pulls back, you can see bits of flesh and muscle pull back from its claw as it pulls away, and Scanlan's on death's door. You rush over and grab and lift him up, take the healing potion, pop off the cork with your teeth, and you rage-feed him the potion. "Drink it!"
Sam: I'm at 19 now.
Matt: So you're at 19 hit points and you're conscious now, the wounds seal up. You've still failed two death saving throws. They're gone until the end of the battle.
Travis: Can I do anything else after I've poured it into his-- can I do anything else?
Matt: You have a bonus action.
Travis: Can I throw him the fuck away from the dragon? Pick him up and chuck him towards Lyra?
Matt: I'll say because you're frenzied raged, normally you would get an additional attack. I will say you can use that.
Travis: And I won't throw. I'll slide him on the icy floor towards Lyra.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Travis: Okay. Natural 20. (cheering)
Matt: As he wakes up, Grog goes (grunts, whoosh) and slip-n-slides you across the icy floor. You come to a stop about 15 feet away-- actually, be about there. You're still prone; you're on the ground.
Laura: But you can take a potion on your turn, at least?
Travis: And I just turn around and give it the eyebrow of you're-fucking-dead.
Matt: (laughs) All right. That ends Grog's turn. Zahra, you're up.
Mary: Witch Bolt. Fucking Witch Bolt.
Matt: By the way, your Bigby's Hand has faded, because when you fell unconscious you lost concentration. Witch Bolt?
Mary: If you're still within range. I push even harder for Scanlan's sake.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and roll 5d12, I believe it is?
Mary: The fire turns from white to yellow. I'm raging. What is it?
Matt: Whatever the spell is. Is it 5d10 or 5d12?
Mary: It is 5d12.
Matt: There you go. 5d12 plus 1d6.
Mary: Eight. Give me some math here, guys.
Travis: Okay. 14. 29. 45.
Mary: 45 plus two.
Laura: 47.
Mary: Plus 11 attack.
Laura: No, 47, and 1d6.
Mary: 1d6. Six.
Matt: All right, so what's the total damage on that, then?
Laura: 53.
Mary: 51.
Matt: 51 points of damage.
Travis: Did I best you on math? It's a dark day when Grog beats Vex on math.
Mary: She's very upset about the whole Scanlan thing.
Laura: I'm still very scared!
Matt: That is nasty. All right, so. As you blast again, the fury of seeing Scanlan torn down to the ground and nearly devoured by this dragon, you blast again. This time the greenish-blue energy flaring up into a vibrant, angry yellow, and now you can see what once was almost like a bolt of arcane moon energy becomes an actual burning fire in its visual. Do you wish to move, or are you going to stay where you are?
Mary: I'm still how many feet away from him?
Matt: You are currently 20 feet away from him.
Mary: I will stay where I am.
Matt: All right.
Mary: Can I give-- no I can't, I'd have to go and give it to him, wouldn't I?
Matt: At the end of your turn, because it's regained its legendary actions, it's going to use a wing attack against Grog and every creature around it, including Trinket and the one giant. So as it takes the hit from the Witch Bolt, (heavy breathing) the arcane hand no longer grasping its wings, its wings flare out, (whoosh) and swings around with its wings, hitting everything around you. Dexterity saving throw for Grog, for the giant, and for Trinket. Giant does not make it.
Travis: 18.
Matt: 18, it's a DC 19. Make it for Trinket.
Laura: Ten.
Matt: All right, so Trinket and Grog both take 13 points of bludgeoning damage and are both knocked prone.
Travis: Halved, because I'm raging.
Laura: Halved, because he's got Stoneskin.
Matt: Yeah. Trinket takes half damage, as well. So you both take seven points of bludgeoning damage, but you're still knocked prone. You both fall onto your back. The giant also is knocked prone there. All right. That ends Zahra's turn. That brings us to Scanlan. You're conscious. You're on the ground.
Sam: I will stand.
Matt: All right. So you still have half your movement. You can still move roughly ten feet. Any direction.
Sam: Taking a potion is an action or a bonus?
Matt: I consider it a bonus action to keep things moving. Action to administer it to somebody else.
Travis: Do that thing.
Sam: I will Dimension Door way over there.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. Scanlan stands up, waves his hand, and this blackened archway just (whoosh) appears next to him with this crackling sound of energy. He leaps through it and vanishes out of sight. You are now in darkness, you cannot see anything except for a little bit of light bouncing off of the top of the cavern, glittering across all the ice crystals, but you are in complete shadow. (breathing heavily)
Sam: And I'll take one of those four healing potions that someone gave us. Were they moderate?
Matt: They were superior. I think Grog used one.
Felicia: Yeah, we handed them out.
Sam: Okay, I definitely have one, so I'll take it.
Matt: 8d4 plus eight.
Laura: Who all took them?
Mary: I didn't, because I have two.
Felicia: I don't think she and I took them.
Laura: Oh, the four of us, because we're assholes?
Matt: I think you each took one.
Felicia: I sacrificed myself.
Matt: So we'll consider that. It's fine. All right, so that ends Scanlan's turn. The giant is going to get up.
Travis: Get up, Gary, you piece of shit!
Matt: That would be a 21. That hits. And that'll be a 17. That misses. But it does manage to hit with an attack, finally. This whole time. That's 24 points of slashing damage to the dragon. As its first strike whiffs, and as it brings it back with a backhand, it brings its shield up to protect itself. The axe (smack) lands a good seven to eight inches into the dragon's hide. (roars) The head turns around. "You traitor! I will eat every one of you!" That ends the giant's turn. It's going to stay right there, trying to finish him off. That ends the giant's turn. Lyra, you're up.
Felicia: I still can't Fireball, right?
Matt: You could? Depending on where you want to place it, you may hit other things.
Laura: You can place it-- hit the giant and the dragon.
Felicia: Then the giant will wake up. If we hit the giants-- does he look almost dead?
Matt: You can tell he's taken a few hits from the dragon, but the other one is the one that was completely wrecked.
Laura: Is the other giant dead?
Matt: It is frozen in place and dead. It was partially disintegrated by Lyra earlier, and the frost breath finished it off.
Felicia: I could maybe hit Trinket or Grog?
Sam: Trinket's protected.
Felicia: I don't think he's protected from fire damage. It's a lot of damage. I don't want to kill Trinket.
Travis: Is it fire, and it's a frost dragon?
Felicia: It's a very big spell. It's 8d6. Can't really use it. I'll try to Hold Monster again.
Laura: How much radius does the dragon take up?
Matt: The dragon itself is 15 feet across on each side, so if you were to hit the dragon, it would still hit everything directly around it.
Felicia: Yeah, let me try to Hold Monster again. At least force him to use his thing.
Matt: All right. Actually, he fails his saving throw, but uses his third and final legendary resistance to resist the Hold Monster spell.
Taliesin: Good, you drained it. That's over with.
Matt: He's out of legendary resistance. He turns around and looks at you now. It was currently glaring at the giant, growling at everyone around it, and as soon as that spell hits it with the cage once again, (heavy impacts) it breaks it with its wings and turns around, (whoosh) and opens its mouth right towards you.
Felicia: I'm going to move away as far as I can.
Matt: Okay. So you are here.
Felicia: Yes. That's very far. Yes. Thank you.
Matt: Okay. All right, that ends your turn. Back up to Percy.
Taliesin: All right, I'm going to take one last really good shot. I'm going to shoot him right in the face again. I'm going to spend my grit point and hit him in the face. Let's make this work. Yay! That hits. That's 31 to hit.
Matt: 31 will hit, yeah. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: I'm going to roll damage. That's 15 points of damage, but he's got disadvantage on all attacks until my turn.
Matt: He did take ten points of bleeding damage from your-- Laura. It did take ten points of bleeding damage from your bow, and it does save against the bleed effect, so that's gone, unfortunately. But you did ten additional damage to him.
Taliesin: I'm going to move in this direction. Hug the wall.
Matt: Right there?
Taliesin: Yeah, I think right there.
Matt: Okay. So as you take your shot, (gunshot) it ricochets off the armor. The dragon's starting to look a little rough. You can see bits of the blood beginning to seep from the inside of its scales. It's starting to look a little harsher and harsher. It's still standing up pretty well, but you can see, it's starting to get a little more battle-worn. That ends Percy's turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Me?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to move Trinket away.
Matt: Trinket stands up, and Trinket's going to move back this way.
Laura: Yeah, and then hide behind that outcropping thing. Yeah.
Matt: Okay. As he moves away, the dragon uses his reaction. It's going to be a bite attack on him, actually.
Taliesin: With disadvantage.
Matt: With disadvantage?
Taliesin: With disadvantage.
Matt: Oh, because of the head shot. Yeah. Well, it rolled a two and a 15. (cheering)
Matt: So thank god you put that on there. So as it (whoosh) lashes out, Trinket's armor actually takes the impact, and some of the teeth crack a little bit against the armor, and the jaw pulls back as Trinket just (bear moan) runs off behind the ice wall. What are you doing?
Laura: I'm going to cast Hail of Thorns.
Matt: Did you make a wisdom save last turn to try to resist the fear effect?
Laura: I did, and I failed it.
Matt: That's right. Okay.
Laura: Yeah. So I'm going to cast Hail of Thorns on the dragon.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll for attack.
Laura: 26.
Matt: 26 hits, yes. Hail of Thorns. What's the radius on that?
Laura: That's a good question. Hail of Thorns.
Matt: (laughs) How's that go?
Laura: Okay, wait. Next time you hit a creature with a ranged weapon-- spell-- range. It just hits it, but then everything within five feet makes a dexterity saving throw. Sorry, guys.
Matt: So Grog, make a dexterity saving throw. Because you're prone, I'd say with disadvantage.
Laura: Oh. Sorry, Grog.
Travis: Nine?
Matt: Actually, you're fine. Just straight roll.
Travis: Oh, great. 18.
Matt: 18? All right. You take half of the 1d10 piercing damage. So roll for the actual arrow damage, and then 1d10. The giant does not make it, and the dragon does not make it. They both fail.
Laura: 13 for the actual arrow, plus another five for Hunter's Mark.
Matt: All right. What's the 1d10 for the Hail of Thorns?
Laura: 3d10 because I'm casting it at 3rd level. 18 for the Hail of Thorns.
Matt: 18. So that's nine points of damage to you, Grog. Nine points to the giant, and nine points to the dragon. All right.
Laura: Oh. And then I get another attack.
Matt: You do. You have two attacks.
Laura: (giggles) This is crazy! Okay, so I'm going to-- should I do Conjure Barrage? Conjure Barrage at them, as well.
Matt: All right. Conjure Barrage is an action to cast, right?
Laura: Oh, you're right. So a regular. I can only do a regular attack. Okay, so regular attack. Oh, that doesn't hit. That's a 16.
Matt: That unfortunately does not hit. Well, it hits, but the arrow shatters across the dragon's armor. All right, that ends your turn. As the giant takes a blasting impact of thorns across its torso, it looks to the dragon, Rimefang. Looks at the rest of you, which some of you have fallen, some of you are on the ground. It decides that perhaps it chose its alliances poorly. And you can see, it takes its axe and shield ready, and almost in a phalanx format is now alongside the dragon. All right, that brings us to Rimefang's turn. Rimefang is going to (flapping) fly up in the air.
Travis: Oh, he's reaching for shit. He duplicates himself into another dragon. Now you're all dead.
Matt: Now he's going to--
Travis: Oh no, the ale's gone!
Matt: This way, up at the top, and is currently up in the air (flapping). Let's see. He gets his cold breath back. Oh, did you roll to try and shake the frightened effect, by the way?
Laura: I didn't.
Matt: Go ahead and do that now.
Mary: Come on, darling. Come on!
Laura: Natural 20!
Travis: Natural 20!
Matt: That will do it. As you shake the frightened effect, you're like, "Ah! All right." You're steeled. "No, I know these guys. I'm trying to kill these guys." As you see it fly overhead. Rears back its head and then (whoosh) arc across the ground with its breath weapon, hitting Percy, Vex, and Lyra. You guys all need to make constitution saving throws.
Taliesin: Oh, so there's no disadvantage roll for him to make here, is there?
Matt: No.
Felicia: 23.
Matt: 23 on the constitution saving throw?
Felicia: Yeah, I actually. I get five constitution, and I rolled an 18.
Taliesin: 15.
Matt: 15? What did you roll, Vex?
Laura: 18.
Matt: 18. All right. (chuckles) So as the ice breath (whoosh) passes across, it's like every center point of the worst ice storm or blizzard impacting you with a series of punches every single second as this breath caresses and beats your body left and right. Both of you guys take 54 points of cold damage.
Taliesin: 54?
Matt: 54. Lyra, you take 27 points of cold damage.
Travis: And the room gets quiet.
Mary: Really fast.
Matt: It continues its flight pattern (flapping, impacts) and lands on top of this upper platform.
Laura: Oh, he's got another fucking platform?
Sam: How high up?
Matt: That's ten feet up. There are two platforms on opposite sides of this room now. That ends its turn. It is now Grog's turn.
Travis: That giant is definitely against us?
Matt: It looks to be questioning its loyalty at the moment, yeah.
Travis: You questioned at the wrong time. I charge Gary and hack away.
Matt: All right. You get up, and you have enough movement, definitely, to move up into battle with him. Go ahead and attack.
Travis: (laughs) What do I do, again? What is this shit? This thing plus five. 16. No, attack bonus.
Matt: You have to hit first. You have to roll to hit.
Travis: I know. Jesus! It's like I've never done this before. 24.
Laura: No, that was higher than 24.
Travis: 16 plus nine? Oh, it's 25.
Matt: Hits. Roll a second attack.
Travis: 28.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: And 20.
Matt: 20 hits. Roll damage against the giant.
Travis: (quietly) What is this, 1d10 plus five? Oh, that's ten. 18. 18?
Laura: Plus six fire damage.
Travis: Oh.
Laura: Six!
Travis: 24 on the first one.
Matt: Nice.
Travis: Sorry, new math. 13 plus-- 17 on the second one.
Matt: All right, and the third one?
Travis: 12, plus-- 15 on the third one.
Matt: As you rush forward, (whack, whack) the first two hits, one hits in the side, and you can see it (grunts) reacts. The second one, it brings its shield up, and you splinter the buckler shield on its arm, and as it shatters, you can see the bones in its arm (crunch) crack from the impact, and it drops its arm to one side, with the flames itself beginning to set fire to the furs it has on its arm. (grunts) He tries to shake off the fire that's on its arm. As you see it bring its arm up, it reveals the underside of its torso. You use that to reach down, leap in the air with an overhead swipe, slam this warhammer with all your strength into the side of its ribcage. As you do, (crack) you can see its torso cave in, and you're probably sure that the splintered bones seem to have impacted something serious as the giant all of a sudden, (death rattle). (cheering)
Mary: Dead? Dead!
Matt: From the damage left over from the battle you had earlier, the damage it already took from the dragon, and that was just enough to finish it off by two hit points. That ends your turn, Grog. Zahra, you're up.
Mary: How far away from the dragon am I?
Matt: You are 30 feet away.
Mary: That's exactly right, which means Witch Bolt is still in effect, and I'm going to fucking unleash on this white wyrm of death.
Matt: All right! (boof) A third time, now, you release Witch Bolt. It slams into it. The dragon actually tries to shift out of the way--
Mary: He can't.
Matt: He can't, because you're locked in.
Mary: You can't get away from me.
Matt: Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Creepy Zahra!
Mary: Creepy Zahra. Well, I am a demon. All right. 11.
Travis: 27. 39. 48. 1d6. 53.
Mary: 53.
Felicia: Damn!
Travis: You bad bitch!
Matt: All right, so. It tries to dodge out of the way. This time, as you focus again, the yellowish energy has now transitioned to a deep, hot, searing red flame from your eyes.
Mary: Oh, you can't run!
Matt: (boof) You focus again. The beam now, transitioning into a similar red-hot color, streaks across and slams into the side of the dragon. You can see the impact. The scales are left with this glowing red heat from the blast, and part of its armor is torn open. You can see the burn-charred muscle beneath. The dragon's looking pretty rough. Do you wish to move, or are you staying right there?
Mary: I'm going to approach it by five feet.
Matt: There you go. That brings us to Scanlan's turn. You are way over here.
Sam: I will first use my bonus action on myself. Can I cast Healing Word on myself?
Matt: Yeah. Sure.
Sam: Okay, d4 plus five. That's nothing. Actually, wait. Can I just take a potion as a bonus action?
Matt: If you want to, yeah.
Sam: Okay, I'll just do that. I'll take a greater heal. 4d4 plus four.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: Anyway, I'll roll it later. Sorry. (counts quietly) Plus four is 11. Okay, I'm pretty much back up to--
Matt: There you go. Are you going to stay where you are?
Sam: I'm how far?
Matt: You are over here.
Sam: But how far?
Matt: Oh. It's 90 feet away from you.
Sam: (whispering) Sniper shot. (louder) From the shadows, I cast Lightning Bolt, which has a hundred-foot range.
Matt: It does, and because it's high enough--
Sam: If the angle is nice and clean.
Matt: Yes, that's true. So out of the darkness, release a bolt of energy. It's going to attempt to make a saving throw. What's the DC on it?
Sam: It's my spell? What is it?
Matt: Yeah, it's whatever your spell DC is.
Sam: 17?
Matt: 17, okay. It does make its saving throw, so it is half damage. Go ahead and roll. Rolled a 16 plus five.
Sam: It was 8d6, but now it's 4d6, right?
Matt: No, it's 8d6 still. You roll the total, and it's halved.
Sam: All right, what is that? (counts quietly) 26. 13.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Yes, dude. Way not to be dead.
Felicia: Way to not die.
Travis: I need my whoring partner.
Matt: All right, at the end of your turn, it's going to use one of its legendary actions to make a tail attack and reach over the side here at Percy, who's trying to stay hidden there. Brings around his tail. (whoosh) Comes swinging down over the side. Another natural 20. (groaning)
Felicia: He looks disappointed.
Laura: He doesn't want us to die.
Felicia: It's going to happen.
Mary: No! Would you stop it, Lyra? Come on!
Felicia: I'm sorry. I have self-esteem issues.
Mary: Not today, you don't.
Matt: 32 points of bludgeoning damage to you, Percy. (whack) From over the top.
Taliesin: I'm out.
Matt: Percy is down as the tail (whack) slams him down. You can see now, as the tail pulls back, the ice on the ground is slightly concave. There's pieces of ice that have shattered and jutted up from the impact. As the tail pulls away, dropping chunks of stone and ice, you can see a currently unconscious Percy is now face-down and pushed probably a good half-foot into the ground itself. Your face is a mess, if they ever pull you up from that right now.
Taliesin: I like my face.
Matt: That ends Scanlan's turn. The giant is dead. There are no giants; they're gone. Lyra, you're up.
Felicia: Okay, I can Fireball him now. (cheering)
Felicia: Fireball. Ooh, that looks pretty good! Six and six and six.
Laura: Come on, Lyra. Killing blow.
Travis: Nuke him. Nuke the bastard.
Felicia: So that's 18, 28, 38, 52. 52 points of damage.
Matt: 52 points? And what's the DC on your spell?
Felicia: It's no DC. It just hits.
Matt: Right, but it has a save.
Felicia: 17.
Matt: 17. Okay, it rolled a 15 plus five, so it is half damage, but that's still 26 points of damage to it.
Felicia: It's not bad.
Matt: (explosion noise) As you reach out, this arcing bead of red streaks through the darkness, impacts right at the side of the dragon's wing, and then (boof) bursts into a giant ball of flame. The whole cavern rocks from the sound of the impact. As the dragon pulls back, you can see this giant char mark on the outside of its wing. It's looking pretty rough. It's still standing, but it's looking pretty rough. Unfortunately, the radius of the blast, as it is a 20-foot radius, is large enough. Percy, his body is hit in the impact and blasted onto its back now. He rolls partly out of the impact--
Taliesin: Do I actually roll?
Matt: You actually (boof) over there. You're still technically in the same spot, but you're on your back now. You do automatically fail a death saving throw from that.
Felicia: Oh my god, I'm so sorry.
Matt: All right, that ends Lyra's turn. That brings us to the top. Percy. Make a saving throw. Just roll a ten or higher.
Taliesin: I did not roll a ten or higher.
Matt: You fail a second death saving throw.
Sam: Oh god!
Matt: Vex, you're up.
Laura: (screams) Okay, here's the thing. Did he roll far enough away that he is not within ten feet of the dragon?
Matt: The dragon is ten feet up.
Laura: So he's far enough away.
Matt: In theory, he'd be just out of the way of a ten-foot radius. A 20-foot radius, no.
Laura: Okay, then I'm going to Lightning Arrow the dragon.
Matt: Okay.
Felicia: Do you have a potion?
Travis: I do.
Taliesin: Grog's got it.
Laura: Do I have to attack? I do have to attack regular.
Matt: You do have to roll the attack, yes.
Laura: That's good. That's a 29.
Matt: 29 hits.
Laura: Okay, so that is 4d8 against the dragon.
Matt: Yeah, 4d8 lightning damage. What's the DC on it?
Laura: 14.
Matt: 14? It does not make the save. Rolled a three.
Sam: Come on, Vex. Come on. Do it for Trinket.
Travis: Do it for Percy. Do it for Pike.
Taliesin: Let's not have another Pike, please.
Laura: 17.
Matt: Plus your Hunter's Mark.
Laura: That's good. That's another six for Hunter's Mark. Plus another 11.
Matt: Plus another 11. Okay. As the arrow releases, once again, (arrow flying) it turns into a bolt of pure arcane energy, smacking into the side of it. You can see the explosion hit and the energy crackle through the rest of its body. Its muscles shudder and it has to grasp the side of the top of this platform to keep itself steady. You can see now, the dragon's (heavy breathing). One eye is partially closed, and with each breath you can see this frost mist emanating from its breath. It looks like it's on its last legs.
Laura: For my second attack-- (cheering)
Laura: For my second attack, I'm going to regular attack him. Oh my god. Just going to regular attack him.
Matt: Roll for attack.
Laura: Jesus. Please. Oh! It's 30.
Matt: 30 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: 13, 14, 15.
Matt: Including the Hunter's Mark?
Laura: No! Four.
Matt: Okay, so 19 total? Okay. As the arrow (arrow flying, impacts) embeds itself in the side of the neck, the dragon reaches up and it's scratching at the pain. As it pulls the arrow out, blood begins to pour down its side.
Laura: Ugh, he's still alive!
Matt: It's rough. That ends your turn.
Laura: Fuck! Is it his turn?
Matt: It is now Rimefang's turn. Rimefang turns. (heavy breaths, roars) and lets out a spray of icy damage out in this direction at an arc this way. I need to get a dexterity saving throw from Lyra, from Vex, and from Zahra.
Mary: Do I have a reaction?
Matt: After this, you will.
Mary: Okay, got it.
Felicia: Eight.
Matt: Eight?
Laura: 28.
Matt: 28. Okay. Zahra?
Mary: 11.
Matt: 11. Okay, so that is 54 points of damage to you.
Felicia: I'm down.
Matt: Lyra is currently (crackles) frozen in place right now from the blast. She's unconscious, and there is a coat of ice around her body holding her in place. How are you doing on hit points?
Laura: I'm at 28 hit points.
Matt: Okay, you kick the frost off, and you're on one knee. And you take 54 points of ice damage.
Laura: Are you unconscious, too?
Mary: Nope. I'm not. Do I have a reaction?
Matt: You have a reaction?
Mary: I do, I use Hellish Rebuke.
Sam: Oh! What is that? It sounds hellish.
Mary: I know. I get one per day.
Matt: All right, so the creature must make a dexterity saving throw.
Laura: So it does it back to him?
Mary: Yes.
Matt: That is 15. What's the DC?
Mary: I don't know.
Laura: 17.
Mary: 17.
Matt: Okay, so it takes 2d10 fire damage. Go ahead and roll that.
Laura: Yes! Oh my god, you can kill it just because it attacked you?!
Taliesin: Kill it out of spite.
Felicia: Tell him he's very ugly.
Mary: Nine.
Matt: Nine points of fire damage? How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Mary: I don't know what that means!
Matt: How do you finish this dragon with your Hellish Rebuke?
Taliesin: Make it good!
Matt: After it finishes blasting you with ice damage, you watch the wizard frozen in place. You see Percy unconscious and bleeding on the ground. You see Vex on the ground, about to fall unconscious. Your friends are lost in the darkness around you, and suddenly you feel that tiefling surge of anger within you, and you?
Mary: Almost completely turn into flame as I walk towards it. Can I use anything?
Matt: How do you want the Hellish Rebuke to be?
Mary: I want this Hellish Rebuke to be me levitating in the air and using my dark dragon staff to blast it from here down, just eviscerating everything from the bowels down with hellish fire.
Matt: So after the frost takes on the front of you, and there is ice caked against the front of your armor, you suddenly look up at it and as your eyes flare with flame, the ice (shatters) evaporates from the sheer heat your body's emanating. You take a step forward, but the step itself is about an inch off the ground. A second step, you're two inches off the ground. And with each progressive step, you're slowly floating in the air, the warlock energy now swirling around you. The shadows are spinning around you and coalescing around your feet. As you look forward towards it, you see the portion of its armor that was blasted open earlier, with its flesh and sinew exposed. You take the staff forward, and with an angry snarl, the one last blast of infernal energy, the Hellish Rebuke then (shooting sound) sinking into the side of its chest. As the inside of its flesh begins to spark and smoke, the dragon (grunts) reaches out and grabs the side. It's beginning to try to bring its wings up to fly away, and as it does, (explosion noise) a blast of infernal flame comes cascading out of its chest. You can see now, all of its armor begins to peel back as its chest is blown open. Its eyes suddenly go from this piercing blue-white to a dull gray color, and it reaches out, and (heavy breathing) "No." It tumbles forward onto the ground next to Percy, almost crushing his unconscious form. It gets up, (impacts) takes two more steps forward. "No. You can't."
Mary: Yes, I fucking can! (cheering)
Matt: And with that, Rimefang falls dead to the ground. (cheering)
Sam: I run over to Lyra, cast Seeming on myself to give myself the appearance of Aldor, and I pour a potion into her mouth, and I wake her up.
Felicia: What happened?
Sam: You did good, baby.
Felicia: (gasps) And I'm just in him. (laughter)
Travis: I run over to Percy and pour a healing potion in his mouth, and I don't "in him." (laughter)
Matt: You can just barely get there with your movement. Thank god you're a barbarian.
Taliesin: Oh! What happened? Oh, look. It's dead!
Mary: Hello, Percy.
Laura: Oh my god. I stand up and I give Zahra a giant hug.
Taliesin: Can we cut that bastard up for scrap now? Ugh.
Laura: You were amazing.
Mary: Forever besties?
Felicia: Wait, then I notice. Aldor, why are you so short?
Sam: Baby. I can't change height, so I release Seeming and I'm back to normal.
Felicia: That was not as good a kiss as usual. I was worried, but it was special.
Travis: Oh! (laughter)
Mary: Is it time to take what we need from this thing?
Laura: Gather up all of the shit we have to take and put it in the bag of stuff.
Taliesin: That would be  two white dragon eyes, one white dragon tongue, one white dragon heart, six white dragon claws, and 20 white dragon teeth.
Matt: Who's harvesting this?
Mary: You have the bag.
Felicia: It's nature. Who has good animal handling?
Laura: Wait, we have to harvest it special?
Matt: Part of harvesting the organs from the creature is a delicate process.
Laura: Is it nature? What is it a check for?
Matt: It's a nature-based check, yes.
Laura: I have a low nature. What do you have?
Taliesin: Very low nature.
Mary: I have a six nature. Can I harvest him?
Matt: You can.
Travis: Can I go and loot the giant that's not frozen?
Matt: You can. You can also help with this roll.
Sam: Inspiration? Okay. I inspire them.
Matt: How do you inspire Zahra as she goes to start carving into this dragon?
Sam: I will sing something. I don't know what. I'm so out of it. We just killed a dragon! (laughter)
Sam: I go over to her and I'm like, (incoherent, impressed stammering). And that's all I got.
Matt: And with that, you killed a dragon.
Mary: It was a group effort.
Laura: Can I help at all? Can I assist? Can I hold her utensils for her?
Matt: Between the two of you working together, that would give you advantage on the checks. Which one are you going for first? Are you going for the eyes? Choose which portion you're harvesting first.
Laura: Everything. We need all of it, don't we?
Matt: Yeah, but which part are you harvesting first? You choose with each roll. You have eyes, heart--
Felicia: Can I assist? Can I help?
Matt: We already have an assist over there.
Felicia: I want to be helpful.
Laura: We'll all stand and watch.
Taliesin: Start with the eyes.
Laura: Pop them out. Pop those bitches out. But you get an advantage.
Matt: You will get advantage on it because she's assisting you.
Mary: That's nine plus--
Laura: Yeah, that's 15 plus six is 21.
Matt: 21. Okay. As you come over, using a dagger that you have. Pop very delicately each dragon eye out and place it into the satchel.
Laura: Into the cooler bag.
Matt: As you pull each eye out, it's like holding the coldest orb you've ever held. It actually burns your fingers as you clutch it. (gasp) Throw it inside and have to shake your hand off.
Laura: I jiggle them around in the bag. Just because.
Felicia: We have a special crate?
Laura: Yeah, I'm holding it.
Taliesin: The tongue would be next.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll for that.
Laura: Plus another roll for advantage. Ooh, that's way better. Plus six. 23.
Matt: 23, all right. So you manage to, with the help of Vex pulling the jaw open, Grog holding onto the side, Lyra's supervising. You manage to get to the base of the tongue, carve off-- And you (slurp-pop) pull out the rather massive, very heavy tongue-- which, once again, this in itself, is like (yelps). Put it in real fast. And in the process of doing so, you suffer two points of cold damage, but the tongue has been harvested.
Taliesin: A heart.
Matt: This one's going to be difficult. Part of the chest is blown open, exposing the interior, but there has been damage done to the inside, so go ahead and attempt this.
Travis: Two rolls.
Mary: 12. 14. Plus six is 20.
Matt: Oh, 20! 20 is just what you needed. You pry in and crack open a portion of its body, and you begin to slowly carve out the portion, the heart, and the dragon heart itself is massive. It's huge, and it takes three of you to pull it out.
Laura: How do we fit it in this bag? Is it magic?
Matt: You don't know, but it's not going to fit in that satchel.
Mary: How heavy is it?
Matt: I'd say it probably weighs a good 200 pounds.
Felicia: I should know what people would do in the guild situation if they had an organ that wouldn't fit in the bag, right? We have to preserve it.
Matt: Travel back quickly or have preservation magic. Whether it would be a necromancy-based magic.
Felicia: Nope.
Travis: We're not shoving it in there? Are we cutting it in half?
Laura: We could roll it up in one of our fancy robes, though, and hold on to it. And pack it in-- oh, we, yeah! Let's chisel out some of the ice.
Matt: As you begin to wrap it up, you notice that the cold air begins to (cracking) crack around it, and the heart itself is freezing, as per the nature of a freshly dead white dragon. So it might be a good thing.
Laura: What about all this gold in the cavern?
Taliesin: Claws and teeth.
Mary: Teeth. Yes, roll to carve. Seven. 13.
Matt: 13. Going through the jaw, you begin plucking teeth out, piece by piece (cling, cling) and most of them, you notice, as part of the nature of the body, are beginning to decay faster than you expected. A lot of the teeth are becoming brittle and breaking, and as you start pulling them out, you're frustrated because with each one it seems to almost shatter as soon as you claw it from the jaw. By the end of it, you manage to gather about three dragon's teeth before the rest of them begin to break.
Travis: We have a shitload of dragon teeth left over.
Laura: But we need white dragon.
Travis: He was a white dragon!
Laura: Or wait, are you sure it wasn't the blue dragon that we harvested?
Travis: No, it was a white dragon, we have 37 left over.
Laura: Okay. We have 37 dragon teeth from the first white dragon.
Mary: Can I also get-- if there's any powder left or anything, for myself, I would like to--
Taliesin: Claws, still. We have to get claws still.
Mary: I know, but if it's on the ground, and it's in front of me, I would just like to put it in my little bag, to have it for my own spellcasting.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and make a nature roll for that. Roll two more nature checks, or one more check, with advantage.
Laura: Another one.
Mary: That sucks, too. 13.
Matt: Okay. You managed to pull out some of the more sensitive parts of the dragon, but as you begin to cut away at some of the scales-- you're going for the scales or the claws?
Mary: I was going for the powdered-- the remains of whatever teeth that we couldn't get.
Matt: Oh, that! Never mind then, sorry. So then, that you can gather without a problem. It's powdered dragon ice bone, so yeah, that's fine. All right.
Taliesin: We still need claws.
Laura: Let's go for claws.
Travis: One more.
Mary: Nine. 15.
Matt: 15? In beginning to pull out the portions of its hands and getting the base of where the claw itself begins to grow, you manage to pull out five functional dragon claws without them breaking.
Mary: How many did we need, Percy?
Taliesin: Six. Do we have an extra? We have one?
Matt: You guys, prepared with your bag.
Mary: Hello! Prepared people!
Travis: Oh, I looted the giant.
Matt: All right, you looted the giant.
Mary: Now can we get some scales?
Laura: Just her? All of us?
Matt: All of you working together to get scales.
Felicia: All of us? Free for all?
Matt: Well, this is the roll they're making for it.
Laura: 20 for scales.
Matt: 20 for scales, okay. So all of you working together, you manage to pull off what amounts to about 25 pounds of dragon scales. Mind you, the scales are heavy and they're about that big each. It would be enough if you were to bring it to a master craftsman, to possibly construct a set of armor from them.
Laura: That's why we have so many pounds of dragon scales from the previous dragons! We could make three sets of armor right now.
Felicia: I'm going to look around and just see if there's a stash or a hoard that he was gathering.
Matt: All right, there are individual gold pieces embedded all through. It would take you weeks to chisel it all from the walls.
Mary: Are there any giant gems that we can see?
Matt: Everyone make a perception check.
Laura: I want to get my diamond back, too, from earlier.
Travis: Can I loot the bloody giant?
Laura: Natural 20 for perception! Ooh! Sparklies!
Matt: All right. So Grog. You go over to the giant that's not frozen. Looking at it, most of its armor itself is made for a giant's form, much larger than anything else, and a lot of it has been shredded by the dragon, or frozen and broken from the impact and you, cutting it apart with its axe. For the most part, all you're able to find off of its body are approximately 120 gold pieces, which isn't bad. Giants don't really carry a lot of money on them, usually what they carry on them is just trophies from battles they fought previously. At least, these ones here. What did you roll for perception?
Taliesin: 16.
Felicia: 18.
Sam: 11.
Mary: 13.
Laura: Natural 20.
Matt: So as you guys are looking around, the cavern seems to be fairly barren. You, however, Vex, as you walk to the back of the cavern, you see there are other pieces of partially eaten frozen bodies. And you, using a little bit of torchlight you can pull out, and glancing underneath, you see a little bit of shining, more of a cluster of shining about seven or eight inches beneath the ice surface. And you look down and you can see, there appears to be quite a hoard of something frozen beneath the surface of this cavern.
Felicia: Oh I can help! (blasting sounds) I throw a Fire Bolt.
Matt: (laughs) You start carving, you're like, (yelps). Dodge out of the way just in time as firebolts begin blasting the ice.
Felicia: 14. 14 points of damage.
Matt: (boom boom) A large chunk of the ice is blasted out from the Fire Bolt, and you catch your breath for a second. It's not enough to get all the way down, but it does manage to blast away a large portion of the ice.
Laura: I still have like two points of health, FYI.
Felicia: Oh! I'm sorry! You do look so lovely, though.
Matt: And so between the two of you guys, you take a dagger, you take your staff and you begin jamming into the ice. You manage to break it apart, and you do find beneath there, frozen, quite a hoard. You find over the next hour or so, 4,244 gold pieces--
Travis: Whoa!
Taliesin: Whoa!
Laura: How much?
Matt: 4,244 gold pieces. A cluster of gems worth around 850 gold. A singular diamond. It's about that large. It's actually a little bit smaller than the other one you have, but it's worth anywhere in the neighborhood of 1,200 gold pieces. You also manage to find a pair of leather gloves with almost gold trim around each one of the joints. You find what looks like a small leather cap that you pull over the head, that a peasant would wear, and what looks to be one glass vial containing an indeterminate liquid.
Laura: What is the color of the liquid?
Matt: From what you can look at the color, it's like a purplish-blue.
Mary: Can anybody do a perception check on magical liquid?
Travis: I would like to perception check the leather hat.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: Can anybody do an arcana check on the leather hat?
Matt: Oh. Do you have Detect Magic?
Travis: 16!
Matt: Or Identify spell?
Felicia: No. I thought about them.
Matt: Okay. Make an arcana check. Well, you guys have a brief rest here; it should be fine, actually. Okay. Looking at it, this is a very fancy leather hat.
Travis: It's a fancy leather hat. It's mine. Dibs!
Taliesin: I'm curious about the gloves, myself.
Matt: You take some time with each one of these items that you pull out from the ice, and each one emanates a magical aura from them. You take the gloves first and you look at them, and you eventually come to realize, oh, you've heard about this, you read about this in your books. These are Gloves of Missile Snaring. They're gloves that when worn, you have an opportunity to possibly snatch a missile out of the air. These gloves seem to almost meld into your hands when you don them. When a ranged weapon attack hits you while you're wearing them, you can use your reaction to reduce the damage by a certain amount, provided you have a free hand. If you reduce the damage to zero, you can catch the missile, midair, (whoosh) stop it from hitting you.
Taliesin: That might be good for you, though.
Laura: For anybody with ranged, probably.
Matt: Anybody who's hit by ranged.
Taliesin: I have a two-handed ranged weapon, though, which you do not.
Matt: Looking at the hat itself, while not a very impressive hat, the magical energy on it does give you the idea that it is used as an illusion-based magic. It is a Hat of Disguise. While wearing this hat you can use an action to cast the Disguise Self spell at will. It ends if the hat is removed.
Sam: May I have that one, please?
Taliesin: No, Scanlan.
Travis: What? He can already disappear.
Felicia: You'll abuse it. You've already abused that privilege already.
Sam: I'm sorry. By the way, your lips taste like bubblegum.
Matt: The potion is a Potion of Climbing. You can actually climb your walking speed for one hour.
Mary: Like Spider Climb?
Felicia: Spider Pig.
Mary: What's it called?
Matt: Climbing or scaling cliffs, you can go at the speed-- normally, you're very slow when you climb. You can just parkour up super fast. While this is happening, because you rolled a 20, you look over at the corpses that are frozen on the ground. You see one of the corpses is wielding a sword, and another one of the corpses appears to have a shattered bow in one hand. You go over and see the sword itself is not affected by the ice. It actually seems to be resisting the ice. You (cracking) break it out of the hand. The person who's holding the bow, currently, the upper torso is bitten off and shattered. Part of the body is ruined. The bow is broken and destroyed, but there is a quiver on its back. Within the quiver, you see most of the arrows are frozen solid within the quiver, but there is one that seems unaffected by the ice.
Laura: Can I tell what it is?
Matt: You pull out the arrow. It appears to be a deep forest green, and the actual shaft of the arrow has a texture to it, almost a rough metallic texture.
Sam: Take it!
Mary: Take it!
Travis: Take it!
Laura: I'm taking it! Are you kidding me?
Matt: If you wish to bring those over to Lyra. Lyra, make an arcana check.
Felicia: This is a very interesting arrow. I haven't seen one of these like this. Oh, wait, maybe I have. 27.
Matt: Good to know. You take the time with it. You immediately recognize, there is a similar enchantment on both of these weapons, and whoever came in here earlier had the intent of slaying this dragon and failed to do so. What you find is a Dragon-Slayer Longsword. Which is a plus-one weapon, normally, but against dragons or people of the dragon subtype, it deals an additional 3d6 damage with every hit.
Felicia: It's too bad it didn't work for them.
Matt: And an Arrow of Dragon-Slaying. It's a singular arrow, a one-use arrow, but if it hits a dragon of the dragon race, type, or group, it has to make a constitution saving throw or take an additional 6d10 piercing damage. It's a one-use, "fuck you, dragon" arrow.
Sam: 6d10?
Felicia: That's very pleasant.
Laura: Yeah, right? What is the saving throw?
Sam: You'll see. You're going to get the paper.
Matt: So at this point, you guys have taken probably a good hour and a half or so in this cavern. You start seeing water drip.
Laura: Oh, we should get out.
Matt: It's beginning to thaw in the absence of Rimefang.
Mary: Well, what's good is, I believe we're within the three days of the contract, yes?
Matt: Possibly.
Felicia: Well, we got the contract. We completed it within three days. Now, we have to get back.
Mary: Yes, we've killed it, so let's go home.
Matt: Percy, you go and you pull out the contract real fast to inspect it, and you can see that the arcane sigils that were built into it are faded, and where it looks like each piece of the dragon that you harvested correctly, has seemingly had a strange, glimmering gold shimmer from the actual text on the contract.
Laura: Lyra, they're going to love you.
Felicia: It's so exciting. I can't wait to go to the mess hall and tell everybody, many times, over and over, how this happened together. And you guys, this has been an amazing journey. Thank you.
Mary: I would like to take just one gold coin right at the base of the head of what was formerly Rimefang for myself. I'll put it in a necklace when we all go back to town.
Matt: All right. You take that one gold piece, pocket it. Take a moment to remember your final death blow against the dragon. You guys trek back through the caverns you arose, back through the ruined frost giant village, back into the Vesper Timberland, find where your horses were currently tied up, make your way back towards the city of Vasselheim. About a day and a half's worth of travel later, you notice that the blizzard that encompassed the six-mile radius of this mountain range has faded into a soft fog, and the actual weather in this area seems to have been connected to the presence of the dragon and is slowly dissipating. You eventually take yourself to the base of Vasselheim's main wall. You shout at the top of the wall, and noticing the group arriving, they let the doors open. You can see the giant, dragon-headed ballistae that line the city walls are armed and ready, and upon approval, they move them away. You enter the city, make your way through the Braving Grounds to the Quadroads to the outside of the Slayer's Take guildhall. As you enter the main room, you see Mertin is standing there. Looks like he's playing a game of solitaire with a deck of cards. He looks up. "Well, I'll be damned. Are you serious? You killed him?"
Felicia: Mertin, we did it.
Matt: "Show me your contract. Show me this contract."
Felicia: I don't know why you'd doubt us. Really, it's right here.
Matt: "Well done." And he puts his hand out to shake your hand.
Felicia: Oh my gosh. I start crying. This is the most proud moment of my life, Mertin. I've admired you for so long and the fact (cries) thank you. And then I just hug him.
Matt: Okay. He hugs you. "I appreciate it very much. You lost me 200 gold pieces, but well done. You've proven to be more than I expected. Let me get the Huntmistress. She will be very happy to see that you've arrived. Aye, my wife. Yes." And he gets up and leaves. A few moments later, the headmaster Vanessa Cyndrial comes in, her tiefling self with her horns curled behind her head. Walks in with this smooth glare. "I must say. Some of these contracts we put out as a test of your power and will, and to be perfectly honest, I was pulling for you." She puts out her hand and her husband takes a pouch of coin and puts it in her hand. She takes it and puts it on the side of her belt. "I'm impressed by all of you, and by this token, and by the completed contract. First off, you have definitely proven your worth to the Slayer's Take."
Felicia: Oh my god, that is so sweet, Vanessa.
Matt: "Keep the emotions in check. We have to put up a face here. No one wants to see a member of the guild cry. Now, for the rest of you, I would like to humbly ask if you wish to join the Slayer's Take guild."
Sam: Yeah, sure, that'll work. The bear, too?
Matt: "The bear, as well. Best not show him the back room. We have a few trophies back there that might freak him out."
Travis: Do we get to work with another leader next time?
Sam: What? Because if the answer is yes, we refuse. This is our leader from now on.
Felicia: Thank you so much.
Matt: "You are able to choose what your group is at any time. Whatever the contract requires."
Felicia: I really appreciate it, but given the kiss that we had, I realized why Aldor doesn't love me is that I don't have enough experience. Sexually. So I'm going to stay in town to spread my wings in that area. And then he'll love me. Won't he, Vanessa?
Matt: Vanessa goes, "Lyra, I would recommend this course of action to not be taken. I would think that would reflect poorly-- I mean, your personal time is your own, but nevertheless, my dear, this is a very pious house--"
Sam: I think this is a great idea.
Felicia: Oh, no. Not you. You're such a friend to me. I can't ruin that.
Sam: You're right.
Matt: Vanessa walks up and puts her hand on your shoulder and goes, "We're going to have a talk, woman to woman."
Felicia: (whispers) Oh my god, you guys, I'm in!
Mary: Be straight with her, will you? Please.
Matt: "I'm going to make sure she doesn't embarrass the rest of us. So with the contract completed, provide what you've harvested from your quarry, and payment will be delivered."
Laura: I put the bag down that's got all the stuff in it. And then we take out a couple from the white dragon, and put out the other stuff. And we've got this giant heart right here.
Matt: The heart, which Grog has been carrying on his back as you guys travel. (impact sound) It hits the table and the wood cracks a little bit beneath it from the impact. And you can see, the ice is starting to melt a bit on the exterior.
Laura: Careful, it needs to be preserved.
Matt: She gives a nod. "Very well. Mertin, please, provide these for transport to the contract client."
Mary: Can we ask who actually contracted it?
Matt: "It's written on the contract itself."
Mary: Oh, that's right. I'm so sorry.
Matt: Percy has the contract, currently.
Taliesin: I do. Ozwyn Grud?
Travis: Grundle?
Felicia: Alchemist Ozwyn Grud.
Matt: Make a history check, by the way.
Taliesin: May I, as well?
Felicia: 21.
Taliesin: 25.
Travis: Oh, a history check? Four. He's a person.
Mary: I had four, as well. We are so getting shots later. Like, now.
Laura: Nine.
Matt: All right. The two of you immediately go, "Huh," and it hits you: you've heard the name before. You've heard the name and you're trying to figure out where it is. You pick it up and say, "He's a member of the Arcana Pansophical." It's a really exclusive group of archmages across the entire globe that essentially work together to keep the peace on a global scale. Of which, you know that Arcanist Allura Vysoren is a member of the Arcana Pansophical.
Taliesin: Yes, of course.
Matt: This is another member of that team, who ordered this.
Taliesin: This is most likely going to good use, at the very least.
Sam: So do we collect our money?
Matt: "Indeed. What is the total on that contract, if you don't mind repeating?"
Taliesin: I was just working that out.
Laura: Lots of gold.
Taliesin: Lots of gold. It's 1,800 for the dragon eyes, 1,200 for the dragon tongue. 3,500 for the heart. 1,500 for the claws, and then how much for the dragon teeth?
Laura: Per dragon's tooth? Or for all six dragon teeth?
Taliesin: For all 20 dragon teeth.
Matt: Yeah. Essentially, considering the dragon teeth that you had already stored, those are used in this transaction, as well as the claws. So you no longer have dragon's teeth and dragon claws stored in your bag. However, you've fulfilled the contract and get full payment for those.
Travis: We have 12 teeth left.
Sam: So it's 9,000 total?
Taliesin: 9,000 total.
Matt: "9,000 gold pieces." She reaches beneath, pulls out a small chest. You see her do something beneath the table you don't recognize, and all of a sudden you hear a clicking sound and she pulls up three large sacks of gold (heavy impacts) on the table. "Divide as you see fit. On top of this, as you have now been accepted to this, when your other team members arrive, which should be any moment now, in the next day or so, you'll be inducted, you'll be absolved of your breach of the laws of Vasselheim, and you will also acquire a small payment in conjunction with the hydra contract. So we will discuss this as soon as your friends arrive. Until then, feel free to rest, divide the gold, and be on your way."
Laura: That's 1,500 each.
Sam: Thank you.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Felicia: Oh, I don't need any. (laughs)
Laura: What about you, Zahra?
Mary: Oh, I need. I'll take, definitely. Thank you.
Matt: "You do not need your money? Well, that will go back to the guild, thank you."
Travis: No, she misspoke.
Mary: She misspoke. I'm so sorry. She completely misspoke.
Matt: (chuckles) "Very well." Tosses the coins.
Laura: 1,800 each.
Matt: "Well done. Congratulations, and I look forward to a very fruitful and profitable future together here at the Slayer's Take."
Travis: Aye. Scanlan, should we go and make sure that your wounds are completely healed?
Laura: Can we insight check Vanessa really fast?
Matt: You may. What are you trying to gather?
Laura: Just to see what kind of person she is.
Matt: All right, go for an insight check.
Laura: 24.
Matt: Okay. You know you have a very strong sense of being able to read a person, and yet she is still an enigma to you. She seems earnest. She seems definitely a shrewd businesswoman, and there's a reason this guild has been successful for as long as she's been at the helm of it. But as far as reading her intent? She seems very guarded and hard to read. You're unable to really catch a bead on her.
Felicia: Vanessa, I want to thank you for trusting me with this very difficult task. I know that you sent some other people after this dragon, and your confidence in our abilities over theirs, who were defeated? It's just fantastic. I mean, what were you thinking?
Travis: What were you thinking?
Taliesin: What were you thinking, really?
Matt: "Well, to be perfectly honest, this dragon had been a thorn in our side, with previous contracts failed on its side, and you all seemed so confident in your skills. I figured it would be a good excuse for you to either flee from this thing and come back with your tail between your legs, or be foolish and get yourself killed, in which case, you're not a problem of ours anymore and everything's fine. Or, best case scenario, what you've shown to me today."
Laura: Which is that we're amazing.
Travis: Vox Machina does not flee.
Mary: Never. Although I'm not a part of it.
Sam: We'll make you an honorary member.
Matt: "Anyway, I have business to attend to. Enjoy your night. Celebrate. And return here when you wish to see your friends hopefully return as successful as you were."
Sam: Thank you.
Mary: Thank you.
Travis: We are sure they will.
Matt: "Mertin!" "Yes, I know, my dear. I'm taking it." And he takes the heart and (grunts) lifts it over his back and the halfling, as thick as he is, (grunts) is bringing it to the back room. She turns around, gathers the rest of the materials into a sack, and exits the room. And with that, we will conclude tonight's session. Well done!
Sam: We did it!
Mary: We survived!
Laura: Good job, Mary!
Matt: By the way, these are your magical items. You want to go ahead and take those?
Sam: I have to split.
Taliesin: Yes, you're moving.
Felicia: Tonight?
Taliesin: Tomorrow.
Felicia: Oh my goodness.
Matt: First off, guys, a big round of applause and appreciation for our guests. Mary, Felicia. You guys were fantastic.
Taliesin: Guest dragon kill.
Felicia: That was very fun. Thank you for letting me guest and be on the Twitch channel. You guys are a joy to have. I'm so proud to be part of the Geek and Sundry family.
Mary: I would like to say thank you so much to the community, to the Critters out there. I've never felt so much love overnight and through this last week. You inspired me today, and all of us, so thank you so much.
Zac: Speaking of Critters, #CriticalRole is officially trending on Twitter right now on the front page. You guys should all keep that trend going and go tell us what you think about the show and your favorite moments from tonight with #CriticalRole, @GeekandSundry. A couple of other quick announcements. Thank you, Felicia, for coming out. She's about to leave for a month, right?
Felicia: I'm going on a book tour, so please, if you haven't, preorder my book. feliciadaybook.com. I'm going to 12 cities, then DragonCon. I'm pretty excited about it. I'm going all over. I'm sorry, Midwest. It'll be fun.
Zac: Speaking of her book, guys, we are 60 subscribers away, roughly, from doing another signed book giveaway. Subs are what keep this channel alive. We wouldn't be able to bring you this content without subscribers, so let's try to get that 60 before we're done reading all our donations and prizes and everything else. But actually, I think we're going to play that video of Felicia one more time really quick to support her book tour.
Felicia: That's very sweet.
Zac: We'll be right back, really quick, with our donations and everything.
Matt: Yes. [end captions]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, and welcome this evening to Critical Role, everyone. A show where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors play Dungeons and Dragons and have a good time. Guess we can go ahead and-- we forgot to do the format this time and start with the intro. We trying to do that going forward because it makes more sense. But for now, let's go ahead and jump to the intro and we'll be right back to describe what we have going on. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back. So first and foremost, we got a couple quick announcements to get into for this week. For every 100 subs we get to the channel this evening we'll be doing giveaways. The giveaways this week will include a signed photo of the cast of Critical Role, as well as, for the first time offering, a large print poster of one of the classic moments within our campaign drawn by our illustrious Kit Buss, our official artist for Critical Role. I think Zac should be showing you that photo that we'll be giving away, a really nice, high-quality print of that signed by the cast. And we'll send that out to whoever wins the wonderful prize for the chat room. I think we're 50 away from our first giveaway. So, you got to get that climbing so we can give that out shortly. Also, as we've previously, the past two weeks, had some great guests joining our first half of the Vox Machina group on their adventure, this week we have two new guests joining us for this and next week. If I can have a big, warm welcome to our players this week: Wil Wheaton and Will Friedle. Thank you guys so much for joining us. Excited to have you.
Marisha: So awesome.
Will: Slightly nervous.
Wil: You're going to be great, don't worry about it. I want to apologize in advance to Liam for having to share a table with me. I'm sorry for what's going to happen to your dice on account of how close we are to each other. I hope you're not too attached to anything with your character at all. (laughter)
Wil: I know. I'm just telling you, if there's dice you really love, you might want to put them away.
Liam: I'll just kiester this one.
Matt: That's the most comfortable way to do that. Well, awesome guys. Thank you so much for joining us in this. Before we jump in, let's see if we have any announcements that anyone wants to make, anything coming up, anything you want to talk about. I'll start. I'll say that as of flying out this evening, I should say, I have a flight at 12:15 from LAX. I'll be flying out to Columbus, Ohio for Matsuricon this weekend. So, any of you guys out there in the Ohio area want to come and visit me for the weekend, I'll be doing signings, panels, and general hanging out with fans and stuff. So if you're in the vicinity, come say hi. That's my announcement. Anyone else have anything they want to mention?
Orion: Yeah. I recently started my own Twitch stream. So you can follow me and watch. I play a lot of video games, guys. It's horrible addiction that's amazing. But it's @orionacaba on Twitch.
Matt: You keep streaming Thursdays at 7 00, which I think is really counterproductive.
Orion: It's weird.
Wil: When you've mastered being in two places at once, it's silly not to take advantage of it.
Orion: I am actually hosting Geek and Sundry on my channel right now.
Matt: Oh, look at you.
Liam: Are you simultaneously brewing at home right now?
Wil: I am. And I am also running this game in an alternate universe.
Liam: Oh. Wow.
Wil: It's pretty great. Yeah. And Matt rolls so bad in that game. It's really great. I am having dinner with my wife tomorrow so I'm looking forward to that. We're probably going to put a whole chicken in the smoker in the afternoon and then I think we're going to play some games. I'm introducing her to a game that I got at Gen Con called Lanterns.
Marisha: Lanterns?
Wil: Yeah, really fun Dom Lux game. Really like it a lot.
Marisha: We'll have to check that out.
Will: I, after four lovely years, popped the question last week.
Matt: Yes, you did.
Will: And I am engaged to be married. Yes. (cheering)
Will: Thank you very much.
Matt: I would say Susan's a very lucky girl, but really, it's the other way around.
Will: No, I'm the lucky one. I lucked out. I really was the one who lucked out.
Liam: Does she know or is this the proposal?
Will: I was going to propose like this, but we live in the woods and we don't get this show there. We have no internet whatsoever. No, she knows. She knows. She stupidly said yes, so we'll see what happens next.
Wil: If you need an entree into the Society of Men Who Married Way Above Their Stations, I can provide you an introduction.
Will: Thank you. (laughs) That's awesome. Yes, that is absolutely what happened here, so I will need that.
Wil: Yeah, they're members-only jackets.
Marisha: Members-only jackets.
Wil: The sleeves are little too short on all of the jackets, so we remember.
Will: That's perfect. I like that.
Matt: A lot of suede.
Will: Yeah. (laughter)
Wil: Yeah. (laughter)
Wil: And a nylon hood zipped into the neck, for some reason.
Matt: Which no one ever uses, and you forget it's there until you're like, "What's that? Oh, right." Congratulations.
Will: Thank you. You are the first to know that that's happened.
Matt: There you go. Exclusive. Critical Role exclusive. Well, fantastic. Let's go ahead and jump into where we left off.
Wil: I thought I just heard you say you need a pencil.
Orion: Yeah, I do.
Will: That's what happens when you're in multiple places at once. The realities start blending.
Will: I'll share, if you'd like.
Orion: Thank you.
Matt: Anyone else need a pencil? Everyone good?
Will: That was a good throw and catch.
Wil: I have a mechanical pencil that looks like a pencil pencil.
Will: I think I have the same kind of pencil.
Wil: Yeah, it's nice.
Marisha: We do the hand-eye coordination thing.
Matt: All righty, guys. As it currently stands, Vox Machina throughout its ventures found itself in the city of Vasselheim, as of late. They came to seal away the Horn of Orcus they had tore from the head of the beholder K'Varn deep in the Underdark. Once they had completed this journey, they spent some time in the city trying to figure out what can be done there, preparation for possibly Keyleth making a venture out to one of her Ashari tribes. During which, Grog entered a fight ring and lost. And the party decided to go ahead and--
Marisha: Never forget.
Matt: I have a feeling Kern and Grog are going to have a round two in the near future, depending on how Grog's feeling about that. Then the party saw that there was some sort of hydra-like being that had been harrying the walls of the outskirts of the city of Vasselheim. Being the adventurers they are, they took it upon themselves to leap out into the jungles and the forests of the Vesper Timberland. Found and hunted down this hydra, fought it, and upon slaying it, discovered there was another group also hunting this hydra. An actually sanctioned group. And that hunting this hydra is considered illegal in Vasselheim unless you had actually been contracted to do so. So in breaking the laws of Vasselheim, they could have been tried for it, but instead chose to return to the city with this group of hunters and be brought before their guildmaster, the Huntmaster known as Huntmaster Vanessa Cyndrial. Basically, they were given the choice: they could go to trial or they could undergo their own personal trial to join the guild, the Slayer's Take, which is essentially a guild that takes on contracts to hunt various requested creatures down, harvest elements of their physical bodies to then be sold or returned to these individuals and be paid for it. If they manage to complete these trials, they will be absolved of breaking the law because they will now be within the confines of it and will be members of the guild. So choosing that, they were then also notified that they would be splitting up into two different groups, much to the chagrin of Vex and Vax, our twins.
Will: Split apart.
Liam: Separation anxiety is a real thing.
Matt: So this group, the second adventuring group, has gathered itself back to the Bellows' Respite inn. Vax, you were asked to go the bar, to join your sister, Vex, for a shot of the hardest liquor they had available to deal with the coming separation. You shared a brief breakfast, shared your bitter, spiteful, alcoholic imbibement, and then went your separate ways. The first group went initially, and it's been about an hour or so of you guys waiting in the tavern for them to, as far as you know, take care of their business before you were to go to the guild yourselves. So, we have Tiberius, Keyleth, and Vax all sitting around the Bellows' Respite tavern lamenting what's going to come next.
Orion: Oh, cheer up, Vax. She'll be back soon. I've never seen you quite so down.
Marisha: I've been separated from my parents for a really long time. You get used to it. It's not too bad.
Liam: It took you years to do that. I'm two minutes in, so I'll grieve a little bit longer.
Marisha: Don't say the word grieve. That's strong.
Orion: Yes, it's implying that someone has died. And no one has. So, you know.
Marisha: It's only a few days. It'll be good. Separation makes the heart grow fonder and all that stuff.
Liam: It's fine. I just have a low tolerance for bullshit, and I'd like to get past this little piece of shit that we're being made to swallow.
Orion: I agree. Stormwinds should not be meddling around with these peasants. Are we in a tavern?
Matt: You are currently in the Bellows' Respite Tavern.
Orion: Barkeep, bring me your finest ale for my friend here and for the lady. I'll take a water.
Matt: The relatively jovial, ginger-bearded, rotund human gentleman who runs the establishment comes over to you. Looks like himself is a little bleary-eyed and hasn't quite adjusted to the morning light itself. "Oh okay. Certainly, I'll go ahead and retrieve that for you. It's three? Three is what I'm looking at?"
Marisha: What time is it?
Matt: Right now, I'd say it's roughly 9 00 to 10:00 in the morning.
Marisha: Oh sure. Let's start early. Why not?
Orion: And I flip him a couple of gold coins.
Matt: He tries to catch it, fumbles. Goes and pick it up.
Marisha: Don't throw. That's rude.
Matt: Five minutes go by. Your food and drink are brought to your table, and you continue to lament about the coming time. Is there anything else you guys wish to take care of before you make your way to the Slayer's Take Guildhall?
Marisha: Well, since we're getting separated, Grog is taking the Bag of Holding.
Orion: I have one; don't forget that.
Marisha: Right, but we had a lot of stuff in that Bag of Holding. I kept most of the stuff that I needed on me, but how many healing potions do we have?
Liam: Not a lot. That's what I'm concerned about. We lost our meat shield and we don't have Pike. So I think we probably need to go and get some potions.
Marisha: I can go ahead and brush up on healing spells, as well. Make sure I come a little bit more well-equipped, just in case.
Orion: I'm good on potions, but we should restock our supply.
Liam: How many have you got?
Orion: I have, let me see here, three potions of greater healing, and three regular potions of healing.
Liam: Can I have one?
Orion: I suppose. If we're just going to buy more, it doesn't matter. But just in case something happens along the way.
Liam: Thank you.
Marisha: I only have one greater healing potion right now.
Orion: Yes, so we'll go buy more. And then we'll see what else they have. I would like to see if we can procure a couple of items, like a couple of empty vials. I've used a lot of mine. Maybe find some acid or whatnot at these item shops. So let's look around and get the stuff.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Marisha: Apparently we have the flying carpet?
Liam: Do we have the flying carpet?
Matt: The flying carpet is, for the most part, kept wrapped up in Grog's Bag of Holding.
Marisha: Because I think Grog was checking out. He's breaking up a little bit. But I feel like he just told me that we took the flying carpet.
Liam: (imitating Grog) We took the flying carpet. Sorry.
Marisha: He's very far away, but I feel it's reaching its limits.
Liam: (imitating Grog) I would like to bogart the flying carpet and everything in the fucking Bag.
Marisha: He apparently left us with the flying carpet?
Orion: He's saying he left with the flying carpet, Keyleth. He left with it. We don't have it.
Marisha: He said, remember, you took the flying carpet. To break RP for a second.
Liam: (imitating Grog) Am I texting you that right now?
Marisha: Yeah. I can't. You're cutting out. You're cutting out, Grog.
Orion: I held it for a time, but I only have my Wheel of Mending in mine, as far as I know. Hold on, let me check.
Matt: As you reach into your Bag of Holding--
Orion: I'm thinking really hard.
Matt: Through the luck of the draw, it seems to be that the last resting place of the flying carpet was within your Bag of Holding.
Orion: Hold on. Oh here it is.
Marisha: Oh, look at that. We have it.
Orion: Shut my mouth. I guess I was wrong.
Marisha: Found it. We're good.
Liam: All right, let's go to the store. I don't really want to drag this out any longer than we have to. And I walk out the door and start going.
Matt: Okay. What did you roll for your investigation check, Tiberius?
Orion: 16.
Matt: 16? Okay. As you guys take the next 20 minutes wandering the Quad Roads district of Vasselheim, asking around. A lot of the shops here offer general supplies. There are a few that are focused on the mining supplies as there is a large market mining cobalt out of the center of the mountain the city is built around. You find places that provide clockwork for large grandfather clocks that are starting to be distributed in this part of the city. You also find that there is a large bazaar-type market in the center of the Quad Roads that you passed by when you first came to town. Amongst many of these barkers, you do catch one small tent, Tiberius, that catches your eye because it resembles the same purple color as one tent you guys entered in Emon about a year or so ago, in which you encountered a fortune teller.
Marisha: Oh shit! It's the Witch's Fortune. What are you looking for?
Liam: Look at those fingers fly.
Orion: I approach.
Marisha: Do you know her name? Remember her name? I can probably find it. It would take a minute of digging, through. Hang on. I've got to go back to my old notes. I've got to go back to my old D&D notes. Keep doing stuff.
Matt: So as you enter the tent, you pull the curtains apart. There is one other individual who seems to be just perusing the interior. But the smell that hits you immediately is very heavy sage, ceremonial burning of various spices, giving the area a mystical scent. The light itself is very low, just a few flickering candles and a hooded lantern in the far corner directed outward give a bit of ambiance to the interior of the tent. The series of small ropes and cords made of hemp and silk carry trinkets and bones and various enchanted accoutrements. And in the far back corner, amongst the table there is indeed a very beautiful elven woman dressed in a fine silk gown with a metallic headband, her dirty blonde hair behind her ears. And she looks to be in the middle of shuffling a deck of tarot cards. As you enter, she looks up and gives you a look of surprise and then a curious look of remembrance.
Marisha: Am I with him?
Matt: You're behind him and outside of the tent. He entered. Did you guys want to go in with him?
Liam: Yes.
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: All right, you enter and are greeted by this same atmosphere.
Marisha: (gasps) Trista!
Matt: She gives you a cross look.
Marisha: It's been so long! Fancy meeting you here.
Matt: She puts her finger up for a second, turns over to the noblewoman who is currently perusing this small shelf of books and tomes. "I'm terribly sorry. Would you mind just giving us a moment? I've some personal business to attend to." The noble woman is like, "Oh, fine. I didn't want to purchase anything anyway." And stomps out of the tent. The door closes behind her. At which point the elven woman immediately turns. "Trista's my sister."
Marisha: You're Forsythia?
Matt: "It's good to see you again, young half-elf." You can see now with the current atmosphere, the light seems to dim the interior of the tent. And the elven woman's visage shimmers and then fades and there sitting behind the table you see a large, hunched forward, gnarled humanoid. This woman, who is definitively referred to as a hag, is currently lording over the table, long, twisted fingers holding that same deck of cards. Looking up at you with a crooked nose and pointed chin. There's a grin on her face. And looks to you and, "It has been some time, dragonborn. I can still see there is a fraction of you still missing."
Orion: Yes. I still don't know what that means. But I am actually happy to see you, milady.
Matt: Still shuffling her cards. "So was there anything I can help you with?"
Orion: Yes. Yes, there is. You mentioned before, when I asked you last, of the Boros Ring. You revealed that it was in the Fey, the Wild Fen. I am also in search of the item that I did not get to ask you about called the Pale Stone. I wish to know the location of that, as well.
Matt: She gives you a keen look. "I think for the time being, one quest is enough. Return when you've procured this ring you so graciously seek, then perhaps the rest of this will be revealed. Grow greedy with fate and I fear the timeline will swallow you up, young dragonblood." She pulls the cards down and just starts going over her own reading. Each card she slams down with a heavy thud. The room seems to almost cloud, the air growing thicker. And there's a hint of frustration that she's currently being bothered and strung out. After she takes a few moments to herself, she looks back you. "Is there business you seek, aside from asking me these questions? Perhaps a bauble or two. I make fine baubles."
Orion: Since you're not in the business of information, then we are in the business of procuring some specific items. Potions. I'm looking for a few empty glass vials. Perhaps some acid, if you have it.
Matt: She stands up. And as she stands up, you can now see the hag, which hunched forward, sits at a solid five feet tall. At full height, even with the hunch, she's now cresting the top of the tent at seven feet. Long, stringy, gray-black hair framing the shoulders. The same nice goldish silk outfit the elf appearance was wearing is there. It looks much more world-tattered and matches the one currently wearing it. She reaches behind her, still staring you intently in the face, and grabs a small case off the wall. Sets it down before her. Pulls back the wooden lid and inside, you can see there are three small glass vials. "These are what I have to offer. Two of them will right your physical form, perhaps take care of some of those wounds someone as foolish and careless as you eventually deal with. The third one is caustic in its nature. Its application is up to you. They are sold as a set, though. 300 gold pieces. Take it or leave."
Orion: You don't have to be all nasty about it. I have the money. Here you go.
Matt: She reaches over and as you hold the small bag of coin out, her hand completely engulfs yours. The fingers wrap around, and for a second you feel a tug. And you are awkwardly pulled forward a few inches. You get closer to her face. The breath catches your nostrils, the scent of swamp water and old fish. It's a moment of intensity where you forget your surroundings for a brief moment. And it's just you and this entity. And you realize, she's far older than you ever gave her credit for. She pulls the bag of coin from your hand and withdraws. The light seems to return from the peripheral of your vision. Keyleth and Vax are there at your side. She reaches forward and pushes the box forward toward you on the table. "Be safe, and may fortune smile upon most of you."
Orion: Yes, I know something bad is going to happen. I show them the box. I take it and pick it up. This is all she had to offer. She's not taking questions.
Marisha: You're not taking any questions right now?
Matt: "Not today."
Marisha: Not today?
Matt: "As you know, my dealings with fate take a lot out of me. I'm not quite ready for another round of tellings. You see, this city, as most bits of civilization, are very eager to hear what the future has in store for them. So I'm a bit tapped out at the moment." And you can see a bit of dried blood around one of her nostrils. And if you recall last time, the process was very physically taxing on her. "Perhaps return in a week or so. And if I'm not here, I'm around."
Liam: Old one, are you still willing to trade today?
Matt: "Trade?"
Liam: I'm wondering if you have any poisons beyond the run-of-the-mill nightshades this afternoon or morning?
Matt: She stands up and reaches over, and there's a small alchemical glassware set up on the side. And you see it's cracked and old and it's been brutalized. And she pulls a very small vial of some dark, black, almost umbra-type liquid where you can't even see shine in the light. It absorbs all the light. She puts it forward. "This would be very unfortunate to find its way into the bloodstream of an enemy, yes?"
Liam: What do you want for it?
Matt: "A favor. Not now, but perhaps down the road."
Orion: She does that, Vax. A lot.
Liam: Why not?
Matt: She pushes it forward with her long, crooked fingernail, shoves the vial forward. It screeches across the top of the table. She withdraws her hand. "So it is done." At that moment, there's a very a cold shiver down the back of your neck that then fades. She just grins with this nasty, toothy grin. "Now, be on your way. I have cards to shuffle."
Liam: Yoink.
Marisha: It was so nice to see a familiar face in such a strange place. She's lovely.
Orion: Yes. Good day, madam.
Matt: As you step out, she raises her hand in front of her and her form once again shimmers and shifts down to that beautiful elven maiden that greeted you as you entered. The lights tend to blossom a little bit and you close the tent behind you.
Liam: As we're leaving, I say, that's a good look.
Matt: Gives a slight breathy chuckle that starts beautiful. (chuckle turns into a cackle)
Orion: What did we actually get?
Matt: You acquired two potions of greater healing, and a vial of caustic liquid. You are uncertain as to what its properties are.
Marisha: Caustic liquid.
Matt: You also don't quite know the properties of yours, but you gather, the assurance from a creature of this power, that she speaks in riddles, but not in untruths.
Orion: I'm going to give you another one of the greater potions. So mark that down.
Liam: Thank you. We're right in the middle of the bazaar. Do we want to take a quick jog around? I grab someone passing by and say, you, potions? Where? Here?
Matt: The person looks down at your arm, brushes it off, and the middle-aged gentleman goes, "Sir, you do realize that most of the potion trade is controlled by the clergy?"
Marisha: They're all like no magic and stuff here.
Liam: I did not know that. Thank you. Well, shit.
Marisha: Wait. Did he say that it was controlled by the clergy?
Orion: So we should go there.
Marisha: Hang on. Just because it is controlled by the clergy doesn't mean that it's legal. Doesn't mean that if we go knocking on their door requesting potions that they're going to take kindly to that. Kind of like getting your concealed deadly weapons license in certain places.
Liam: I grab another weirdo passing by and say, excuse me. There's probably a temple around here. Can you point us in the right direction?
Matt: The individual looks at you awkwardly and points over. And you can see just past the outskirts of this bazaar, there are a number of buildings that line the outer area of this central portion. You can see where he is pointing, there is a large cathedral made of almost, from this distance, a warbling, warped obsidian, and it is far more ominous and obelisk-like in appearance than the other temples. In a district of the city that you haven't been to yet. But it is the closest temple.
Wil: Warbling Obsidian is my Black Crowes cover band.
Liam: I'm getting itchy. Can we just go to the Take please?
Marisha: I turn and I lean into Tiberius and I say, he's going to be cranky the entire time we're on this field trip, isn't he?
Orion: Yes, and usually I'm the cranky one.
Marisha: I know.
Orion: So let's head to the temple. Right? Yes?
Marisha: I guess.
Orion: Can you turn into a horse?
Marisha: Yes, but that's a little forward, don't you think?
Orion: I'm just asking.
Liam: Are we going to the temple or the Take?
Orion: Oh, the Take? What would make you feel better?
Liam: Let's get on with it, shall we? Jesus, whoever that is.
Orion: That was that one carpenter we met in in Vasselheim.
Liam: Oh, he was sweet. He had some good herb.
Orion: Yes, he did. He sure knew how to-- it was dank.
Matt: "Dank," which is arcane terms for "thaumaturgical." Anyway. You make your way to the southern outskirts of this portion of the bazaar, which leads its way into the central building cluster portion of the Quad Roads district to the outside of the Slayer's Take Guildhall. You walk up to the main doorway which has the inscription in front. And pushing the door open, you enter into the main foyer area, where you see the same cast-iron chandeliers hanging from the ceiling, the dark wood rafters frame the entire internal area. And there sitting at the central desk is Mertin, the scarred-up halfling with the relatively joyful disposition. He looks up from his books. "Okay, it appears to me that we have the other half of this adventuring group to deal with. Let us hope that perhaps you have better luck than your previous friends in what has been chosen for you, eh?"
Liam: They already headed out?
Matt: "Yes, they left not more than an hour ago, I imagine."
Marisha: And what were they contracted with?
Matt: "Oh, nothing. They're going to kill a dragon. Would you like me to go get the mistress for you?"
Liam: Excuse me?
Matt: "I'll take that as a yes. I'll be right back." And he gets up from his table and wanders off.
Orion: They'll be fine. I'm sure of it. Scanlan makes good decisions all the time.
Matt: As you wait a few moments, eventually Mertin returns. But he seems, his head down, a little humbly, and gestures out with his hands. And you hear the familiar footsteps of the Huntmaster, Vanessa Cyndrial. Her tiefling appearance both very striking in her chiseled bone structure in her face, her dark leather armor itself creaking slightly with each footstep. And she has that very commanding yet welcoming appearance, which you know hides a very hard-to-read interior. She steps forward. "Well, are you ready to take on the other half of this mission? Your friends were eager. And they traveled with some of our finer warriors. Are you confident in your capabilities today?"
Orion: Listen, don't be smug with me. None of us what to be here or cooperate with this stupid event just to abide your laws.
Marisha: Tiberius, we could be on trial.
Orion: The answer is yes. Let's get on with it.
Matt: "You see, it is very simple. I like it, direct and to the point. I respect that."
Orion: Oh. Well, thank you.
Matt: "The angry, flowery part in the middle, not so much a fan of. All right. So," she reaches behind and pulls out what looks like a small, rolled-up piece of parchment. Looks at it for a second. "Well, you have one other hopeful for this guild that will be joining you for this, and a leader will be assigned to you on this excursion to keep an eye on you and make sure you stay within the rules and not go absconding to some other country and we have to hunt you down."
Liam: Fantastic.
Orion: Can we use the word liaison?
Matt: "A liaison, if you will. Mertin, would you get the other hopeful for this?" Mertin says, "Of course, my lady." He gets up, and walks over, and knocks on a door. As you hear the door knock on the opposite side of the room, opens it up. And the red, tousled hair, halfling. "Kashaw, your group has arrived."
Will: Well, it's about time. I'm sick of waiting. (sighs) He walks out and meets everybody.
Matt: As you guys look, the door opens, and a human male steps out into the light. If you wish to describe yourself.
Will: I am Kashaw Vesh, an acolyte. Here I am, waiting for you for so long now. Do I have to travel with them the entire time?
Matt: "For the remainder of this contract at least. But once you have joined the Guild, perhaps other groups will be assigned to you."
Marisha: I'm sorry. I'm sorry, were we late? We didn't mean to keep you waiting. Or do you mean like, you've been waiting for us for a long time in the destiny, "we're here and where have you been my whole life" kind of way?
Will: Is she always like this?
Orion: Yes, she is.
Liam: Not good at reading emotions.
Will: This is going to be fun. Yes. No, I meant you're late.
Marisha: Wait. Is that what people say about me?
Liam: I don't.
Marisha: We'll talk later.
Will: Who are you?
Liam: Vax'ildan.
Orion: I am Tiberius Stormwind.
Will: A dragonborn.
Liam: What's your thing? What do you do?
Will: What I do is not really important. What I want to get done, I think, is what matters. What I want to do is start this quest. Is that what you called it? Quest?
Matt: "It is a contract."
Will: A contract, a job. Can we just get out there, please, and do what we have to do?
Matt: "Very well."
Liam: I agree. Let's hurry it up, Merkin. Shall we?
Will: That wasn't your name, was it?
Matt: "It's Mertin. Mertin is the name. But it's okay."
Liam: I'm not from these parts. It's my accent. Sorry.
Matt: "I can hear accent from upbringing. It's Syngornian use. It's fine. Mertin. Never mind." By the way, the human that has walked out, you can see has shoulder-length brown hair, a leather cord that is tied around the center of the forehead. Eyes two different colors. One I believe is a light blue?
Will: It's a light blue. One is a bright yellow. And his right arm, all the way up from where you can see where it disappears below the armor is covered in one-inch cuts, with scars all the way up.
Orion: Ah, a religious man.
Will: Maybe.
Matt: Mertin goes over and knocks on a door, opens it up. This individual is easy to hear from a distance. The heavy footfalls and the grumbling echoes through the hallways before he even appears. Mertin leads you into the light of the main foyer area. "This will be the group of which you will be guiding on this. I appreciate you doing this for us. I know it's not really usually what you do. But here is your team for this contract."
Wil: I'm sorry, where is the team?
Matt: "This is your team." And Vanessa chuckles to herself. "I'm sorry. This is what you'll be dealing with today."
Marisha: Hi.
Orion: Hello, I'm Tiberius Stormwind.
Matt: "Now Thorbir, play nice."
Marisha: What was that?
Matt: "Thorbir. Thorbir, play nice."
Wil: So he's a dwarf. He's a really stout dwarf. He's got really a long, red beard that's singed off in the lower right corner. The bottom of the top part of his beard is braided and clamped off with all these ornate things. He's got these big, thick, ropey, white braids that come down on either side of his face and frame his face. And these have these really big Dwarven runes on them. Do any of you speak Dwarven?
Orion: Yes.
Marisha: No.
Will: Yes.
Wil: All right, so for those of you who speak Dwarven, this is a really offensive curse word in Dwarven. And this one is an even more offensive curse word in Dwarven. You don't say these in friendly company. He's got a scar that runs down across his face. And the eye that it runs through is black. And his other eye is blue. And you can see that he's got Dwarven script written in tattoos all the way down his right arm.
Matt: "So please, if you would not mind making sure that they see their contract to fruition, taking them on this as you will, showing them the ropes of the guild, and try not get them killed."
Wil: And for me?
Matt: "Well, you will be rewarded as per the contract. You will have done the guild a great favor, which you know favors can go a very long way in the guild."
Wil: I certainly do. You don't have to tell me about repaying favors.
Matt: "Fair enough. Well, perhaps now would be a good time for this jovial lot of adventurers to know what it is they are to hunt down."
Wil: Is it an actual group?
Matt: "Well, we'll see how well you can make it into one. Perhaps this is a test for you as well, fair dwarf."
Marisha: I think is going to be an excellent bonding experience.
Will: Seriously, the whole time she is like this?
Orion: Yes, she is. It grows on you, though.
Will: I'm sure it does. So does the plague.
Marisha: Everyone has such a problem with optimism.
Matt: She unravels it. Looks at it. "I think this will do well for what is required. We will bind this contract to you now. Feel free to take over. If you wouldn't mind reading, half-elf."
Marisha: You know, public speaking is not really my strong suit. Okay. Ordered and paid in advance by anonymous.
Orion: Oh, they're a fun group.
Marisha: This contract, binding in honor and the elements, sets upon the agreed members of the Slayer's Take Guildhall, and the task of locating and slaying the below-mentioned entity, and the recovery of the below-listed harvested anatomy items. And any anatomy items not recovered or not in functional condition will be deducted from the final payment and refunded to the client. Oh. This contract is good for three days and should the contract not be fulfilled within that time period, all payments are null and void, this contract is null and void, and membership of the Slayer's Take is revoked-- outside of the Huntmaster's willful forgiveness.
Liam: Skip to the punchline.
Marisha: The quarry has been approved for hunting by the Holy Paramours of the Crown of Erathis. The quarry of one rakshasa. What's a rakshasa?
Liam: Tiger man.
Marisha: Tiger man?
Liam: Essentially.
Will: How do you know that?
Liam: Storybooks in Syngorn.
Marisha: We need two rakshasa eyes, one rakshasa tongue, one rakshasa heart, two rakshasa claws, and two rakshasa canine teeth. So canine.
Orion: Would this be an arcana or this be a history check?
Matt: This would be more of an arcana check.
Orion: I'm going to do an arcana check. 18.
Matt: 18? Rakshasas were entities that originally stemmed from the realm of the Nine Hells. They are devils. They are deceptive, and usually embed themselves in elements of society where they can grasp and take power. They love having servitude beneath them, and they are notoriously difficult and slippery to find, let alone nail down and destroy. Appearance-wise, they look like a normal humanoid man, but have the face of a tiger, and the other curious element is both of their hands are reversed. That's as much as you can glean from your formal training and understanding.
Liam: Does this cat have a name?
Matt: "Why does it matter? All we know is we can confirm that there is one within the vicinity, or huntable at the very least. The rest is up to you to find."
Marisha: The quarry is where it's been last located? Oh, okay. Yeah, you double-check it. I might have missed something.
Will: Why can't we know who the client is?
Matt: "The client has decided they wish to remain anonymous for this contract."
Orion: This seems to be bothering you, Kashaw.
Will: Everything's been bothering me lately. She's not helping. Do you want to read this?
Orion: It's going to say the same thing. Which part?
Will: Give me this. How far to the quarry?
Matt: "Your quarry is the creature."
Will: You said it was in the vicinity. What are we talking "in the vicinity?" Are we talking a day's hike? We talking an hour from here?
Matt: "Meaning, we've been able to confirm that there is one that is within a huntable distance within the three days of the contract. However, part of this trial is to see just how good you are at finding and destroying such creatures, so that information is for you to find, unless you do not feel your skills are up to par for the Slayer's Take, in which case, you are more than welcome to go for the door, human."
Liam: And you have no further information? Are there any grumpkins you want us to find? Do you expect us to go out with no information at all to find a man with a tiger's head?
Matt: "Well, you seem like a well-traveled unit. You seem to have done well enough to find and destroy great things you spoke of as you walked into these halls. Prove to me that you are more than just sell-swords. Show to me that you have the intellect, that you have the skill sets, that you have the cleverness to find the creature that does not wish to be found."
Liam: Is this how things normally go around here?
Wil: Normally, I don't waste my time with the likes of you. Man with a tiger's head is going to stand out. No problem finding him. Let's stand here and talk about this forever, or let's head out and get this over with.
Orion: Well, dwarf, why don't you do your title and lead then? And I should warn you, you are walking with a Stormwind. You may not know my name, but I can assure you, I alone am an army, so we are well protected. So, lead us to find this tiger-man, please.
Wil: Dragonborn is a lot of talk.
Will: If he's an army, why not just send him out?
Marisha: That was probably the ballsiest thing you've ever said.
Wil: All right, Storm?
Orion: Wind. People call me Tibsy.
Wil: Let's see how good you are at following. And he heads out.
Liam: He's not very good. Oh, he's gone.
Matt: As the dwarf exits, and you guys follow. Outside of the Slayer's Take into the center of the main Quad Roads thoroughfare, on the outskirts of the bazaar to seek a rakshasa, wherever one may be found.
Marisha: I thought this was going to be a fun field trip.
Orion: Well, I mean "rakshasa" does sound fun. Rakshasa!
Marisha: It does. It is a tiger person, so maybe we can relate.
Will: I want to switch teams.
Orion: No, it gets better.
Liam: What's your name again? I'm sorry.
Will: I am Kashaw Vesh. Call me Brother Kash. Everyone else does.
Liam: Kash. Brother Kash, are you new to the Guild, as well?
Will: I'm not a member of the Guild yet. I had something happen with someone who did something and now I'm here. Why don't we leave it at that, for now?
Liam: That's how we got here.
Will: Apparently, I only have to be here for another three days, which will be good.
Liam: All right.
Wil: I'm impatient. Perception 20. Is there anything around that indicates where, which of these four directions is the best direction to go?
Matt: Knowing the city for the while that you've been here, you know there are places of open business that have a lot of traffic are also good places to ask for if anyone has seen anything that might match a certain description, or an individual that you are seeking, any strange behavior. And so you know that the center of the Quad Roads where that bazaar is, is a good place to start requesting information as you have currently none at your disposal.
Marisha: Just to get this clear, a rakshasa's not a beast?
Matt: It's like a man.
Will: It's a demon.
Orion: It's a demon.
Matt: It's a demon creature that looks like a man.
Marisha: But it's not a beast, by definition?
Matt: No.
Liam: I'm sorry. I'd like to make an insight check on the dwarf, not to see if he is lying, but he could be. Can I get a gut instinct into what his deal is?
Matt: Go ahead and make an insight check.
Liam: Three, but I'm going to use my Luck to try that again. 18 plus two is 20.
Matt: Would you like to go ahead and roll a 20?
Wil: Yeah, that's a two. All right. (laughter)
Liam: Just reinforce the myth, man.
Wil: That's one better than I usually roll. I'd say it's twice as good as I usually do.
Matt: Gruff exterior. There is definitely a toughened past to him. He seems driven. Not necessarily untrustworthy, per se, but definitely a man of little patience and currently does not seem to be too pleased with the fact that he's essentially babysitting, in his mind.
Liam: Is there a marshmallow center?
Matt: You may find out in due time. Yet that is too hard to read at this moment.
Will: If you're in the bazaar, do I have to be out of the city to cast Locate Creature?
Matt: You can cast that anywhere you want to. Your magic is divine. This is your city.
Liam: And that's not just a descriptor, either.
Will: Thank you. It's normally fabulous, but not in this city. So then how do I go about casting Locate Creature?
Matt: You can just tell me.
Will: I'd like to go ahead and cast Locate Creature.
Matt: All right, so as you guys are having this discussion, you're having this weird stare-off and considering where to go in the bazaar. You stop in the nearby alley two buildings down from where the Slayer's Take Guildhall is. And you begin just taking a small dagger from your side and carving a circle in the ground. Throw some runes down that are specific to your patron. Take a moment and concentrate on the description of this rakshasa. Looking at the specifics of the spell to make sure that I don't give you misinformation... Locate Creature. Beautiful.
Will: You guys have jazz hands.
Orion: Rakshasa.
Will: Rakshasa.
Matt: You focus your mind for a second, and your holy symbol begins to drift up from underneath your armor. You instinctively take and slap it down underneath, and then refocus your vision, your eyes closed. And you can see what looks like a pulsing energy, like a very dark flame. Something that itself, you can already smell the sulfur. You can smell the lineage, the devil lineage that this entity is. And there is indeed one not too terribly far from where you currently are. It's faint, which means that it is on the outskirts. And you know this lasts for a good thousand feet or so. But it does give you a northeastern direction. And the spell fades.
Marisha: Northeastern direction.
Will: We should go northeast. It is also unfortunately, or fortunately, depending on how you look at it, closer than we thought.
Liam: In the walls of the city?
Will: Not in the walls, but very close to them.
Marisha: Do we have any type of plan of attack? Does anyone know how to fight these things? Any earthly clue?
Will: Leader boy?
Marisha: Leader boy?
Wil: I'm sorry, are you talking to me?
Orion: Thorbir is what they meant to say.
Will: Listen to Stormfather over here.
Marisha: I take my social cues from other people. I'm sorry.
Wil: In my experience, there has not been a problem invented that can't be solved with an axe.
Orion: That's true. We've seen that.
Will: Wonderfully helpful. Thank you.
Wil: You're welcome.
Liam: Follow the axe.
Wil: Now what I want you to do is imagine an hourglass. You got that? Good picture of an hourglass in your heads? See all that sand draining out? Let's get a move on.
Orion: Okay. What am I doing with this sand?
Marisha: I agree with that. Are we supposed to do something with the sand?
Wil: Yeah, count it.
Marisha: Oh, that would take so long. Can we tag-team this?
Wil: She always like this?
Orion: Yes.
Will: Stormcloud's counting sand. I don't know what she's doing over here. Northeast. How about let's start walking that way and see what happens? Can we give that a shot?
Orion: I agree. You did the fancy spell.
Will: It's not as fancy as you might think.
Wil: I've pulled my axe out and I'm sort of holding it like a walking stick. And just very deliberately, very demonstratively walking ahead in that direction.
Matt: With each footfall, you know that what was once, probably hundreds of years ago, a nice cobblestone roadway in the center of the city has been slowly hit with mud, dirt, snow, sleet, and so each step is a slight moisture with each footfall.
Orion: I'm assuming there's no stables around.
Matt: Not immediately, those are usually to the very outside of the city.
Liam: Why are you jonesing for a horse?
Orion: So I don't get all dirty.
Matt: Thorbir, leading forward in the northeastern direction that was given by Brother Kash, eventually brings you around the side of the bazaar. And you can now see why it's called the Quad Roads, there are two main roads that meet right where the bazaar occurs and then they spread off into the other sections of the city. To the northeastern section, from your guys' perspective, the district begins to drift into another district that you have not previously visited. This district is, you've heard it mentioned before, known as the Duskmeadow. Now, previous sections you've been in have been worshipers of Bahamut, the Platinum Dragon. There was the Braving Grounds, which worships Kord, the god of strength and warfare and honor. The Quad Roads, which is under Erathis, the deity of civilization and invention. The Duskmeadow falls under the watchful eye of the Raven Queen, the goddess of death. That large obsidian-type structure that you were led to earlier is the temple that resides in the center of this district. And you've heard mention before of a few of the things that exist here. That being probably Raven's Crest, which is the main temple to the Raven Queen. This is also where the Amaranthine Oubliette is located, which is essentially the prison of the entire city of Vasselheim.
Marisha: The what?
Matt: The Amaranthine Oubliette.
Orion: Hammertime oubliette.
Marisha: Oh, there it is.
Matt: This is also where most of the dead of the city are interred into a series of catacombs that are built deep beneath this section of the city. Far enough away from the oubliette to the point where isn't crossover and is enough of an escape, because that apparently has happened in the past history of the city. As you begin pushing towards the edge of where the two districts meet, you can see that there is an area of the town that, for lack of better term, it's a more jovial than expected area. There are a series of stands put up along the side of the road. There's a lot of beggars sitting on the side of the street that are currently panhandling to those who walk by. There are a number of taverns. You can hear music coming from various establishments. And it seems almost the closer you get to the death-oriented district on the border of the Quad Roads, the more and more it pushes into a shadier Mardi Gras-type experience. So you make your way towards that dividing line there. What you would like to do?
Orion: What say you, Thorbir?
Wil: Let's ask around and see if anything has been a little out the ordinary, or maybe, in the ordinary.
Orion: Yes, I like that phrasing.
Will: Have to imagine anywhere this thing goes, there's going to be strange deaths associated with it. We might as well look there.
Orion: That's actually a good idea, as well.
Liam: And where we're walking, are there shops and stands, as well, or is it residential?
Matt: There are many that sell jewelry, many that sell very well-made clothing, some of them party attire, there are some that sell exotic fruits that have been imported in various states of ripeness.
Marisha: Is anyone selling any masks?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: Passive or active?
Matt: That would be an active perception check as you're seeking it.
Marisha: 21.
Matt: 21. You do glance around and there is one cart that carries costume, party attire supplies. It doesn't seem to have too many customers right now, but they do have a couple of masks that are on display.
Marisha: Are there any masks that look like tiger masks?
Matt: Looking at it, there are none that are tiger-specific, no. They seem to be molded leather and some more impish, goblin-y in appearance.
Marisha: Is there someone working the stand?
Matt: There is, yes. You see a woman in her forties or so, thin, with a big toothy smile. Her hair is pulled back into tight bun. You can see there's little bit of her blondish hair turning to gray on the sides around her ears, Reed Richard-style.
Orion: Did you say this was the Bahamut part of town, too?
Matt: The Bahamut section is far away. That's another section of the city. You are now on the line between the Duskmeadow and the Quad Roads, so it's Erathis and the Raven Queen.
Liam: I'm pulling a mask off the wall. This is a beautiful piece. Do you make them yourself?
Matt: "I do. I do, I make them myself by hand, hence the price."
Liam: They are quite beautiful. We're travelers here. I've never seen a neighborhood like this. Is there a festival going on here, or is this pretty much the basic fare of the day here?
Matt: "This is the localized festival of the city. If you've been around Vasselheim long enough you've seen there is little interest in celebration depending on some places. But, at least on this line, some people can appreciate the fleetness that is life and grasp it by the roots and make it its own before it's snuffed out."
Liam: Here particularly, there seems to be electricity in the air almost. It's very bustling. This is the norm around here?
Matt: "Consistently. That's why I come and bring my business here. I wouldn't do very well up north, I'll tell you that. All them dragon types--" Looks to you. "No offense. All them silver dragon lovers have an issue with things as celebratory."
Liam: And I pull out ten gold, and I spread them on her desk.
Matt: "How many masks?"
Liam: Oh, none.
Marisha: Oh, I would like one.
Matt: "Take your pick."
Liam: I slide one coin away from the other nine, and then dragging my finger across those say, is there anything out of the ordinary these days?
Matt: Go ahead and make a persuasion roll.
Liam: 15.
Matt: 15? She gives you a look like she's trying to read you, looks about left and right. Glances at you and looks a little ugh. Glances at you and looks really taken aback, and then comes back to you with a escape of comfort.
Liam: Watching her, I pull out another five and spread them in front of the first nine.
Matt: "Well, I mean, some businesses here are a bit shady, I won't lie. And there are some long-standing businesses that have quarrels. Usually, they end in small scuffles, or one purchases the other and ousts them from the city. This is one of the few areas in which the more adult pleasures can be found, so there's a lot of money to be had. But recently, there's been, at least from what I've heard, a series of bodies have turned up. There were a few found, fished out by the Bastions in the water trough on the outskirts of the Duskmeadow."
Liam: The Bastions  what are they?
Matt: "Bastions who are the guardians of the city. From what I hear, they had been mauled by some sort of strange beast."
Liam: Mauled?
Matt: "Now, beasts on the outside of the city, that I can see. But on the inside, that is the stuff of nightmares. Is it not?"
Orion: Yes, I would agree.
Marisha: Have you had invaders like this before?
Matt: "I mean, death is not an uncommon occurrence for certain areas of the city." And she gestures off to the distant temple. "Some people invite it, even. But such violent death like this is usually kept to the outside of the city, at least with some sort of cause. This seems to be a murderous rampage that, me personally, I don't want to go out at night without protection."
Marisha: Is there is any indication of the cause of death on these corpses? How do they find them?
Matt: "I don't know. I've not investigated. Perhaps you have to ask the Bastions yourself that. Or anyone who was in the vicinity."
Liam: And can you point us in the right direction?
Matt: She looks around, and points off. And you can see, there isn't a whole lot of Bastion presence in this portion of the city, especially since the Bastions are more of a voluntary guard. People from the different clergies, the different temples, train to become Bastions, and fit themselves with whatever their deity's armor is. You do see there are two Bastions armored in a very dark, dark brown leather that carry a symbol of what looks like a silver raven that is embroidered on one shoulder of a cloak that is tossed to one side.
Liam: These guys are right here, essentially?
Matt: Yeah. Oh. They're across the road about maybe a block up. "I believe they're Bastions from the Duskmeadow. Perhaps you could ask them."
Marisha: Does she have any masks that look like a raven? A raven mask?
Matt: She does actually have one that looks like a raven.
Marisha: I want that one.
Matt: "Very well. A good choice. It doesn't quite match the color of your attire, but perhaps I have an outfit that could match for you?"
Marisha: Oh!
Will: Oh my god, we're going clothes shopping.
Marisha: Do you have a little cloak as well? A little cape?
Matt: "Cloaks I don't, but there but there is a cloakery about four blocks that way on your left. They can probably help you there."
Marisha: Thank you so much.
Matt: "Of course."
Liam: I notice a serpent-shaped mask on the wall. I just pick it up and put it on and say, thank you, madam. Much obliged. And walk off and clap Thorbir on the shoulder and keep walking.
Wil: Thorbir hangs back a little bit and waits for them to get to the door. And he looks at the shop keep and, do you have any masks that might fit a little girl?
Matt: "Yes, of course, friend dwarf." And she goes and rummages through a small bag and pulls out a mask. This little purple mask that seems to have small fake gems forming the outside, with a couple of ribbons that dangle where it would tie around the head. It's simple, but it's pretty. "Unfortunately, not many people bring children to this side of the district. They don't sell very well. But if you would like one, I would be happy to part with for two gold?"
Wil: One gold.
Matt: Make a persuasion roll.
Wil: 18.
Matt: "One gold. Guess it is better to sell it than not at all. Here you are. I must say, I won't tell anyone, but purple is a pretty color on you."
Wil: Yes, it is. He walks out.
Matt: All right. A few moments pass as you wonder where your dwarven leader has vanished to, he steps out through the front of the establishment.
Wil: Let's go.
Orion: Great. Do you have potions? Are you all potioned up? Are you good on items, Thorbir?
Wil: I'm all right. Are you all right?
Orion: I'm just fine.
Liam: Well, we're in a rush, but if it's easy. How do you come by potions in this town?
Wil: Do I know the answer to that?
Matt: You do. They're either provided, from some of your experience, by the Slayer's Take, but those are usually offered at the start of a contract. The fact that they weren't offered on this means either they don't have any currently at their disposal, or they felt that this contract probably wouldn't require it with the construct of this group being set out. Other than that, they are a little hard to come by. A lot of them are controlled by the main temples and are pretty much given straight to the Bastions. There aren't a lot of individuals that are in need of them within the city, and those that travel out are either members of the Slayer's Take or members of the Bastion forces. So they are little hard to come by.
Wil: I think that if we're going to find them anywhere, it might be around here. Might be we can take some through trade. Maybe some might fall off a Bastion or two.
Orion: Well, let's go talk to one then, shall we?
Will: Thought that's what we were doing. Are going to the two Bastions over there or what?
Orion: Yes, Kashaw.
Will: Good. One other thing you need to know about them: they're horribly paid, so money talks with these people.
Orion: Very well.
Marisha: As he goes ahead, I keep up my pace until I trail behind him a little bit.
Will: Wonderful.
Liam: My hood goes up, and I'm gone.
Matt: All right. As you guys step across the way. It's about a block up. One of them is partially inside the alley between two of the buildings. You can see he has one hand up on the wall and the other down. One of them is relieving himself on the side of the building, while the other is keeping watch, arms crossed, looking out across the road. The one that's immediately present, or before you, you can see is human, a scruffy brown beard around the edge of the chin. The hair itself is cut very short. A little heavier in appearance. A little muscle, a little layer of winter padding, but the black leather armor definitely gives you the appearance of somebody who is a Bastion of the Raven Queen. As you approach, the hooded half-elf, the dwarf walking with the giant axe, and the bumbling dragonborn, the human cleric with a very angry disposition, and the awkward half-elf druid stepping in pace with him. Gives you all a cursory look and immediately puts a hand to his side where you can see that there is a rapier currently sheathed. "Aye, you walk with purpose."
Wil: We walk for the Guild.
Matt: "Slayer's Take it is?"
Wil: It is.
Matt: "What business have you on this side of town, then? Aren't you supposed to be out past the walls killing creatures and such?"
Wil: Our business takes us where our business takes us. Our business brings us here today.
Matt: "All right, then what's your business?"
Wil: You might be having some trouble?
Matt: "Aye."
Wil: What's causing you trouble and what's going to get us out of here might be the same thing.
Matt: The gentleman to the left of him finishes shaking off the rest of his alleyway journey.
Will: Any more than twice and you're just playing with it, pal.
Matt: He turns around and throws his tunic over. "Excuse me, it's official Bastion business. Anyway." And he nods over to the bearded gentleman who's standing there. "There are certain bits of business that are official in this town. I don't know how honestly right it is to be talking with common folk, or even the Guild who does what it likes."
Wil: I'm sorry, you're not talking to common folk.
Will: He wants money.
Wil: I know what he wants.
Will: Well, then give to him so we can get out of here.
Liam: I'm circling around.
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Liam: 31.
Matt: I'm not even going to roll. I'm going to ask you to go ahead and you can choose if you want persuasion or intimidation on this. You're riding that line.
Wil: I'm equally bad at both of them. But I think that Thorbir wants to go intimidation. I'll give that a try. There it is!
Orion: 20?
Wil: What's the exact opposite of that? (laughter)
Matt: You know, I've heard about it for so long.
Wil: I know, right? You can't believe that it's a real thing until you're actually there.
Liam: Everybody talks about spontaneous combustion, but I'd never believed it.
Wil: It's silly. It's so silly to do this.
Marisha: Dice shame.
Liam: Naughty.
Matt: I don't know what ancient Aztec deity's temple you defaced when you were a child, but man. All right, so as you lean forward--
Wil: Please, just let me step into a bucket. (laughter)
Matt: We'll get to that. As you lean forward, forcing your presence on this Bastion, his hand's still holding the edge of his rapier. He steps forward into you, to the point where you're almost forehead to forehead. "Sorry, I have to lean down to reach your level. But if you're going to go about asking questions and not offering proper compensation for information, well, then. I think we have no business here."
Wil: If it's compensation you're looking for, let's just speak plain. And I pull out four gold.
Liam: And while he has their attention, I'm going to check out his pockets.
Matt: Go ahead and make a perception check.
Liam: Ew, that's not good. I'm going to use Luck. That's better. That's all right. Perception, you said? 28.
Matt: 28? Taking a moment as you sneak up behind the one he's talking to-- the two guys are shoulder to shoulder, squaring off with the rest of this group. The one that had been relieving himself in the alleyway is a little bit closer to you. You can see as he put his tunic right and everything, he jostled around and revealed a couple of small pouches on his side. One of which, you heard a clinking of glass on the inside. Go ahead and make a sleight-of-hand check.
Marisha: Go rogue, go.
Liam: Because I'm wearing a Cloak of Elvenkind, which I know affects stealth checks but not--
Matt: Not sleight of hand, no.
Liam: That's all right. 20.
Matt: 20. All right. You reach over and find the edge of the leather loop that attaches itself to the side of this Bastion's belt. You tug ever so gently to the side and the loop releases and you pull it off, seemingly without any noticing. As you pull out the four gold from inside, the Bastion looks out and scoffs and goes, "Clearly, pittance fee for this. What's to let me think that you aren't actually part of this murder scheme? You just walk up and try and start asking questions like this. First off, where did you hear about it? Second, you look like the kind that would go ahead and be mauling folks in the street, do you not, sir dwarf? You got the eyes of one who's probably done a few dark deeds."
Wil: Oh, I have. More than you can imagine.
Matt: "Then explain to me why we shouldn't take you in for questioning right now." And he pulls his rapier out.
Orion: Hold on. Everybody calm down. Hi, I'm Tiberius Stormwind. My friend Thorbir here didn't mean to offend, of course.
Matt: The blade up toward your face. And he says, "Look, dragon man, I was talking to the dwarf. You, I have no business with at the moment. So. You've got ten seconds before we take you in."
Wil: I reach into my pocket and rattle my coins around a little bit. Maybe I could buy us some time. And I drop ten gold out into my other hand.
Matt: Make a persuasion roll.
Will: One! No, it isn't.
Matt: Three.
Wil: That's funny. I rolled a three on this die. So that's going to be a six. Guys, I think we're fighting the Bastions. I feel like maybe it's going that way.
Marisha: You rolled a one?
Matt: I rolled one.
Marisha: You all have really low self-confidence.
Matt: As you push forward the coins, in a semi-awkward forceful manner, the Bastion himself also seems to be caught off-guard, and looks down, and looks about. Realizing that now it looks like you are visibly out in the open, paying money to the Bastions. He looks back. "People don't stand out in public and do it!" And he pulls you all off into the alleyway to the side of the complex. Out of the middle of the area into the shade between the buildings. He reaches over and takes the coins from your hand and hurries them into a pocket. "All right, look. I'll tell you what we know. But if you're going to be messing around with this investigation, I ask that you don't let anyone know that you spoke with us. This is all on your own. And if you do say anything, we'll deny it and we'll make sure to put you in the Oubliette yourself for this. All right?"
Orion: Fair enough.
Wil: All right.
Will: All right.
Matt: "Now, we have found a series of bodies over the past few years, scattered about. A few months at a time between. All with a similar pattern of death to them. We found large portions, the meaty portions of the body had been torn away, some of them apparently eaten. There are marks that are indicative of some sort of beast ravaging the corpses, but no signs of a beast coming or going. And we've had many of our finest trackers looking for any sort of sign of a creature that may have found its way into the city. They've been in the rooftops, the gutters, perhaps even the sewers. No sign of any such creature traveling amongst any of these scenes. Now, all of the bodies have been found wrapped up and discarded in the canals. A lot of them surrounding the Abundant Terrace." Looks at the rest of you. "That's where Melora's eye is watchful. What's really got us confused of late is, the most recent murder that we found was a very powerful merchant lord from Ank'harel, one that's been in this city for no more than a month. He's well-known in these parts as bringing in a lot of business. His caravans come through via various skyships. And he brings with himself an influx of much-needed mercantile in the city."
Marisha: What's his name?
Matt: "I'm not allowed to say."
Will: You're not allowed to say?
Matt: "The merchant's name is Tyrell."
Marisha: What?
Matt: "Tyrell. Lord Tyrell. If you say any of this to any of our people, I swear I'll make your life the hardest it's been in months. And from the looks of you, you've had a very hard few months. Lord Tyrell's body was found, but apparently during the murder. We have one beggar that apparently caught sight of this the murderer. As best as we can tell, it was some sort of lycanthrope. The beggar was babbling, but it seemed there was some sort of wolf-like creature. It was seen bipedal walking a man, but tore this man right through the throat, most of his chest. But when spotted, didn't run, just vanished. Disappeared. No longer in his sight. No tracks left behind. Just gone. Didn't know if it was angry poltergeist, ghost. But the last place he was staying is at a recent establishment, only been here a couple of years. Referred to as the Velvet Cabaret. The Velvet Cabaret is a very high-end place."
Will: I know it well.
Matt: "You do?" He gives you a look of--
Will: I've heard about it from somewhere else.
Orion: Scanlan? Have you been talking to Scanlan?
Will: Don't know who that is, Stormshadow.
Orion: He likes whores. Okay. It's weird.
Matt: "The fact that that the lord had been staying at the Velvet Cabaret for some time, and we were feeling pretty close to possibly finding the source of these murders. Our bastion force from the Duskmeadow worked with the Quadroads and we actually raided it. Found nothing. Nothing but the patrons, no sign of any sort of foul play. We were forced to leave empty handed. That's all we've got."
Will: I have a question about the bodies. Have you seen them?
Matt: "I've only seen the most recent. The rest, I've just heard of."
Will: Anything similar with them? Are they all men? Are they all women? Are they children?
Matt: "No children. Most of them seem to be well off to do folk. Dressed well."
Will: Wealthy men and women? And you say you've searched everywhere, including the catacombs?
Matt: "Most. Catacombs themselves are sealed off. We've asked around, and there's been no sign of movement in or out. And gods forbid, anyone stays in those places. That's a nasty place to be staying."
Will: It is, indeed.
Orion: Is there a way that the bastions could organize some kind of gathering of sorts? Perhaps a mandatory town meeting, where all would have to gather for maybe an announcement or something official?
Matt: "All the bastions? That's near impossible. The city's scattered politically enough as it is. People can be rallying whenever there's some sort of force coming against the city. But when it comes to nothing for any particular reason, just the investigators take care of it themselves."
Wil: He serves the Raven Queen, right? He's got the Raven Queen patch on him?
Matt: Yeah.
Wil: This part of town, death isn't the worst thing in the world. Lots of planes other than ours, might be you're a little bit closer than some of the rest of us are; we're underneath the mountain. You wouldn't happen to know about anyone performing any rituals or maybe opening up lines of communication that may have been made and disturbed?
Matt: "I certainly hope not. These sort of communion rituals are sanctified and held within the actual temple to the Raven Queen itself. If anyone is doing any sort of business, there is a very watchful eye over the city. Anything that is unsanctioned, I can guarantee we'll know about it."
Orion: May we seek audience with this Raven Queen?
Marisha: I mean, she's a goddess.
Orion: Oh. She's not here?
Marisha: She's not a queen. She's a goddess.
Matt: You can see the two the two bastions are looking at each other with expression of "Really?"
Orion: We're new around here.
Matt: "Listen, we've talked long enough. We got to get back to our posts."
Marisha: Oh, wait. You mentioned investigators?
Matt: "There are different people assigned to investigate. We were part of the team that was sent as part of the investigation raid on the Velvet Cabaret."
Marisha: It's not a group of people. It's just, "you're an investigator today" kind of thing?
Matt: "That's part of what we do as Bastions, aye."
Marisha: Gotcha. Is there anyone else that is part of the investigation team that you think would be good to talk to?
Matt: "They wouldn't have any more information than we do, no."
Marisha: Can I do an insight check on him?
Matt: Yeah, go for it.
Marisha: 23.
Matt: He seems forthright enough. He seems impatient and a little flustered with the fact that you've been pushing these questions to him. But he doesn't seem to be covering anything necessarily.
Wil: Did he tell us where they found the-- I didn't write this down.
Liam: And Lord Tyrell factored in how?
Wil: Can you tell us where you found the body of the merchant lord?
Matt: "The body was found in the side alley to the Velvet Cabaret."
Will: You said wrapped up? Or just the ones in the river were wrapped up?
Matt: "The ones that were found in the river, they were wrapped up in blankets. Whatever put them aside was not some beast. There was some intelligence to this. And they were placed deliberately, which means, I don't think there's just one thing doing this."
Will: Were the blankets the same, or were they all different?
Matt: "They seemed to be different. Some were just scattered cloths. Some were tattered sheets. Some were bolts of fine material. Really varied. There was no pattern to it."
Will: Was anything missing from Lord Tyrell?
Matt: "Nothing more than his throat, his trachea."
Liam: We've pumped these guys for all they've got.
Wil: You're all right. Sorry about that.
Matt: "It's all right, just offer more coin up front next time. Be well. And if you hear anything, find any information, come straight to us. Don't be getting into official business. You're sanctified as a Slayer, but don't make us look bad." They step around you guys, back out into the main street.
Wil: Velvet Cabaret?
Marisha: Velvet Cabaret.
Will: It's close.
Marisha: So we know that this guy-- while we walk there, I was talking. We know that this guy is a demon from the Nine Hells. So, he seems to be targeting wealthy people. Do you think these are people that tried to get under his control, under his servitude, and it didn't go his way, so he ended up killing them?
Wil: Folk don't go into the Velvet Cabaret unless they got a lot of coin. Someone like Lord Tyrell. Do we know anything about him? Does his name ring any bells for us at all?
Matt: Roll a history check.
Wil: Oh boy. (laughs) It happened again!
Matt: This is unprecedented. You are the nega-Percy right now.
Wil: Just telling you. I'm just telling you.
Matt: This is impressive.
Wil: You think it isn't real. You think it's a thing I make jokes about.
Matt: You take a moment to conjecture where you may have heard the name. What was the name again?
Wil: Oh, the guy from Battlestar Galactica. Oh, what was his name? Adama?
Matt: You want to roll a history check?
Will: d20?
Matt: d20 and add your history modifier.
Will: Add my history. 20. Total of 20.
Matt: Total is 20? All right. You've heard of the city of Ank'Harel. It's a desert city from a long ways away. But you aren't specifically aware of this individual. You however, Kashaw, you know that Lord Tyrell has come through this city a few times in the past year or so. You've only been here a short time yourself, but in the time that you've been here, you've heard tales of this large caravan that comes through. And it is a parade. He usually brings with him a good 13 different carts that contain all sorts of jewels and materials and tapestries and fine silks, and it's almost a small party whenever this is this long walking caravan is brought into the city. So you are aware of this individual. You're surprised that the death has be kept so hush-hush.
Will: And are there rumors of about him bring in anything else? Anything illicit? Or is it kind of "what you see is what you get?"
Matt: As far as you know? No information that has caught your ear per se, but the fact that he's staying in this district, who knows?
Wil: Folks tend to stay-- Let me try that again. Folk tend to stay with their own class. These victims are all wealthy folk. And they seem to have the Velvet Cabaret in common. It's very likely that we're dealing with somebody who is rich and powerful.
Will: What does a demon need money for?
Wil: Who says he's after money?
Marisha: Seems to be after power.
Liam: Tyrell was passing through. I wonder how many people would notice him gone here in Vasselheim.
Orion: I'm sure quite a few.
Marisha: And it seems like it's no secret when he comes to town.
Will: It was a party every time he showed up.
Marisha: And according to the guards, these murders have been going on for the past few years, so it seems like whatever we're dealing with might have time to plan ahead. If he's been aware of the past few times that Tyrell has come through the town and could possibly know the next time he's coming through.
Orion: And if we could pinpoint when it actually started, we know years, but actually when, then we can actually narrow it down to the establishments and other things that were established then.
Wil: Would there be a place where we could inquire as to some sort of ledger like that when this guy comes in and with the intention of trying to correlate it with when different murders have happened? Actually, I take that back. Thorbir doesn't think that deeply. That's not the thing that he wants to do. That sounds like a lot of thinking and not a lot of hitting things.
Liam: This killer could be hiding in plain sight at the Cabaret. Could be an employee there.
Orion: Or the owner himself.
Marisha: How long ago did the bastions say that they raided the Velvet Cabaret?
Will: It was a month ago, wasn't it?
Matt: It was a few weeks back when the murder occurred, yeah.
Marisha: So here's my question  do you think he would stick around after it was raided? Or do you think he'd move on?
Liam: The thing is vanishing upon sight.
Will: And gotten away with it for the last two or three years. I don't think he cares much anymore.
Liam: My question is  we have three days, Cabaret's the only lead we have. How do we draw this person, he or she, out?
Marisha: I believe it is three days.
Liam: We have three days to collar it.
Matt: You have three days to complete the contract, meaning slaying the entity you're contracted to.
Will: I was going to say that you look like a man who knows wealth.
Orion: Yes.
Liam: I've spent time with wealth.
Will: Well, I never have, so I would think maybe if you were a merchant coming into town, very wealthy, looking for some adult entertainment, might be a way to bring him out the forefront.
Orion: Oh, I agree. I cast Alter Self on myself and turn myself into an elf. You're half-elf right?
Liam: Half-elves.
Orion: I'll turn into a half-elf, akin to a high-born half elf.
Matt: All right, fair enough. Even in comparison to Vax, your attire is very nice.
Marisha: Does this mean that I should go change clothes?
Will: You were going to go shopping.
Marisha: I was.
Orion: You look okay.
Marisha: Thank you.
Liam: Let's go. I jingle what gold I have in a pouch in front of Keyleth's face and say, let's go shopping. Come on.
Wil: Shopping montage.
Matt: As you guys go out shopping for better looking, well-to-do attire, we'll go ahead and take a quick five-minute break and we'll return here and as you guys continue to the next step of your hunt for the rakshasa.
Wil: Oh, Tyrell! I just remembered. (laughter)
Wil: What a silly thing to forget.
Liam: As the rakshasa bears down on your head.
Matt: Last thing engraved on your tombstone. Yeah, quick five-minute break. First off, before we get to that, guys: A big thank you to Negihama once again, our patron saint of ridiculous gifts, who purchased these sconces to put on the wall.
Liam: They're legit.
Marisha: Aren't the sconces awesome?
Matt: They are amazing.
Marisha: The LEDs change colors.
Matt: Reminder  every hundred subs we're giving away a signed picture and signed full-scale poster of Kit's art. And for the break, the five-minute break we're going to take real fast, we have an awesome video that was presented to us by some of the Critters that I think you'll also appreciate as well. So we'll go ahead roll that and use the potty and we'll see you guys in a few minutes. [break]
Matt: Welcome back. I assume we'll have a Liam here in just a moment.
Orion: He's just stealthing.
Will: He's stealthing. He rolled a 28 and disappeared.
Wil: I was talking Liam's ear off during the break about how much I love the dynamic among the three of you, and commiserating about how you feel really naked and exposed when your whole party isn't together. How weird that feels to not have everybody together at the same time. I think I kept him from the bathroom.
Matt: Oh, gotcha. That's okay. He'll arrive. When he comes, we'll all awkwardly stare. Yeah. When he does. When he arrives we'll all just-- But in the meantime, you managed to go back and--
Liam: Stealth. Disadvantage on my next five attacks. (laughter)
Will: I love the awkward stare. It was great.
Wil: He's actually a very generous DM if he does that. I actually make my players roll damage when they upset me.
Matt: Oh, that's good to know.
Wil: Yeah, dude, d6 damage if you annoy the GM.
Matt: Wrath of the gods comes down upon you. All right, so you guys taken a few minutes to acquire outfits that seem a little more fitting as to the establishment you're planning to go and enter.
Marisha: Guys, we should have aliases. Can we have aliases?
Wil: Yeah, I'll be Thorbir.
Will: I like it. It's easy to remember.
Marisha: Very easy. Oh, you know what, maybe I could-- would it be weird if I'm Vex? That's weird, isn't it?
Liam: That's really weird.
Marisha: Okay. What's a good elven name? What's something common in Elven? You were around this stuff. All of my people have weird tribal names. What's good?
Liam: Elivr is nice. Coralin.
Marisha: Oh, Coralin. Do I look like a Coralin?
Will: What does a Coralin look like?
Orion: She does that. Just agree.
Liam: I will be Scanlan Shorthalt.
Marisha: (stutters) What, you can be Scanlan, but I couldn't be Vex?
Liam: No, you can't do that. I'm just saying it's weird.
Marisha: That's double standard, Vax. I'm just saying.
Orion: I think it's maybe because you're not his sister and it would be weird because that's his sister's name.
Will: You have a sister?
Liam: I have a twin, yes.
Will: What does she look like? Oh.
Orion: But she's a female.
Will: She sounds lovely.
Wil: Humans, am I right?
Marisha: She's very nice.
Will: That's what they say about all the ugly girls. "She's very nice."
Marisha: I feel like I'm learning so much from you. Is that what they say?
Orion: Life lessons, yes.
Will: Velvet Cabaret?
Liam: To the Cabaret.
Wil: I presume that I'll play the role of your guard.
Liam: Bodyguard, yes.
Will: What does that make me? How about your valet? You'll need one if you're wealthy. Would you have a human, though?
Liam: Of course. Of course I'll have a human, being elven.
Orion: Are we on our way there now?
Liam: Yeah, we're walking and talking. And you're changed into a gnome.
Orion: Now I change. I change, because it only lasts a certain amount of time.
Liam: Boy or girl?
Orion: I'm a boy.
Will: So are you Lord Vax?
Liam: Lord Scanlan of the Shorthalts.
Will: Lord Scanlan, okay. Lord Scanlan of the-- I'm sorry, of the what?
Liam: Of the Shorthalts.
Will: Of the Shorthalts. Okay.
Liam: We have a cobbling empire. Shoes.
Will: The Shorthalts. Okay. Lord Scanlan of the Shorthalts.
Liam: We cater mostly to halflings and gnomes. Everyone, but specifically because they're so underserved.
Will: You have a gnome shoe empire?
Liam: Rolling in it, baby.
Wil: Where's your empire, human?
Will: I have no empire. I'm his valet.
Liam: We're wonderful partners, dear.
Marisha: Am I your wife?
Liam: Do you want to be? Is that weird?
Marisha: No.
Orion: I say it's equally-- no, it's fine.
Marisha: No, it's fine. Yeah, I can be your wife. I can RP this. I mean I can pretend to be. Yeah. So Coralin Shorthalt.
Wil: Thorbir is pulling on his beard and breathing deeply.
Orion: Now I cast Alter Self.
Matt: All right. Cast and a flash of light. You guys all pick up the very, very heavy smell of breakfast ale emanating from the deeply breathing, angry dwarf.
Orion: Wait, Vax. What was my role in this?
Liam: You're an advisor. A financial advisor.
Orion: Financial advisor. Excellent.
Matt: All right. You guys make your way to a little bit further north this of this route, five or six blocks until you get the outskirts of the Velvet Cabaret, which based on the description you've gotten from a few individuals you asked around, very easy to find. The fancy house of entertainment. It is a two-story building of dark cherry wood with strips of what looks to be black suede bolted in a pattern along the outside of it. It stands out like a sore thumb against the rest of the architecture, but it looks a night club. It looks very, very gaudy, but in a way that the garishness looks expensive, and so you can't really fault it for looking the way it does.
Wil: It looks like cruise ship goth club.
Matt: I like that. I'll take that.
Will: Cruise ship goth club.
Wil: That's a thing that exists.
Will: Really?!
Matt: When are we going to this?
Wil: Every year on the Jonathan Coulton Cruise, we gather in the cruise ship goth club.
Will: Wow.
Matt: JoCo Cruise.
Will: Too many jokes.
Matt: I know. As you approach the front, you can see that there are two bouncers established at the very front. To the left, you see a meaty male dragonborn, bronze scale with painted face scars. He has a very, very intense look about him. He's thicker. He's built like a barrel. He sits with his arms crossed, looking angrily out amongst the rest of the folks outside. To the other side, you recognize a burly-looking female with short hair and some facial tattoos. The Siren, who you saw battle in the Cauldron, apparently works as one of the bouncers of the Velvet Cabaret.
Orion: I approach right next to Vax, as we move up. Scanlan. In Draconic I go, greetings and salutations, friend.
Matt: He gives you a look of confusion for a second and leans forward and the dragonborn looks very intently at you and says back in Draconic, "Are you a member?"
Orion: Not yet. We are new to this place. My master here is seeking audience with his kind. We were guided to this place. This establishment has a high reputation. We wish to inquire how to get inside.
Matt: Looks over to the Siren. Siren glances back and, "What's he saying?" And the dragonborn glances over. And he says out loud in Common now, at this point, "He's saying that they're looking to come in here and talk to other elvish guys, I guess."
Orion: Oh, not elvish, but more people of high society. High society here.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Orion: 21.
Matt: 21. He gives a glance over. "Well, if you're not a member, you can acquire membership, but it has to approved first by the owner."
Orion: May we seek audience with him to ask or apply, or however that goes about.
Matt: "Let me get his assistant. Hold on just a second. Siren." She gives a look. "I'll be right back." She rolls up her sleeves and steps inside as the door opens.
Marisha: As I see her, I turn and face outward.
Will: You know her?
Marisha: No.
Will: Okay.
Matt: As the door opens, you can already hear what sounds like soft harp music coming from the interior. And it's hard to actually look inside because as you can see there are silks draped crossed over and in front of the entryway, as soon as you step in. A few moments pass, eventually the Siren returns and you are greeted at the doorway by a dwarf with very well-groomed facial hair. A beard that comes to a fine point, has a little gold ring at the very bottom that kinks it at the bottom, this little poof. With makeup on. Very rosy cheeks, and you can see there is eyeliner around his eyes. Smile to his face. Wearing these long white robes, lots of jewelry. And the rest of his dark brown hair is pulled into a dual ponytail that runs down to the middle of the back. Comes to door and immediately says, "Gracious welcome to all of you. I've been told that you're seeking possible membership to our establishment."
Orion: In Dwarvish I say, that's correct.
Matt: "Well, fantastic, then. Don't leave possible patrons outside." And looks off to the two bouncers and they grumble and step off to the side. "Come in. Come in. Follow me." And he steps inside. As you guys walk in behind him, immediately you're hit with the strong smell of exotic incense and the cooking of meat mingling with that. It has this smell of everything good you've ever smelled mixed into one location.
Will: Love the smell of these places.
Matt: The interior is fairly low-lit with what looks like a series of faerie-fire lamps dangling in small lattice cages. So it has this light purplish-pink glow to the general interior. There are no stools or chairs. There are tables that low set and the floor is nearly covered with very, very expensive looking pillows. All the patrons are currently sitting cross-legged or laying around the tables. And you can see the clientele is very well dressed and very wealthy. There is laughter and conversation. There's definitely has a very, very different air. It's like stepping into a whole different world from what you're used to seeing in Vasselheim. And you get the feeling that whoever created this establishment definitely created it to provide a very different experience for most people who work here, which means one, it probably makes a really good killing to the small number of clientele, number two, it probably isn't very well liked by the people who have been living here most their life. As you look around, too, there are dice games being played, there are many gold pieces being stacked up on tables. It appears that there's definitely a lively-- what's the word I'm looking for? My brain isn't working-- gambling arrangement in this place. You notice that all the guards in the inside, the bouncers, are common sell-swords. There's no unification to their adornments or any of their armor and stuff. There are a few folks that are looking around, keeping the peace, arms crossed. They all definitely have weapons visible. And they're just sitting there, guarding just like the bouncers were at front of the place.
Will: How many dwarves?
Matt: Just the one that let you inside.
Marisha: I reach over and I grab Vax's hand.
Liam: I fold her arm in and walk forward.
Matt: All right.
Will: I think, as they move forward, I would like to pull Thorbir aside and say, maybe since we're trying to get membership here, you should cover your runes.
Wil: Noted.
Will: Thank you.
Wil: I'd like to make a perception check to size up the guards around. Ten.
Matt: Well, that's a step in the right direction.
Wil: I rolled four times as good as I usually roll.
Matt: Looking about, they look armored. It's hard to tell their skill level, based on the low light in here. They seem definitely keeping an eye out, but you can tell they've been working here a while and they've grown comfortable. What you do notice, though, is a lot of the servers that are walking around are young men and women dressed in very fine silk robes or gowns. All have these iron bands around their neck, collars, that aren't chained to anything. But it immediately gives you this mental image of slavery or some sort of servitude. It does not appear that they are actually in some sort of servitude, but the adornment they wear is almost trying to get across that atmosphere, as if that's part of what you're paying for. It sickens you a little.
Wil: I'm going to carry myself and I'm going to do what I can to give off that I'm keeping an eye on this guy, that I'm the guy. That's how I'm trying to carry myself.
Matt: Okay. As you guys you have walked to the center of this room now, the dwarf individual who let you in turns around and with a bit of a bow. "I would to introduce myself. My name is Hosin. I am the manager of this fine establishment, the Velvet Cabaret. I'd like to welcome you..."
Liam: Scanlan of the Shorthalts.
Matt: "Scanlan of the Shorthalts? Where do you hail from? I've not heard of them."
Liam: We come from Emon. I sell shoes. We sell shoes.
Marisha: Yes, Coralin Shorthalt.
Matt: "Coralin Shorthalt."
Marisha: Yes, pleasure.
Matt: "Very well. Well, you have interest in membership you say?"
Liam: We do. We're hoping to sample the atmosphere here. Is there entertainment? We heard there was great entertainment.
Matt: "Oh yes, quite entertainment here at certain hours, if you like. For now, we have more an atmospheric presentation." And he looks over, and you can you see that there is small stage off to the corner. There sits a very beautiful elven woman, dressed in a gold gown that is sleeveless and hugs to her form very well. You can see that it shimmers and little bit of purple fairy light that is hanging above her. And she just this gorgeous-looking silver harp in front of her. She's just plucking away. Her eyes are closed, like she's just caught in the moment. And there's group of people that are sitting around her chatting softly, not to be overbearing to the music, but to just be around that atmosphere.
Orion: Your wonderful employees mentioned membership. We'd like to acquire that as well, I assume, as well.
Matt: You're saying this to Hosin?
Liam: This is Thorlaxalux, my financial advisor.
Orion: Thorlaxalux, at your service. I bow gracefully.
Matt: Make a persuasion roll. No, deception roll. Deception roll.
Orion: What is that? 16?
Matt: 16? All right. "The pleasure is mine. And it's not often that come across elves that have taken the time to learn the tongue of my folk."
Orion: I know many languages.
Marisha: He's very well traveled. Very well cultured. That's part why we hired him.
Orion: I was a bit of a shut-in as a child. All I had were books on languages to read and whatnot, and adventures and what have you.
Matt: "Well, if you are seeking membership, you should probably speak with our patron, the owner of this establishment. He's currently in a meeting, I believe, but step with me for a moment." And he leads you to go to the other side of the room. And you know, all these draped orange and gold silks that are constantly getting in your way as you push through. Leads you into a doorway that is covered in these silks. You push into the hallway to the right and left. There's a door across the way, and two doors down the left. And the door at the very end is a really ornate-looking door with a series of locks that currently unlocked. Hosin walks up to it and knocks gently onto it, takes a listen. "Ah, it appears that he will be available in just a moment, if you'd like to sit tight, and you're more than welcome to speak."
Marisha: Question, Hosin. While we wait, do you happen to have any wine or ale? Just while we wait. It's been such a long travel.
Matt: "But of course."
Marisha: Thank you. You're so kind.
Matt: He claps his hands, and you can see one of the servants that you saw walking with a small tray enters from the side of the hallway. "Yes?" Hosin turns. "The finest wine we have available for the elven lass right here." The servant immediately darts off, averting the eyes. A moment passes. Returns with three glasses of wine, looking over you two. Hands one to each of you. And the servant, still averting his gaze from the guests, smiles, gives a little curtsy, and then darts back into the main room.
Marisha: Cheers. Cling.
Liam: I cling and hand my glass to Thorbir.
Marisha: I take a sip of mine. It's very good.
Wil: All right. I'm sipping to keep up the charade, but I'm not happy about it.
Matt: It's definitely an elvish blend, which is generally too sweet for your tastes, but for what you were expecting, it's not too bad. Its serviceable. Nowhere near strong enough to really do anything, but it's not water.
Wil: So as I hand it back to you, I sort of mutter, wine. (laughter)
Wil: Giant dwarven air quotes.
Matt: The doorway at the end of the hallway opens up suddenly, and as it does, a servant walks out holding a tray that contains a bunch of partially-eaten fruits and what looks the outer gristle of some sort of cooked meat, and looks at you all awkwardly and steps past and disappears into the other room. You hear a voice come down the hallway. "Enter! I ask you all to enter. You are to meet me. Please, come, sit, be comfortable. Welcome to the Velvet Cabaret."
Liam: Look to Thorbir and then look in the room.
Wil: I step into the room.
Matt: As you enter, Hosin lowers his head and offers his arms at the rest of you to acquiesce. Stepping into the room, you see-- once again, a room that has a square or rectangular table in the center that has a series of small platters on it with bits of previously devoured meal, and there are three small cushions on the ground that you see would act as some sort of sitting arrangement. The opposite side of the room has three large purple cushions on which there are two women, also servants, that are just lying back comfortably, just resting, and in the center, you see a man, very dark complexion, ratty looking, crimped dark hair, very well-trimmed beard and mustache ensemble, and long black and gold robes. Very, very long sleeves and jewelry adorning every ounce of his hands, his fingers, you can barely see the actual skin beneath, there is just so much jewelry adorning him. He looks up smiling with his elbows near the edge of the table. "Have a seat. We are to talk, yes? Introduce yourselves. Guests are always welcome, but I wish to know who it is that I am guesting for."
Liam: I seat Coralin and have a seat myself. And pretending to check out the women in the room, I make a perception check. And that is a 16.
Matt: All right, what are trying to see?
Liam: Oh, if anything sets off my alarm bells.
Matt: They seem to be lounging. And there isn't like fear in their eyes or that they are being mistreated per se. Almost like they're here for atmosphere.
Liam: And the room itself?
Matt: The room itself-- Most of the walls have like a velvety texture to them. All the wood has been covered with some sort of material that has a comfortable almost-- Everything feels like it's a lounging bedroom. And that's the aesthetic of a lot of the interior of this location. You cannot quite see the source of the light in the room. It almost feels like there's an indirect lighting accoutrement across the ceiling. Whatever the source of lighting is, it's being spread across the top. It gives this sort of dark intimate feel to this current room at least. As he gestures out to the rest of you to sit. "I fear there are only three seats, but I assume that your accompaniment are accustomed to standing, anyway. So do not worry. Very good. Now you say you come for membership. Membership does not come cheap. Membership does not come to anyone. We have a certain level of clientele we wish to keep, because in keeping this it is easy enough for us to consider it very-- how do I say?-- exquisite."
Marisha: I'm sorry, before we go on, what was your name? I don't believe I caught it.
Matt: "I did not catch your name either."
Marisha: Oh, I'm sorry, I am Coralin. Coralin Shorthalt.
Matt: "Coralin Shorthalt."
Marisha: Of the Emon Shorthalts.
Matt: Takes your hand and leans forward, and gives you this ginger kiss to edge of your fingers. Yeah, there is a slimy-ish presence, but not too aggressive. Just a very well-trained type of dealing with guests.
Marisha: I subversively wipe it on my robes.
Matt: "My name is Vince Cyinnor. And I am the owner of this house of joy and pleasure."
Liam: I'm the lucky man who married her. My name is Scanlan of the Shorthalts. We're in from Emon, and reputation of this establishment is well known within all parts of the walls. We're looking to possibly become members here. We hear the entertainment is top-notch, and we hear that business happens within these walls. But I'm not convinced. I'm hoping to stay for an hour to see what you have to offer. When I find I like a place, I stay for a long time and leave a lot of money. I'd just like a little taste.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Liam: Using my last Luck of the day. That's better. 15.
Matt: 15. "Hosin, if you don't mind." And the door closes behind you guys. "Well, Scanlan Shorthalt. What, may I ask, business do you run that gives you the liquid assets to think that you can walk and rub shoulders among such astute clientele? You are well-dressed, I see, and well-versed in conversation. But have not heard of you before and I have very acute ears for people of such heritage in this city."
Liam: We hail from Emon. We're not very flashy. We certainly don't do much in public in Emon. I prefer to make my money and enjoy my money and I don't believe in ostentation.
Matt: "Why have you come to this establishment? I am made of ostentation, for I do not fear what people judge or think here. Do what you like."
Liam: Don't get me wrong. I enjoy the form of a beautiful woman as much as the next man.
Matt: "Why limit yourself?"
Liam: Who said I do?
Matt: "Even this one here, while his appearance may be rough, I'm certain that under certain circumstances he could be persuaded to prove his weight in more than gold and weaponry."
Marisha: Mr. Cyinnor, I think it is best that you do not make presumptions on our relationship and dealings.
Liam: My wife and I are businessmen. And what we hear is that this is where business happens.
Matt: "Business does happen here, yes. Quite a bit of interesting business."
Marisha: And we are very interested in all of those interesting businesses.
Matt: "From what I hear, as my assistant has told me, your business is shoes. Tell me, why would the business of shoes require such an ostentatious location for business?"
Liam: The shoes are the public face, but the well runs deep.
Matt: "We get to the meat of the matter, eh? So, shoes is but an appearance. What is your business aside from cobbling, Mr. Shorthalt?"
Liam: I know my way around poison, and I hear you have the rarest of breeds here. I have come to spend some money to satisfy my clients.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Liam: 15 again.
Matt: What was it?
Liam: 15 again.
Matt: "Poisons? So you supply to what? King-killers? Supply to sell-swords? You apply them to your own weapons? You realize this city is very, very tight-knit when it comes to these sorts of industries. Although I know you would think possibly to find it here, I guarantee you what we deal with here has nothing to do with slitting of throats."
Liam: I'm not looking to sell. I'm looking to buy.
Matt: "I will tell you one thing that I am interested in buying. I'm interested in buying information. I'm interested in buying loyalty. I'm interested in buying trust. Since you've walked into this room, there has been an air of something not right about you. And through this conversation, I have come to believe that perhaps you're not telling me the truth. Now, I will ask of you this moment, whoever you may be, Shorthalt or not, but this entire facility is very well paid to make sure that should you try anything funny, you won't get but two steps before the heads leave your shoulders. So let's be frank here. Who are you? Why are you here?"
Marisha: Mr. Vince, let's not play coy. I am sure you have dealt with many a powerful client in your day. And I am sure that it is not unfamiliar to you that many powerful clients have many deep secrets.
Orion: As she finishes that, I dispel Alter Self.
Matt: Okay. As your actual dragonborn appearance restores itself, he sits back.
Orion: My apologies. I am Tiberius Stormwind-- yes, wind.
Will: I can never get it right.
Orion: I merely dispelled this to show you that earning your trust is in our best interests. I do not wish to deceive.
Matt: "Then perhaps you should have walked in this form when you first arrived."
Orion: Many people don't take kindly to a red dragonborn by the way. I just thought it was best. We're in a new town and it was standard protocol whenever we visit a new town. My apologies.
Matt: "Well, one person has come clean. What about this one? What is your business here?"
Will: My business here is the same as theirs. We're here, in the long run, to help you.
Matt: "What is to help me? You have not told me what your business is."
Liam: We're here to stop a murderer.
Matt: "Explain."
Liam: Bodies have been showing up outside this building. Multiple bodies. We're not going to get into the details, but we've been sent here to stop that from happening any further.
Orion: We're fairly sure you know of this.
Liam: Look at this guy. Does he look like he's fucking around?
Wil: He winks at him.
Matt: The force of the wink itself is intense enough to the point where he physically shudders and leans back a few inches.
Liam: Now, you must be aware of this problem. Can't be a surprise to you. People are starting to take notice in this city. This was inevitable.
Will: Do you still have Lord Tyrell's possessions?
Matt: "This is about Lord Tyrell? We do have his possessions. They have been investigated. Our establishment has already been investigated. The Bastions were very thorough, and we have been found absolved of any sort of involvement."
Marisha: We are not Bastions. And we are not here to accuse. And we are not here to investigate your establishment.
Matt: "Interesting. You come in here and lie. It seems to me exactly what you're doing. Now, are you coming to ask questions? To see what involvement we have? Answers? We've already told everything to anyone else. We have no involvement. I don't know what you're talking about. This is ridiculous. And I may have to ask you to leave."
Marisha: He's shutting down. Someone do something quick.
Liam: Insight check, insight check. Balls.
Wil: I will also make an insight check.
Marisha: Can I do that, as well? (laughter)
Matt: What did you get?
Marisha: We're all going to die.
Liam: That makes my ten look titanic.
Wil: I'm trying to make you look good. It's what Thorbir does.
Marisha: 19.
Wil: I rolled a two.
Will: You're going up.
Matt: It's not impressive. That's mythic.
Wil: Statistically unlikely.
Will: That's the thing. You're beating math.
Wil: I've been beating math for 20 years. I'm very good.
Matt: Yeah. You're the singularity that ruins the universe.
Wil: Somewhere in the world there's a person who never rolls under 17. And I was placed on this planet to balance the math to save you all. To prevent the center of the planet from collapsing and taking us all with it. You're welcome.
Liam: She's in New Zealand. The other side of the Earth.
Matt: All right. So, as you're all taking this moment to yourself. It's hard to read. It seems like he's very thorough and offended by this circumstance. You glean that there is a nervousness, and there are droplets of sweat across his brow. And his brusqeness does show a bit of fear in his eyes.
Marisha: About this time, I go (fwoosh) and I cast my wind spell. And I slam the doors behind us. And I slam the shutters. And turn out all the lights. Did you say there was candlelight? Or did you say there was weird indirect lighting.
Matt: Yeah, indirect lighting. You don't quite know where the source is coming from. The door was already closed behind you. Hosin closed it. But as the wind comes out, all the silks blow against the wall. Pillows are lobbed to the sides. Both of the women in there (yelps) and pull back against walls, trying to keep out of the circumstance. And you can see Vince has begun to stand up and his hair blown back. "What is the meaning of this?"
Marisha: Now. I'm sorry. I didn't mean to do that. I sometimes get a little out of control. But remain calm! All right?! Jesus! Remain calm!
Orion: You calm down.
Marisha: I'm sorry! I'm trying to remain calm, too!
Will: Doing a great job.
Marisha: Thank you! Okay.
Matt: Persuasion check.
Marisha: Damn it.
Liam: Who's in this room? It's the women--
Matt: It's the women and Vince. Hosin closed the door and left in the hallway.
Liam: Vince is the--
Matt: Owner.
Liam: But is he human?
Matt: He's human.
Orion: I'm going to approach him and I'm going to cast Mage Hand. I'm going to have it float right up in front of me. I'm like, now, you better start cooperating, because it seems to me that you're getting very nervous. And we don't want to do anything. Nor do we want to leave. All we want is information. I guess we want to know what you want to know, too. We want a lot of information. So start talking and stop acting like a fool.
Matt: Make an intimidation check.
Liam: He's sometimes hard to follow, but you don't want to fuck with him.
Orion: 15.
Matt: 15? As you do this, between you standing, he's in the process of standing up, and he was reaching for something under one of the cushions. As you do that, he glances about the room, looks over to you specifically, and back to the dragonborn, the dwarf.
Marisha: And I say, and whatever weapon you were about to brandish, you'd best wise to leave it be.
Matt: "You realize, you may have just alerted pretty much the entirety of my guard to this establishment. They'll be descending on this room soon."
Marisha: And you realize that this is only because of your doing?
Matt: He sits down on the cushion again.
Wil: And Thorbir looks at him and goes, okay. And pulls his greataxe out and leans on his greataxe.
Orion: I disperse the magic hand.
Marisha: I say, now. Our quarrel is not with you. We are not with the guard. We are not with the Bastions.
Orion: More calm.
Will: Yes, still doing a great job with the calm, there.
Marisha: I'm trying. I'm sorry. I get emotional. I'm trying to remain calm, here. Okay?
Matt: "What do you wish to know?"
Will: Once again, do you still have Lord Tyrell's possessions?
Matt: "His possessions are not under my keeping, no."
Orion: There we go. Thank you. Where are they?
Matt: "I have no idea."
Will: I want to do a perception check.
Matt: This would be insight, yeah.
Will: Insight check. Nice, where are we? Ooh, wow. 26.
Matt: 26.
Wil: What's that like?
Will: That's 29 of your rolls, strangely enough. (laughter)
Matt: Looking at you tense. He's fumbling lie after lie right now.
Will: It's just, you could easily tell.
Matt: Yeah. For you especially, all the signs are there, the quivering to his voice, his eyes darting from person to person. He's still covering.
Will: Okay, you're sitting in a room now with a whole bunch of people that want to hurt you. So it's obvious that you're lying. What do you know, or this guy and this guy are going to dragon and axe you.
Matt: "Look, what happened was unfortunate. There are things beyond your understanding or control involved here."
Wil: Oh, I don't know, we can understand a lot.
Orion: We fought a beholder before.
Marisha: Do not take us for fools who just walked in here without a clue.
Liam: I walk forward, I pull out Dagger of Venom and I drop a little bead of black down the blade and I hold it just about a centimeter under his neck. I've all run out of patience, friend. We're here to help this city and you're going to help us. Talk.
Matt: Make an intimidation check with advantage because of this whole setup here.
Marisha: Dear god, so many. Come on.
Liam: 20.
Matt: "They'll kill me if I say anything."
Will: We're going to kill you now.
Liam: Now or later, friend.
Orion: And we could protect you from them. Or it.
Matt: "This establishment. I am not the owner. I am a figurehead. Something else currently pulls the strings from behind."
Marisha: Something else?
Orion: As we said, it.
Matt: And he looks off, past you, just over your shoulder.
Liam: Perception check.
Marisha: Oh, son of a bitch.
Liam: 23.
Matt: You glance over your shoulder briefly and at this point you can see the door is partially ajar, and you can see in what little light there is a dwarven face staring through the passage that then slams the door shut quickly and you hear footsteps.
Marisha: Was that Hosin?
Will: Was that Hosin?
Matt: That was Hosin, yeah.
Marisha: Fucking Hosin.
Will: Thanks a lot, hoser!
Matt: He's shaking his head now, the blade there, as you hear the feet running off now.
Marisha: I'm going-- something tiny and fast. What's tiny and fast?
Liam: Mouse, rat.
Marisha: I'm going rat, and I'm going after Hosin.
Matt: All right. You guys watch as Keyleth all of a sudden grasps the side of her armor and then her form shrinks down to a tiny rat, then darts underneath.
Liam: I'm going to bap this guy in the head. I'm going to just flip the blade and strike him across the forehead.
Orion: As I see her do this, I open the scroll of Polymorph. I do Polymorph on myself, and I turn myself into a gadfly. And follow.
Matt: Okay. The scroll is consumed and gone. You turn into a fly and follow, as well. Two of your party members just shrunk and vanished and went off as creatures. You, go ahead and roll for an attack.
Liam: Okay, so on a surprise, it's advantage. So 19's pretty good. I'll take the 19 over the two. So that's 19 plus-- 30.
Matt: That hits, go ahead and roll sneak attack damage on that.
Liam: Okay, sneak attack damage. Is this a surprise because he didn't know it was coming?
Matt: Yes, it is.
Liam: It is? So because of my assassinate feat, then this is a critical hit. So just the sneak attack damage? Okay, four, eight, ten, 12, 15, 21, 42.
Matt: With 42? Yeah, you (whack). He's out like a light. Lights off, face on a pillow. The two women squeal in reaction. You guys, as you rush under the door, what are you guys doing?
Wil: I've been leaning over to see what he was reaching for.
Matt: As you glance over you can see what appears to be a small jeweled blade that is hidden underneath one of the cushions there. It's a curved dagger that comes to a gradual point.
Wil: I'm going to take that.
Matt: Okay. So mark down jeweled dagger in your equipment.
Will: I want to search him. I want to see if he has anything on him, in his pockets, anything.
Matt: Okay. As you are beginning to go through his body, you guys have rushed beneath, and as you can see, the dwarf, Hosin, is walking down the hallway really quickly with his robes open.
Orion: As a gadfly, can I really quickly buzz in front of him?
Matt: You pull underneath, because you had to go underneath the door to make it into the hallway. You see him, he's about 15 feet away, and as he's walking, he's looking about very nervously. He's seen one of the guards is approaching, and he looks back over and sees the rat scurrying down the hallway.
Orion: How far away is he from me?
Matt: He's about 20 feet.
Orion: How far away is the guard in front of him?
Matt: You know what, let me go ahead and pull this up. It'll give a good indicator of the circumstance here.
Marisha: He does what?
Orion: Oh god, we have a map.
Liam: Gentlemen, we need to move.
Orion: Okay, so he's right there.
Liam: Mama Cass, what have you found?
Matt: All right, you guys are currently inspecting him at the moment, as you guys are rushing through.
Orion: Oh! So I'm within 20 feet of him, whatever?
Matt: Actually no, he'd be back here. He's just rushing past. So he's 20 to 25 feet from you.
Orion: Okay. Ah. I'm going to dispel Polymorph, and I'm going to cast Silence in front of him. I'm going to silence him.
Matt: Okay. All right, so you're using him as the source?
Orion: Yes.
Matt: Okay. So as you un-Polymorph, he looks over his shoulder and sees you take this form, you go ahead and cast Silence, which has an opposition. What level spell is that? 2nd-level?
Orion: Yes. I believe so.
Matt: Okay, cool. So that creates a sphere of a 20-foot radius of silence here. So he goes and he does like a hand motion. Nothing happens. Frustrated, he continues to run. I'm going to have you guys roll initiative.
Marisha: Fucking shit. 17.
Matt: 17?
Orion: Sorry. What is that? 17.
Matt: 17 and 17. All right. So you guys will both be going first, but before we finish that, as you guys are searching the body you hear all of a sudden the sound of some sort of scuffle, a flash of some sort of energy in the hallway that's muffled between the doorway, and footsteps also happening. As you're just starting to get through his pockets you start hearing some sort of a scuffle outside of the room.
Wil: I'm gone.
Will: Me, too.
Matt: So I'll have you guys roll initiative, as well.
Wil: Four.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Not great. Nine.
Will: 11.
Wil: There's 20 faces on this. So. I mean, look right? It can happen. I know that it's possible. I've done it in my life.
Matt: All right, so as you guys are turning, we'll get to your turn in a moment. Tiberius and Keyleth, you're up first.
Marisha: Are we at the same time? I guess I'll go ahead and cast out of my beast shape as well and cast Hold Person on him as he's running away.
Matt: Okay. Cool. Just staying where you are? Are you going to stay there or are you going to move?
Marisha: Well, he's right there, right?
Matt: Right there, yeah.
Marisha: So I'm just going to try and hold him.
Matt: Okay, so you go ahead and cast Hold Person. As the spell releases, you can see the mystical shimmering cage that seems to encapsulate, seems to shrug it off.
Marisha: Because he's not a person! He's not a person. I should've fucking done Grasping Vine. Goddamn it. All right.
Matt: Do you want to move or are you staying where you are?
Marisha: Yeah, I'll follow after his ass.
Matt: All right, you can get up to pretty much right adjacent to him if you want. All right. Tiberius?
Orion: I'm going to cast Telekinesis and grab him that way.
Matt: Okay. So from where you are you go ahead and you create your telekinetic force, you rush out, and the telekinetic force seems to have no effect on the dwarf's form.
Orion: It's the rakshasa! That's him!
Matt: Do you move?
Orion: No. I yell at you, don't chase him!
Marisha: And I go, what?
Matt: Which you don't hear, because she goes [no audio].
Marisha: Yeah, I'm in the silent bubble.
Matt: Yeah, there is currently no sound coming from the center of that area.
Orion: But she can hear me.
Matt: She can hear you.
Orion: And I'm not that far. You heard me, the other way! The other way! And I move in the room with these guys.
Matt: Okay. As you guys turn, you see Tiberius come rushing into the room.
Orion: The rakshasa! Nothing works on him! And I think that's not normal!
Liam: You're speaking Draconian!
Orion: Yes, sorry! Rakshasa. I believe the dwarf is the rakshasa. I cast many things, and Keyleth is in there, nothing hit him.
Liam: You left her with him? I shove past him and go straight through the door.
Wil: You ran away from the target? Ugh. I stomp past him in my dwarfy stomps.
Matt: Hosin gets just out of the sphere of silence and then angrily does a motion with a hand and then-- (shouting)
Marisha: I knew it was going to happen!
Matt: That'll bring us next to Brother Kash. Kashaw. What do you want to do?
Will: I want to go back eight moves and catch the thing. I think what we're going to have to do now is find out where he is. Let's Locate Creature again, if we can.
Matt: Okay, this is during your turn. Is there anything you want to do?
Will: Can we locate creature, see how close he is?
Matt: How long does it take to cast Locate Creature?
Will: I believe it is one action.
Matt: Okay, so you can do that, so you mark that off as another casting of that spell.
Will: Okay.
Matt: As you rush out into the hallway and see that it's vanishing, you cast the spell for a second, you can see the direction of the creature is roughly ahead of you and you also see a door on the opposite side, this right-hand door open and close.
Marisha: He goes invisible? He's not teleporting, he's just invisible. That's a big thing.
Will: Yeah, he's here. He's still here. We can't see him.
Matt: You still have 15 feet of movement, if you want to move forward.
Will: Yeah, I would like to move forward.
Matt: Okay. So you'll get up to that point with your turn. And you gather that that's the direction of him, and that you know that's where it's going.
Will: I know where it's going, okay. So we saw the door shut. That's where he is, let's go.
Liam: Don't run blindly in there, hold on.
Matt: Vax, you're up.
Liam: I'm going to run just up past Keyleth, I'm going to look at her as I pass. Not bad. Keep going, stop there, and now I'm going to try to sense traps.
Matt: At this point, there? Okay, so you can get up to here if you're going to use an action as well to dash.
Liam: If I use, that's fine, yeah.
Matt: Okay, as you go to talk to her no words come out.
Orion: Can I see what's going on?
Matt: No, you're in the other room, still. Everyone darted out and you're making your way out. So go ahead and make a perception check.
Liam: Okay. 21.
Matt: 21. Glancing about the room, there doesn't appear to be anything that catches you as a trap. This hallway is fairly often-traversed by the clientele of this establishment, and nothing seems dangerous. That would be difficult to put in the middle of a place and still run a business.
Liam: Okay. I look at Kash and Keyleth and say-- Are we out of initiative? We're still in initiative.
Matt: We're still in initiative. Currently, for the moment, just for the sake of the pacing on this.
Wil: I'm going as far as I can down the hall toward the direction of the bad guy.
Matt: Okay. That gets you to about there. Cool, that ends that turn, at which point three of the bouncers then start pushing through the silks. One of them pushes his way here, this one pushes aside, and they come out, weapons drawn, seeing all of you there, and one of them goes [no audio]. That's their turn, but it looks like they're ready to jump into some sort of combat circumstance. That brings us to the top of the round, Tiberius, you're up.
Orion: Where'd you say the guards came from?
Matt: They came from the main room, where the silks are that separate the hallway from the main area. And you start hearing people shouting and some slight yelps and screams from the other room.People who seem freaked out by the sudden rise in energy.
Orion: What was that guy's name? Lohan?
Wil: Hosin?
Orion: Hosin?
Wil: The dwarf is Hosin. The other guy is Vince.
Orion: I just disperse Silence, and before I go out, I turn into Hosin. Alter Self.
Matt: Okay, so you use your action to cast Alter Self. You take Hosin's form, step out, closing the door behind you.
Orion: How did he sound, again?
Matt: How did he sound?
Orion: I don't remember.
Marisha: He's a dwarf.
Will: He was Scottish, but fancy Scottish.
Liam: He's glam rock. Glam rock.
Orion: Oh, right, right. What's all this noise out here? What are you bothering my friends for? Guards!
Matt: The guards look over confused and, "We heard there was a--"
Orion: Everything's fine. These are friends. Get on with your business. Get back on patrol. Make sure nothing happens or I'll have your heads.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Marisha: Oh, come on, Tiberius.
Orion: 28.
Matt: The guards look at each other. "All right, but if anything happens again, there's a problem, let us know. We'll be at the ready." They sheathe their weapons and look untrustingly to the rest of your group with your weapons currently drawn and step back--
Orion: Go on, get out.
Matt: They disappear back into the main room and they start calming down some of the other patrons who are starting to peek around them, trying to see what's going on, the action. Some look smiling and curious to see what's happening, and they're, "Go back to your tables. It's fine; there's no problem." And they disperse the energy.
Liam: Not bad, Tiberius.
Marisha: With that, I continue with the charade and loop my arm around Vax and say, shall we go into that room?
Liam: Just a moment, dear. Pull out the same poisoned blade and start walking down that hall a little further, and I want to see if I sense any traps further ahead.
Matt: Okay, to about there? Make a perception check.
Liam: Natural 20.
Wil: And balance was restored to the universe. Oh god, don't do that! Come on!
Matt: Put it away. Watch as the dice just like turns to dust.
Wil: It's the end of Raiders.
Matt: Exactly. You glance about the room as you're walking forward carefully, looking at the floorboards, looking at the tapestries on the walls, looking for anything that would be out of sorts, and your eyes very keen to find anything out of the ordinary. The room thankfully does not appear to have anything specifically trapped. It seems fairly safe.
Liam: Oh. Okay. And those are doors up there?
Matt: Yeah. Door to the right, door to the left.
Liam: Would that check include the doors themselves?
Matt: I would say with a natural 20, yes. The doors both also seem to be functional doors, not designed with any sort of trap attached.
Liam: All right. Pressing my ear to the door on my left.
Matt: Okay. Listen to it. Perception roll.
Liam: So many. Six.
Matt: Seems fairly quiet.
Orion: If we've stopped pursuing, does that take us out of initiative?
Matt: You guys are not, you guys are not currently in initiative because you're not in the thick of battle. You managed to disperse the conflict.
Liam: I want to do it at the other door as well.
Matt: All right, you step to the other door. You guys want to do anything else while you're waiting on him?
Wil: I'm just going to come, I want to get as close to him as I can and I'm ready for a fight.
Marisha: Yeah, I follow.
Orion: Thorbir. Do you have an extra sword or arm on you? Perhaps a shortsword?
Wil: I give him the jeweled dagger.
Liam: That one's a 19.
Matt: 19? Listening, you hear what sounds like a slight (creak) sound, some sort of a scooting of wood on wood, and then silence.
Liam: Kick in the door. Hard as I can.
Matt: Okay. Make a strength roll. This would be straight strength.
Liam: Wait, that's the wrong guy. 12. 14.
Orion: As he's doing that, I'm going to drink a potion of frost giant strength.
Matt: Okay. You slam your foot into the door. Oh, that was the foot that you just got healed. Oh, that's going to bruise. That's really going to bruise.
Liam: Keyleth-- Coralin, darling, could you come up here please?
Marisha: Yes? Did you stub your toe, darling?
Liam: Yeah. I think I want to get this door open quickly, please.
Wil: I'm going to hit the door with my axe.
Matt: Okay. Go for it and roll. What did you roll?
Liam: A one!
Marisha: No way! It's a lie. If it wasn't live, no one would believe it.
Wil: I rolled a one. Because it is what I do.
Matt: I'm going to test this theory. I'm going to trade you, for now, and I'm going to leave you with that dice and see if it has any impact whatsoever.
Liam: You have to throw it into the fire, Mr. Frodo!
Wil: The curse doesn't care about which die is rolled.
Matt: Which is very possible, but there needs to be--
Liam: This is like science class.
Marisha: Maybe it's because that dice was in the vicinity of Matt's hair, you'll be good.
Matt: All right.
Wil: So how much damage do I take for some reason?
Matt: So as you pull back the axe, you actually swing wildly backward, nearly hitting Vax in the process. You have to dodge out of the way as the axe embeds itself into the wood behind you.
Wil: Ugh. Again.
Matt: Axe is stuck.
Liam: I slap myself on the forehead and go ugh. Pull out thieves' pick and start on the lock.
Matt: Okay, you unclasp. As you do, you feel your throat seize suddenly as the cold liquid tends to freeze up what is normally a very warm and very fire-breeding interior to your throat. And it thaws slowly, and as you exhale you can see the mist, and suddenly your muscles pulse with energy and you feel like your physical form is embodied strength far more than you've ever felt in your body before.
Orion: With his jeweled dagger, I take out my dagger. I feel great.
Liam: The freshmaker.
Matt: There's now the angriest dwarf right now clutching two daggers as you get down with your thieves' tools.
Liam: Yeah, let's try to leave the room. That's better. That's a 24.
Matt: All right. The door swings open without issue. It's one of the easier jobs you've had.
Liam: I should've done that in the first place.
Marisha: Yeah! Should've beat it down and then.
Matt: You push open the door and find your way into what looks like a very well-adorned bedroom. There is a small table on the side where there are some books stacked up. There's a dresser on the far end that's closed. There is a canopy bed set up. There is a small end-table on the side. And the rest of the room has a nice circular rug that's thrown across the center, and there are no windows currently to this room.
Liam: I turn my head to everyone and just mouth the words-- and perception check the room.
Marisha: Can I perception check, as well?
Liam: 24.
Marisha: Can I just look to see, I want to just meditate and-- what did you just roll? 24?
Liam: 24.
Marisha: I want to see if I see any movements or brushes of cloth or anything like that.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: 19. Not as good as Vax.
Matt: All right.
Wil: How long does it take me to pull the axe out of the wall, and how far into Yakety Sax does the soundtrack get while I'm up there and with the foot and then I'm jumping on it and trying to pull it down.
Matt: We're currently hitting the one minute 15 second mark. Haven't quite pulled it out of the wood yet.
Wil: Okay, good. And my little legs are kicking underneath me while I pull it down, cursing in Dwarven.
Liam: They call me Benny. Benny Hill.
Matt: Do you wish to enter the room?
Will: I don't, actually. Because of all the sound, I wish to turn my back to the room and guard the hallway while everybody else is inside checking out the room.
Matt: Okay, you're keeping an eye out, and you do see that there's one of the guards just to the side who's just keeping an eye looking over carefully. You guys make a perception check, looking around the room, you see there is no movement, there are no curtains on the walls. There is the rug, and most everything else in here seems to be perfectly still. You catch what looks like a little bit of movement of the canopy bed, the material that's on top. There's a slight sway to it that comes to stillness you just barely catch with your keen half-elven eye.
Liam: I would like to run up the bed and stab up. Both hands. Clicking the Boots of Haste.
Matt: Okay. (bam) Click the Boots of Haste, you run and charge up into the bed and stab upward into the canopy. The material is torn asunder, this very fine, probably imported silk is carved into three separate ribbons and falls gently onto the cushion of the bed proper, revealing the hardwood ceiling above you.
Liam: I'm going to check the ceiling. There's a lot of perception. I'm all out of Luck. That's no good. That's a 14.
Matt: 14, looking about, it's solid wood, you can move your fingers along and you're standing on the bed, you can just get it within reach, and feeling along the board, it's all pretty solid.
Marisha: I want to make myself soccer field goalie this stuff with the door, in the door frame, just really trying to see if I can see any brush of dust or movement.
Matt: Okay. Keeping an eye out. You pull your axe free. Into the hallway door in front of you. Not a lot of strength. You pull it out and try the best you can to save some grace.
Will: Well done. Yeah, that was graceful.
Liam: I motion Tiberius over.
Orion: Should I do a perception on that? Nope.
Matt: That ceiling looks pretty solid.
Will: Can I turn, saving my back to the door, I turn over. I do a perception check.
Matt: Go for it. You step over, you glance past Keyleth.
Will: Oh my god, one.
Wil: Stop trying to steal my thing, you guys.
Matt: You glance over and you're more distracted by the fact that Keyleth is doing this awkward field goal thing in the door to you for no reason, and you forget what you were in the middle of doing.
Marisha: I'm trying to make myself big.
Matt: There appears to be no exit from the ceiling.
Wil: Can I enter the room?
Matt: You may. You push past the confused cleric.
Wil: Okay, so I look around. I look at the rug. I sigh heavily. And I pull the rug.
Matt: You pull the rug, revealing a wooden floor. Plain slats.
Marisha: You thought that was going to be good!
Will: With a point, too!
Matt: You were never a fan of elves or half-elves before, but this one's really starting to dig into you a little.
Wil: I'll make a perception check because we could total up all my rolls and I'd have five.
Liam: Come on. Hey!
Wil: Look at that. That's actually better. 20.
Matt: 20. You pull the rug back. There's nothing there, and you look about at the rest of the folks with a heavy sigh. But the rug was on the right track. Everyone was keeping high. Looking beneath the bed, you can see what looks to be, in the shadow, some little bit of elevated wood that catches your attention.
Wil: I just, under the bed!
Orion: Oh! I'll motion over there.
Liam: We're not silenced, right? So I'm yanking off any fancy clothes I have on and I'm pulling my Cloak of Elvenkind out. I'm putting it over. And I spider under the bed and check it for traps.
Marisha: I pick up his clothes and I put them in the Bag of Holding.
Will: Oh my god, she's folding the clothes. We're in the middle of this, and she's folding the clothes.
Marisha: They might come in handy later.
Liam: 25 for looking for traps.
Matt: Okay. Well, it's a good thing you rolled high enough perception, because as you spider underneath, your first hand goes underneath and you nearly tumble and you catch yourself. There is a five-foot-wide hole in the ground right beneath this bed. And as you catch yourself, you can feel a little bit of wind slowly drifting up from underneath. There's some sort of airflow coming up from underneath this bed where this hole is, and you feel over and you can see that little bit of wood that you saw looking forward is the top of a makeshift ladder that is currently fastened to the side of this tunnel that disappears beneath the room.
Liam: Is there dim light down there?
Matt: It is pitch black. You can see with the dim light from your low-light vision a little ways into it, about 20 or so feet from the angle you're at, because you're not looking directly in. And even just glancing over the side it continues down for quite a while.
Will: And it's big enough to fit all of us if we wanted to go.
Matt: Independently, yes. One person would go down. It would be single file, of course, because it's a tight tunnel.
Will: Only one way to go, right?
Liam: You can see in pitch black, right?
Wil: I have darkvision, 60 feet.
Liam: Is that dim or dark?
Wil: Dark.
Matt: Darkvision, you can see within a short distance of pitch black and then a larger distance at low light, so yeah.
Wil: I'll go.
Matt: All right. So we'll put in order here, who's going down next? All right. And after Vax?
Marisha: I'll follow my husband.
Matt: Keyleth. That's weird. Tiberius?
Orion: Before we go down, I'm going to take off my outer-- no, I can't take off anything because that's all my gear. Never mind. I don't do that, but before we go down I cast Stoneskin on myself. I cast that right now.
Matt: Okay. As your form shimmers for a second and you see-- you notice this too, Kashaw-- his scales almost seem to protrude into earthy spikes and then form and solidify, almost like his body becomes its own suit of armor.
Will: Okay, that's cool.
Orion: Even though I'm still a dwarf, though.
Will: I'm going to go, but I'm going to cast Freedom of Movement on myself before I go down there.
Matt: Okay. As you do, even with the encumbrance of the armor you're wearing, you feel like your form is a little more agile and you're ready for anything that might try and stop your passage. You guys begin making your way down, with Thorbir leading the way. You descend for a good three to four minutes, you gather probably a hundred feet or more down, rung by rung, and there are a few that you reach that are a little rickety. About a hundred feet down, one hits your foot and snaps, but you manage to catch yourself on it, but you get the feeling this ladder is probably not meant to hold someone of your heavy physical form.
Wil: Largesse?
Matt: Largesse, you could use, yes. One by one, you make your way down until eventually you're, you begin to see towards the edge of your darkvision, floor finally begins to appear and rise towards you. You step off the ladder into what appears to be a small circular area that leads into another ten-foot-by-ten-foot tunnel, ten by 15 foot up, and continues forward. This is very natural carved earth, it's not smoothed stone, it just looks like a tunnel that was mined out of the floor.
Will: Is it still dark?
Matt: It is still dark, there is no light source currently. And you all eventually make your way down.
Will: Is there anything loose down there that I can grab a hold of?
Matt: You can't see anything. Mr. Human, you are in pitch-black darkness.
Will: Well, that's why I'm wondering if I feel around underneath me to try to find some kind-- do I find a loose stone? Do I find a pebble? Can I find anything to grab?
Matt: Reach down, yeah, you manage to find a couple of small stones.
Orion: As he's milling about, Light.
Will: That's what I was going to do, but he beat me to it. Thank you.
Matt: So you reach down and you find a stone, you pick it up, you begrudgingly grab your holy symbol, and as you begin to recite your cantrip incantation, a flash of white light comes gleaming off the top of the dragonborn sorcerer's staff.
Orion: Dagger. Because I have two daggers in my hands.
Matt: That's true. One of the daggers is now glowing. The jeweled one, twice as pretty when it's emanating torchlight.
Will: Nice. Thanks for the warning, by the way.
Orion: Sorry, I usually just do it when it's dark.
Wil: This tunnel goes in just one direction?
Matt: One direction.
Wil: I'm walking down the tunnel.
Matt: Okay. So we'll say for the sake of marching order, who all is going in after Thorbir? In what order?
Will: I'll go next.
Matt: All right. Following Thorbir.
Liam: I'll go behind Kash.
Will: I don't need this at all, but I just wanted to play with it. That's me right there.
Orion: I'll follow. I'll keep on Thorbir's six.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: I'll stay 15 feet behind him.
Matt: 15 feet behind? All right. And Keyleth, you continue up that way. All right, so that'll be the marching order.
Wil: So I've got my axe out. And may I make a perception check to see what I see? To just see if I can pick up footprints or motion or whatever?
Matt: This would be more tracking, if you're looking for footprints, so that'd be wisdom.
Wil: Okay. Just a straight wisdom?
Matt: Survival.
Wil: Survival, hang on. Not my system. Eight.
Matt: Eight? Okay. It's hard to tell. It looks like this area is not heavily traversed, and what little sign of footprints there are scattered enough that it's hard to make out a specific print. But I mean, they have been traveled before.
Liam: I'm looking over Thorbir's head and looking for traps as he walks from behind. 22.
Matt: 22? All right. As you guys are walking forward and going through this, you get about 40 feet forward before you catch that there is a slight divot, a small drop in the dirt, and one looks like a section of intentionally placed plate of some kind.
Liam: Wait a tick. I'm going to go up to the edge of it and try to inspect it and see if I can find a trigger or see how it works. Six. And that is, what is that, perception?
Matt: Are you checking to see how it works?
Liam: I want to see if I can disarm.
Matt: To disarm it. Okay, that would be with your thieves' tools. So this would be a dexterity plus your thieves' tools, so plus seven.
Liam: That's a 19.
Matt: 19? Okay. As you go to the plate, you stop and look up at the walls to the side, and to each side of the wall you can see these tiny little holes, these little quarter-sized, gold-piece-sized tunnels bored multiple places on both sides of this wall. And you take the plate, you realize this is a pressure plate-based trap, and taking one dagger, you slightly lift it. The second one, you eventually find beneath where the trigger apparatus is, and you gingerly cut each part of these spring-loaded triggers until eventually the plate rises more and more and more and you remove the last bit, the plate tips over, and the trap itself is disarmed.
Will: Nice work.
Orion: I mean, well done, rogue.
Wil: So I keep going down. I want to hit a thing.
Matt: All righty.
Wil: That's not a wall.
Matt: There is that. All right. Pushing forward, continuing for another 30-40 feet, do you want to check traps again?
Liam: Again. 12.
Matt: 12? Okay. Pushing forward for a period of time, there doesn't appear to be any change. There are no more divots. You're keeping a very close eye for the traps. And as you're walking forward with your axe. As you're stepping forward you get this weird tickle across your nose, like a spider web of some kind that catches you, and you instinctively reach up and brush it away from your nose. As your finger presses against it, it's much sturdier than a spider web. It's a metallic wire, and as you push away (tink). You hear that slight noise. Tiberius, behind you, you hear a grinding of stone, and a loud slam sounds, like something extremely heavy just dropped behind you.
Marisha: Run!
Matt: You guys glance over your shoulder and you see what looks to be a fairly rounded boulder--
Orion: I dispel Alter Self immediately so I have longer-ass legs.
Matt: Well, Alter Self is gone if you're casting Stoneskin, because that's a concentration spell. Oh, that. But that only carries it for a few rounds. It's been a longer time than that.
Orion: It's been 15 minutes. Time has passed. Never mind. I don't do shit.
Matt: But yeah, don't worry about that. But the stone boulder just--
Marisha: Indiana Jones, motherfuckers!
Matt: Picking up speed with the slow decline of this room. All of you guys, what are you doing?
All: Run!
Matt: You're bolting forward.
Orion: I cast Fly on myself and fly.
Matt: You cast Fly, pushing forward, and you guys get a little speed, but you've noticed the boulder's started to gather steam as it continues down, and the pathway you guys are running is going at a heavier and heavier decline as you push forward.
Orion: Oh! As I'm flying, I turn around with my ring and I cast Slow on the boulder.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a-- actually, no. This is interesting. Let me see if Slow would have a direct effect on this boulder. That's something that happens right now that I didn't consider. I love when that happens. Unfortunately, it is not a creature and actually it affects the physical metabolism and muscle use of an individual. This is just a solid structured object. As you release the spell, you see the air around it poof, and drift a little slower, and the boulder seems to stutter for a moment, but continues to push forward. That was your action.
Orion: Damn it.
Liam: I would like to cast all of my spells in succession for the next ten minutes.
Matt: I assume you're going full sprint? Okay, so pushing forward, you all push forward, Tiberius who has stopped to turn around and cast the spell is not at a full dash, so he trails behind. The boulder is currently gaining on Tiberius.
Orion: I Gandalf it.
Matt: So you turn around. You're continuing to fly forward. So you guys just turn to push forward. Tiberius, the boulder is nearly upon you now. What are you going to do?
Orion: Oh! Awesome. Is it at least ten to 15 feet away from me?
Matt: It is about ten to five feet away from you, you can see it cresting--
Orion: Sweet. As I'm now frustrated, I cast a 5th-level spell, and I will cast my Obelisk of Iron, three in a row behind me.
Matt: Okay. All right. You burned that spell. All of a sudden, the room behind you, out of the stone, pockets of iron ore or whatever material is beneath the earth behind you is brought together into a liquid mass and then shoots up in the center of the hallway behind you. With each one of these pillars slamming into the wall, you guys hear these three multiple explosions behind you, and for a brief second you fear the worst for Tiberius' current status. Immediately following that, you hear the impact of stone against iron, and you see the obelisks bend with this horrible creaking sound.
Marisha: Keep running!
Orion: That should stop it right there.
Marisha: I don't know.
Matt: The sound of the rolling has stopped.
Marisha: I still don't trust it. Let's just all get out of this hole.
Orion: I keep Gandalfing.
Marisha: It could give way at any moment.
Liam: Let's walk. Shall we walk? I think we should walk.
Wil: I like to walk.
Matt: Okay. You guys continue moving forward, the decline getting a little more difficult to traverse as your feel yourselves now having to feel your arms across the wall or use it for balance to make sure you don't just fall. Also, the moisture in the air begins to grow more and more thick. Some source of liquid some point down in the future has permeated what was originally dusty, dry air with liquid of some kind, and the air itself grows more and more rancid in scent. It smells like refuse or rot. It's hard to describe, and it's old. It's musky, it's terrible, and it grows stronger the farther you go. As you continue pushing forward, you also feel that the dusty ground is becoming more and more mud-like.
Wil: Is it making my hair poof out and look stupid?
Matt: A little bit, yeah. You spent all morning treating it and it's undoing everything you did.
Wil: This is why I lived in the mountains.
Will: Is there any light? Any light source? There's no natural light? We're not walking towards any type of light?
Matt: It's just a tunnel into darkness right now.
Marisha: Does there appear to be any type of plant life?
Matt: From what you can tell, there is no plant life at all whatsoever. The moisture gathered on the walls you can now see are dripping. The condensation has given this tunnel more of a mineral-pocketed look, and the ground is getting more sludgy with each step.
Wil: I want to make a-- I'm sorry, you're not done.
Marisha: I was just going to ask  are the walls stone or chiseled-out rock?
Matt: It feels like it's chiseled-out, hard earth that has been packed and supported with either small wooden things that are inset to make sure it doesn't collapse at some point, a lot of that has either fallen through.
Will: So it could collapse at any time.
Matt: Well, if you do any severe damage to its structure. It would probably be a bad idea.
Marisha: Right, like drop a boulder down it.
Matt: It's not a mine shaft.
Marisha: What were you going to say?
Wil: I would like to make a-- you tell me what check it is. What I want to do is to look down into this thick mud stuff. What I'm looking for are tracks, and if I do well enough, I want to see if I can get a sense of how fast the thing was going. Has it slowed down because it's comfortable, or is it still running?
Matt: Okay, make another survival check.
Wil: So I'm underground.
Matt: Actually, as a dwarf I'll give you advantage on that, so roll again. That makes sense, this is your place.
Liam: Well, the higher one was four. The lower one was a one.
Will: The higher one was a four?
Wil: Remember what I told you about the Wheaton dice curse? I'm sorry. Because no one will believe me. No one ever believes me.
Marisha: He's been taking pictures of all his fails so everyone believes it.
Will: At this point, I'd be amazed that he hasn't helped us in any way, shape, or form, and cast a perception check of my own.
Matt: Sure.
Will: There we go. So let's see, we are at 21.
Matt: 21, okay.
Will: You are useless. For the love of god.
Matt: As a pre-existing member of the Slayer's Take and the man who was currently set to be the leader of your group, you're beginning to wonder if this guild is the kind of thing you really want to be joining, at this point.
Wil: I haven't been in a fight yet.
Matt: True. But looking down you can see there are no tracks, actually. This line has not been traversed in quite some time, and the smoothness of it says that whatever came through here did not leave any footprints.
Will: At all?
Matt: No. Also, as you guys continue, you reach a point where, especially with your heavy armor-- go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Marisha: Oh no.
Liam: You got this.
Will: Ten. So wait. 13.
Matt: 13? Okay. You're stepping forward, keeping an eye out, and you look back at the group and take a step and your foot slips out from under you. (smack) You hit the slime and begin to slide down the tunnel as part of the decline. You guys watch as your cleric Goonies-style slide vanishes into the darkness.
Will: It's our time. It's our time down here.
Wil: Hey, you guys!
Matt: Kashaw has vanished into the darkness and you hear, (screams).
Will: (screams)
Orion: As I see this happening, I run over and go like, this looks like a lot of fun!
Matt: As you lunge through the air, because you're flying, still.
Orion: Oh. Has ten minutes passed? I thought ten minutes? It only lasts for like ten minutes.
Matt: Oh, then yeah, it's faded. So you just slide after?
Orion: Yeah, I go, this looks like a lot of fun. And I go and I slide.
Matt: Tiberius slides after, body first across the slime.
Marisha: And then I see Tiberius go and I go, (whoops). And I go, too.
Matt: All right. Three of your party have just vanished into the darkness, hoping that fate will take them to some place of pillows and feathers.
Liam: I think I'd rather walk as long as I can.
Wil: I think I'm with you.
Matt: All right. You guys both make dexterity saving throws.
Wil: 16.
Liam: 16.
Matt: Wow. You manage to slowly make your way down this tunnel, almost-- what's that?
Orion: My dex was 18, by the way.
Matt: It doesn't matter; you jumped into this. You intentionally fell.
Liam: We can't even hear you anymore. You're miles away.
Matt: Yeah. You guys slowly begin to make your way down the tunnel, as you can't even hear them anymore. You guys, one after another, sliding down the slide and grime going past you. You smell in the air what smells like vegetable matter that's been long, long falling in compost, along with what smells like rancid feces mixed with mold. It's this terrible continuously growing scent.
Orion: I put up my nose scales.
Matt: Until eventually, out of the darkness, because you're ahead of everyone, you're outside of the range of his Light spell, the slime stops and there's just air.
Liam: Hey, you guys!
Matt: And a few moments of this air rushing past you as you're immediately stopped with a wet sound as you impact hard into some sort of heavy spongy matter. Thankfully, because it's spongy, you only suffer four points of damage, so you can mark that somewhere on the sheet. Mainly just from the way you landed and your armor sticks into where the plates are and just the impact was bad for your body. But you're now in darkness, looking up, sitting on what feels like you're on some sort of strange compost heap. Looking up, you see in the darkness this small light begin to appear, and you see this dragonborn--
Orion: I'm laughing, by the way.
Will: Can I try to move, since I hear him laughing, can I try to move out of the way?
Matt: You roll out of the way as the two of you scream down. With the light that now shines you can see this is a cylindrical cistern of some kind. It is a tunnel that is very tall, and you both impact into the same heap.
Liam: Shitter's full!
Orion: As we land, I look around. Oh, that was a lot of fun. I cast Prestidigitation three times in a row and clean us all up.
Matt: You try and clean what you can, but you guys are like knee to nearly waist deep as you get up and move around--
Orion: Or at least our faces.
Matt: Your faces are clean.
Will: What a wonderful smell you've discovered.
Matt: And it's a terrible smell. This room is quite honestly a mixture of long-rotting food, of dried vegetation that has been discarded here for whatever reason, a lot of it's hay and thatch that has been just rotting and molding for god knows how many years, and quite honestly, feces from some indeterminate entity.
Marisha: I use my Druidcraft to take out some of my sage and light it and spread some of my sage around.
Orion: You're making it worse. Now it's smoky and smells. Prestidigitate it out of my face.
Matt: As you guys are doing this, you guys are making your way down the tunnel. And you have a ways to catch up to them, you do hear (squeaking). You hear this, and as you look around with the light you can see little bits of movement leaping through this heap.
Liam: Rat horde.
Will: Rats are going to be wonderful.
Matt: Then suddenly, thrusting out of some of this heap, you see a large arm or tendril, brownish-tan in color just slams onto the side of it.
Orion: Oh shit. I go invisible.
Will: You've got to help-- where the hell did he go?
Matt: At which point you now see emerging from it two of these giant tendrils, which at the end are covered in these long, teeth-like spines, grasping the sides of this stone cylinder, pulling itself out of the refuse, shaking as it pulls itself forward. You now see the body that contains it with one third central tendril that rises up, what looks like creepy eyes or nose-holes that are looking around and glancing at both of you, and you see emerging beneath that the body, this large, eight- to ten-foot-thick, wide, covered-in-slime body that is this gargantuan toothy maw that opens up with a tongue that lolls out. And that's where we're going to go ahead and end today's session. We'll pick it up next week right where we left off. You guys slowly making your way down the tunnel. We'll pick up with that next time.
Will: Toothy maw is where we end it!
Matt: Yep. Toothy maw.
Marisha: Tentacley, brown, twitchy eyeball, toothy maw. That's all we know?
Matt: That's all you know. And some sort of strange sound and other small things moving.
Wil: Do you give out prizes for the most ones rolled in a night, because I'm pretty sure I won that.
Matt: I do, and for that prize I give you a fancy yellow d20.
Wil: Oh! Thank you. That's great. Does it have all ones on it?
Matt: Shit. Yeah. How did that happen?
Marisha: Oh, that's been your problem the whole time.
Liam: Congratulations, you've won imploding self-esteem.
Wil: That stacks, right? I already have that. I mean, it would be silly if I couldn't-- is that an ongoing? Because that's a feat I took when I started.
Matt: Yeah, yeah, I tried to tell you not to take that but, you know, character flavor is important.
Wil: Listen, it's a class feature. It's an actor's class feature.
Liam: After enough time, you can suck people into it.
Matt: Well, guys, thank you so much!
Wil: Thanks, Matt. That was amazing.
Matt: That was a fun first round. Got one more session with you guys.
Marisha: Yes, and what did you think of your first game?
Will: It was incredible, nothing should be this fun. Seriously, it was so much fun. Yeah. Awesome.
Matt: Well guys, thank you, I'm so glad you could join us and I'm excited for next week. And thank you guys for tuning in, hope you're enjoying it as much as we are. We can't stay too long, unfortunately, I have a flight to catch very soon to fly out to a convention in Columbus, Ohio. Zac, I think, is around here with whatever we got in business we've got to get down to with all you awesome people. Thank-yous.
Zac: We'll save gifts for next week.
Matt: We'll have to save gifts for next week when we're not quite in such a huge rush, so for those of you who sent stuff, we'll get into those next week. Thank you so much. So for people who donated, by the way, once again donated to 826LA, which is our charity, which is a fantastic charity that takes young children and young adults and teaches them creative writing and writing skills and they do wonderful work. And you guys have been fantastic and donations go to help that charity. Let's see, we got here--
Zac: Start 813.
Matt: 813, all right. Lonsolo, donated $25, thank you so much, Lon. Descendfromgrace donated $25, thank you so much Descend. Gelatinousdude, oh. Makes me happy. Donated $20. Thank you so much, that's amazing. Undim1 donated $31, thank you so much Undim. Wheelyfactoids donated $50. That's amazing, Wheelie. Once again, good to see you. That's amazing that you keep donating, I really appreciate that. Dafeedthedargenzeen--
Zac: There might be more there.
Matt: Dot-dot-dot-dot-dot, take the ellipses, it makes it sound cool. Donated $100, thank you so much, that's an incredible donation. Escherbacon donated $25, thank you so much Escherbacon. Bacon. Moonsol37 donated $20. Thank you, Moonsol. That's incredible. Norkelad donated $75. Thank you, Norkelad. Markinthepark donated $50. Thank you, Mark. That's amazing. Freelander20 donated $15. That's incredible. JDI35 donated $25. You're amazing! Missbeezus donated $25. Missbeezus, that's amazing. Heart goes out to you. Shepardson donated $20. Shepardson, thank you so much, Shepardson. Turdle, 1337turdle, donated $50. It's got leet-speech, threes. Thank you so much. T-threefrulthree. Williantw, t-w, donated $25. Thank you Willian. Salazarjack donated $82.60, keeping with the 826 theme. That's awesome. Clever. Nightraver01 donated $100. Thank you, Nightraver. Keep raving. NZV5005 donated $20. Thank you so much, NZV5005. That's incredible. Okay. Got a flight to catch. Wakedonorpg donated $43.21. Descending numbers, I like it. Thank you so much. Nausicaa451 donated $10. Thank you so much for that. Killerpenguin donated $25. Thank you, Killerpenguin. Damienopyro donated $30. Thank you, Pyro. Bryancantlogintotwitch-- I'm sorry, Bryan, that's pretty rough-- donated $30. That's fantastic. Gatorcane donated $100. Thank you, Gatorcane. It's got a nice texture to that cane. Magnusrogar donated $40. Kill things, Tiberius. Get it done. Foxyforce has donated $60.39. Thank you, Foxy. Atherrex donated $50. Thank you so much, Atherrex. Monos20 donated $20. Thank you so much. UncleAni donated $15. It's appreciated. Gargantran1-- eyes aren't working, but that's your new name-- donated $50. Thank you so much. PFWscott donated $12. Thank you. Jarmund donated $100. That's incredible. Joker396 donated $55.55. Thank you so much for all your donations.
Orion: Yeah, all this and again, thank you for doing this because portions of this goes to an amazing charity and we love all the people at 826.
Marisha: We're going to be doing a video very soon going to 826 and telling you guys all about it. But yes, they're a great charity, so yes.
Matt: Give to them the hefty amount that you guys have contributed over this time towards their charity. It's fascinating.
Will: You guys have incredible fans. This whole week leading up to this on Twitter and everything, you guys have amazing fans.
Marisha: Now you guys get the fanart!
Will: Sorry about what?
Matt: Sorry about the DDOS attack. That's how we say hi.
Will: No, seriously, it's amazing.
Zac: Don't even mention things like that. Don't mention those things.
Wil: It's more of a hug.
Zac: Thank you everybody for helping us get to 6k. They've already started a stupid e-mail chain talking about what musical songs they're going to sing.
Marisha: That's amazing. Oh, and guys, Mary Elizabeth came back to visit and watch. So she did return.
Mary: Hi!
Marisha: She's back!
Mary: And a special guest.
Steve: I'm just going to troll. Hi.
Marisha: Steven Blum, everybody.
Will: Starscream himself is here.
Marisha: Yes, he is.
Matt: Thank you so much for coming to watch, I hope you enjoyed yourselves. Yeah, it's an incredible time, looking forward to the session next week. Are there any other closing comments you guys want to bust out tonight?
Marisha: I don't want to wait a week.
Wil: Really fun and really weird to be on this side of that screen. So odd for me, and just to play a character who's so different from the characters I used to play before I DMed all the time. It's weird to be a guy who just doesn't think about stuff and like is not particularly charismatic and anyway, people who have thought about playing or want to play RPGs, when we were rolling up this guy, I was so excited when I got-- what did I roll for him? Anyway he's got a minus one. I rolled an eight for his charisma, and I was so excited because I was like, well now I know exactly who this guy is. I know exactly who he is and it's going to be really fun to be him. It was really great, it was really fun to come and I found out about your game because Liam directed me in a voice session. I want to be on your show so much.
Matt: Well, now it is done. Dreams do come true. Then we smash them.
Will: Now roll a one and get us out of here.
Wil: I'll try, but since it's not going to count, I don't know.
Liam: It'll be a 20. 19. (laughter)
Matt: Thanks so much. We'll see you next week, 7PM on the Twitch stream. Have a wonderful week.
Marisha: Bye!

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello and good evening, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, a show where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors play D&D, Dungeons & Dragons. Roll dice and kill monsters and sometimes maybe get killed themselves. I don't know. (yelling)
Matt: Because it's fun to set the tone. It's fun. But yeah, so anyway. Thank you guys for joining us, old and new, welcome to our chaos. We have a few announcements to get through before we start tonight's game. First and foremost, for those who haven't seen, we've been putting up Spotify playlists compiled by our different players here. And this week we had Vex, Laura, put up her playlist. Which is awesome. If you want to say something about your playlist and some cool stuff they can look forward to?
Laura: Just that it's the coolest. No, it's actually weirdly personal to put it together and put it up. It feels like you're baring your soul. So I hope you guys enjoy my soul. And also, song three, which is like... everything.
Marisha: That one might have made me cry a little bit.
Laura: Right?
Marisha: Yeah, just a little.
Laura: I may or may not have been thinking of the Critters while I was picking that song. Just so you guys know.
Taliesin: I'm so excited. I haven't heard yours yet.
Sam: Are we on?
Matt: We are on. Hi. Welcome, Sam.
Sam: Hi, guys.
Liam: You're so early tonight.
Sam: (breathless) Oh yeah, sorry. (laughter)
Marisha: We're the beginning of the announcements. It's great. We were talking about the playlists.
Sam: Oh, I've got to finish mine.
Marisha: Yeah! You're almost done. I will say, for those who have not gone and checked out any of the playlists, we have Vax and Percy up as well. Definitely go do it, because all that little extra content that we put out is always kind of a litmus test, to see if people are going to be interested in it. And if you guys go and actually visit the webpage at Geek & Sundry, then we get more content. So the more you go visit it--
Matt: Make more stuff for you guys, yeah.
Marisha: Yeah, the more that we can show the people upstairs that people do like our stuff and our content, the more you will get. So please go check it out if you have not yet. It helps.
Taliesin: Here, actually, do this with me. Let's make a double rainbow gif, for later. (laughter)
Laura: That's beautiful.
Matt: That's on you, CritRoleSource.
Taliesin: That's on you, internet.
Marisha: You're welcome.
Matt: Cool. So that's awesome. Next announcement, for those who haven't had a chance to see it. A little over a year ago I Kickstarted a web series with a bunch of other really talented people. Sean Becker, who is director of The Guild, directed it. It's called Muzzled the Musical. Ashly Burch, a bunch of great talented people from The Lizzie Bennet Diaries and a bunch of other web series, Juliet Landau is in it. It's a great fun web series and it went live last week right before Halloween. So we have our three-episode arc up on YouTube. If you like musicals and you like fun silly dark, Doctor Horrible-style performances, then you're going to like this. Check it out, see if you like it. Let's see. Oh yeah, tomorrow is BlizzCon. BlizzCon, for all you crazy guys who are going or those who are watching on the digital online pass. A bunch of us Critters will be wandering the halls, doing panels and all kinds of fun stuff. Like, for me personally, I'll be there tomorrow at 4:30. I think, Liam, you are on that as well?
Liam: Yeah, same panel.
Matt: Yeah, The World of Warcraft Live panel. We'll be there doing that. And then doing a signing afterward. What else you guys got going on at BlizzCon?
Liam: I'm on three, so I think it's two on Friday and one on Saturday. I tweeted out the times. Don't remember them now, so just go check my feed if you want. I'll see you there.
Matt: Awesome.
Zac: I'm going to have to do my job really quick and jump in on that. And say that tomorrow at 4:30PM PST here, we will be doing a live trailer watch and reveal with special guests. Laura and Travis are coming by. Alison Haislip and Ify Nwadiwe are going to be our hosts for that. And then we are going to have interviews with Duncan Jones the director and some of the cast and crew. It's going to be really cool, so tune in tomorrow, 4:30, for that.
Taliesin: And then if you're at BlizzCon, I think we're going to be wandering around a little bit.
Marisha: Yes, I'll be there.
Taliesin: Yeah, I'll be there.
Marisha: We'll be there. Probably watching his panels.
Matt: Rock that out. Cool. Also, tonight is Critmas. So for those who want to hang around. (voice cracking) We have quite a cavalcade of presents.
Laura: There's a lot of presents, you guys.
Liam: Taliesin and I got here early and with Ryan we opened everything and it's an embarrassment of riches.
Laura: They had to open it so that we wouldn't be opening the boxes.
Taliesin: We tried not to peek.
Liam: Some of the stuff I didn't see, some of the stuff Taliesin didn't see. So we're not completely spoiled, we're a little spoiled.
Laura: We got a little spoiled. I got a little spoiled early, though.
Matt: Because of that.
Laura: Somebody sent a new Trinket! Look at that, you guys!
Matt: Giant bear.
Laura: Look at him. He's so cute.
Liam: And please. I mean, we thought it was a corpse, at first, when we got it. Then, when we opened it up we got really excited and I had this, which I used to open it. We got really excited and took a bear out, and then it was a bear and we forgot about all the wrappings and the paper. So if you sent us the bear, please contact us now.
Sam: Wait, we don't know who sent it?!
Liam: Just contact us now. You're watching. Somebody is watching who knows that person, so just let us know.
Matt: Find them, post it in the chat room.
Taliesin: Somewhere they're saying, "That's my bear".
Laura: Please! I have just been hugging it non-stop.
Matt: It was pretty amazing when it was wrapped up. It looked like a body. Like, straight up, season two Dexter. It was pretty fantastic.
Marisha: Which leads us to our next point. Please don't send us bodies.
Matt: Please don't. No bodies.
Taliesin: Address it to me, if you do.
Matt: (laughs) He'll know what to do.
Liam: I think if it had been the only package, we would have been able to focus better, but there were about a hundred packages, so it was difficult for us to focus. We were opening stuff for an hour and a half, so thanks in advance.
Matt: So thanks in advance for that. Also, you will recognize a couple of new songs tonight. We had the wonderful pleasure of having Bethesda approve us using Elder Scrolls music in our on-channel playlists. So I have been able to go back and re-incorporate all of my old Elder Scrolls music that I used when we originally played off stream. So that's really cool. Thank you, Bethesda. Thank you guys very much.
Taliesin: Now ten percent more realistic  Critical Role.
Matt: Exactly. Imagine that. Really stoked about that.
Taliesin: More authentic. Homebrew.
Matt: Just a reminder. The "How do you want to do this?" shirts are up. I still have to get one for myself. I think I should. And we have the Critical Role necklace and awesome keychain, which I have not seen in person until tonight.
Laura: They're really cool.
Matt: So we'll pass them around and we can each give it our blessing. Each individual one is blessed by me. That's not true, but you will still roll well while wearing one. So that's exciting, and let's see what else we got. Do you want to do the quick Wyrmwood thing? Reminder from Wyrmwood?
Liam: Yeah. We are friends with Wyrmwood Gaming, and you can still use the code CritRole to get free shipping on an order for your wood. Its beautiful wood. I have some black wood, but there's many different colors.
Laura: I got this wood.
Liam: They are really, really beautiful. So just share the nerd connections, everybody.
Marisha: Pretty sexy.
Laura: These are the Kickstarter boxes, though. These are what's being done now, or are those for sale right now?
Liam: The Kickstarter boxes are not. The CritRole code will not work for these, but they'll work for these bad mama-jamas right here.
Sam: Which is really what you want.
Laura: And these, too. These are deck boxes.
Matt: Yeah. Thank you, Wyrmwood, for being so awesome and for putting that code together for our community.
Liam: I have one personal thing.
Matt: Yes, please.
Liam: I have a pilot on Amazon Prime called Everstar, where I play a little robot.
Sam: Is that true?!
Liam: And he's really uptight. Yeah, that's a pilot.
Sam: Oh, did the Amazon pilots launch today?
Liam: They all launched, and I'm in a cute adventure cartoon for young girls and boys. And I'm up against bloody, gritty live-action dramas and political satire and other cartoons, as well. Roger Craig Smith is playing Mouse Cookies. But if you like Everstar, which is this young action/adventure space-pirate story, give it a watch. If you like it, vote it through. If it gets voted through, I will continue to be a robot.
Sam: I directed one, too, called Yoyotoki Happy Ears. So that's on there too.
Matt: How's that go, again?
Sam: Yoyotoki Happy Ears. It's really weird and funny, and it's actually really awesome.
Travis: Also, Halo 5 is out this week, which Laura and I are in. It's amazing.
Liam: I'm not familiar with that. What is that?
Travis: It's some game. Takes place in outer space.
Liam: Is that a match three? Like Bejeweled?
Travis: It's like Candy Crush, but with more death.
Taliesin: That's available on Android.
Matt: The last announcement is that they announced that The Witcher is coming to theaters in a couple of years, and that has nothing to do with us, other than the fact that I'm probably going to be at full mast for the next week, thinking of that possibility.
Travis: Said so casually.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: I'm so excited. Please don't fuck it up.
Travis: They will. It'll be Mark Wahlberg.
Matt: No, no, no!
Marisha: Channing Tatum.
Liam: Will Ferrell.
Matt: I will... I would not!
Marisha: Channing Tatum is Geralt of Rivia.
Laura: Done! Let's make this happen.
Matt: Don't. Guys, I will stop this show. Your DM is out! If Channing Tatum becomes Geralt, I will be so furious. He's great at certain roles. I loved him in... I absolutely adored him in the 21 Jump Street movies.
Sam: I guess he's not coming on our show, jeez.
Matt: That's enough of our silly talk. Let's go ahead and dive into the chaos that is the current circumstance. Keep in mind, the culmination of leading into Halloween with this story arc and now going and starting a rebellion in Whitestone on the Fifth of November has been a very delightful, unintentional coordination here.
Taliesin: I almost wore my special spider belt, too, but it felt too weird.
Matt: So that's pretty cool. So to get you guys up to speed with the circumstance that has happened, those especially that are tuning in for the first time. A couple known as the Briarwoods that took over the city of Whitestone five years before, murdering most of the ruling family of Percy-- other than himself, escaping-- have recently been doing political discussions with the home city of Emon. Vox Machina, our troop of intrepid adventurers, upon discovering this, battled them at Emon. They fled to Whitestone, and the party has then gone after to seek to destroy them and free the town, the once-home to Percival. In the process, it appears that there have been a number of warnings set, and the entire town has been long held under this dark, ominous rule that they have kept at bay. Apparently, they have found notes of previous, failed rebellions, and things that die here don't seem to stay dead. A number of zombified giants are wandering the city as these giant lurching sentinels. And apparently, a number of the cutthroats that helped the Briarwoods come to power in this town have now been given titles and land here and are now called the new nobles by the locals. During this process, you guys managed to sneak into the town, began setting out word of coming rebellion and that Percival de Rolo has returned and the Briarwoods' time is numbered. Upon meeting the previous chancellor to your father of the town, Archibald, you guys came to an understanding, and he was going to reach out to all of his contacts and let them know that the rebellion is happening. You guys then set out to set a two-pronged attack against two of the remaining new nobles in the town. Most of the party going to seek the outside of Count-- what's his name?
Travis: Count Dooku.
Laura: Count Dooku.
Marisha: Count Duke.
Matt: Duke Vedmeyer was the one that Scanlan went to, and then Tylieri is the one that the rest of you wandered outside. Now, as the rain pours down into the city, midday. Scanlan decided to open from a Polymorph spell, as a fly, to the top of the front doorstep of Vedmeyer's home. Then, proceeding to un-Polymorph and re-Polymorph into a triceratops. Of which, I have your statistics here for your triceratops form, if you want to come get that.
Marisha: Go get them stats, boy!
Taliesin: (chanting) Stats, stats, stats!
Marisha: (chanting) Stats, stats, stats!
Matt: So that's your triceratops form. After becoming a triceratops, you squashed the front guard that was there, you slammed through the front of the building, destroying the front door, and we cut to the other group who is stealthing through the rain. At which point, the okay was given to Grog, whether intentionally or not. Grog then charged to the front door of Tylieri's estate, and the rest of you prepared for impact. And that was where we left off, in the center of this chaos.
Liam: Let's do this!
Laura: Oh, god.
Matt: So without further ado. Sam.
Sam: But I was just handed this.
Matt: I know, take a look.
Travis: Sucks to be first!
Liam: He's got the maps out already. Get your shit together, man.
Sam: I've never been a triceratops before.
Liam: That's not what I heard.
Sam: All right, you're right. Think like a triceratops. So, I need shelter. I don't know. How do triceratopses think?
Taliesin: Probably like punk rock hippopotamuses.
Sam: Hip-hop-ipotimi.
Matt: Say, for the sake of this, for now, we'll go through your circumstance, as they are separate. So Scanlan, you are-- I did not have a triceratops, but I did have a stegosaurus. It's the same size. I'm sorry, bloodspike behemoth.
Taliesin: That's kind of racist.
Matt: I'm sorry. You know what? They're not around to argue.
Travis: That you know of.
Taliesin: We are going to get a bunch of angry tweets from stegosauruses and triceratops.
Matt: I'm sure. Please, bring them my way. As you slam your way into the front of Duke Vedmeyer's estate. Pieces of wood blasting outward, scattering among the center of the foyer. You see before you a rising staircase that divides into two separate staircases that curl around to the second level.
Sam: Lovely decor.
Matt: You also notice that the entire interior is currently filled with guards. All seemingly prepared and almost expecting your arrival.
Sam: I think I can take them, guys. I think I can take them.
Matt: You also see, at the top, Duke Vedmeyer himself. A large, hairless, grey-skinned goliath, wielding a giant two-handed sword, armored with a breastplate.
Marisha: Vecmeyer?
Matt: Vedmeyer.
Laura: He's a goliath?
Matt: He's a goliath, yeah.
Marisha: Vedmeyer is a goliath?
Sam: Wow, that's going to be fun later, but not right now. Okay, do I know? So, let's assess my knowledge real quick. I know about him a little bit. He is one of the thugs that came into the city.
Matt: Correct.
Sam: He is not a magic-wielder, as far as I know.
Matt: As far as you know, no. And at first glance, based on the fact that he is wearing heavy breastplate and is wielding a giant two-handed sword, you get the feeling he is probably not as heavily inclined towards the arcane arts as others you have encountered.
Sam: As I quickly survey the room, do I see anyone else who is a threat greater than a heavily armed guard? Anything that is a creepy wizard or a weird old mage?
Matt: Currently, no. Currently, all you see are a series of Whitestone guards in uniform armor, all with heavy crossbows, currently nocked. And as you come blasting through the door, they are already arranged in what appears to be a waiting pattern, should anything try and charge its way into the house.
Sam: So they'll probably all shoot me, won't they?
Matt: In fact, roll initiative.
Sam: So directly in front of me, there's a staircase going up?
Matt: Yep.
Sam: Any other doors or exits?
Matt: There are doors on each side that are currently locked, and other than that, no.
Sam: Those are locked doors?
Matt: They are closed currently, and they appear to be-- There's a giant wooden beam crossed over the front of each. Then there's the outside which leads to the exterior, to the raining outside of the household, and the stairs that go up.
Sam: Oh, man.
Matt: Roll initiative.
Sam: Initiative? Don't I get a surprise round? Doesn't matter. 21.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I don't get a surprise round because I sprung in there?
Matt: Apparently not.
Sam: Damn it.
Matt: You made a very loud noise when you turned into a triceratops and tore through the front of the household. All right, so Scanlan is up first.
Sam: So here's the thing. Here's the thing. I should probably leave.
Travis: Yeah, come on.
Sam: But come on. I'm a triceratops! I've got to have some fun first, right?
Travis: You can take a couple of hit points, right?
Sam: Right?!
Taliesin: I think you revert back to normal.
Marisha: Does Polymorph carry over?
Matt: If you go to zero hit points in animal form, you go back to your regular full health and any damage that carries over just goes to your regular health, at that point.
Laura: That's a lot of people.
Marisha: You have 115 hit points.
Matt: You guys aren't there. Scanlan, what are you doing?
Travis: (sings Jurassic Park theme) (others join in)
Matt: What are you doing?
Sam: Wait, it's my turn first?
Matt: Yeah, you have initiative, man.
Sam: I beat them with initiative?
Matt: You did.
Sam: They are more than my charging distance as a triceratops, right?
Matt: He's the only one that's within, technically. What's your speed?
Sam: 40.
Matt: 40. You would get right up to Vedmeyer if you were to charge.
Sam: I would be dead.
Travis: No, you wouldn't. You got it. Go stick him!
Matt: What do you want to do?
Sam: I'm going to go-- How far away are the doors on the sides?
Matt: Over here? It's about 35 feet.
Sam: I'm going to turn right and blast through that door. (laughter)
Matt: Okay!
Sam: Oh shit, it could be trapped. Well, we'll find out.
Liam: Expect the unexpected with Scanlan Shorthalt.
Matt: He goes blasting through the doors.
Sam: Do I have to roll to blast through the doors?
Matt: We are going to find out. Yeah, go ahead and roll a strength check. Roll a d20 and add your strength modifier of the triceratops form.
Sam: Okay, strength modifier says plus five. So that's only a 17.
Laura: For a door!
Sam: Me and doors don't get along too well.
Matt: You, running, slam your head in, through, the horns protruding and tearing through the wood. The doors break inward, but the doors don't fully blast inward.
Sam: The door beat me!
Matt: The door is in bad shape. It won't take much more power to blast through.
Sam: These fucking doors.
Matt: It's now your worst nemesis.
Sam: So now I am stuck in a door?
Matt: You could try and pull back out. You manage to pull out without an issue. The doors are mostly beaten inward. It will take but a small impact to blast through next turn, if you wanted to.
Sam: Next turn? Do I still have an action after this?
Matt: That would have been your action.
Travis: You're great! You're money. You're good.
Laura: Every single one of those guys can attack you now.
Sam: Yeah, but it probably won't happen.
Travis: Maybe they didn't see you.
Laura: Run away.
Sam: It's not my turn anymore, right? That's it.
Matt: That's your turn.
Laura: No!
Sam: My triceratops ass is sticking out.
Matt: Just right there.
Travis: Look, they're all dummies. They're just mannequins.
Matt: This guy moves up over the railing with his heavy crossbow and aims this way. These guys all shift to this side with their crossbows.
Sam: I'm going to die.
Matt: Over here, this guy's going to move to this point so he can get a view of you. And Vedmeyer is going to move down here and get his sword ready, grinning. As he holds his sword up, he puts his hand up and goes, "Aim, fire!" A bunch of crossbow bolts get loosed at once (shh, shh) through the middle of the room. What's your armor class as the triceratops?
Sam: I have no idea. 14?!
Matt: 11, that misses. That's a 13, misses.
Sam: Wow, these guys suck.
Taliesin: They are like stormtroopers.
Matt: Natural one.
Taliesin: They are! You are being attacked by stormtroopers.
Matt: That's going to be a 14, hits. 18, hits. 24, hits. That was six?
Sam: That was six.
Travis: Three hits.
Matt: One more, that's a 22. So I have four that actually hit you with the crossbow bolts.
Taliesin: You're fine.
Sam: Yeah.
Travis: You're now a porcupine triceratops.
Laura: You have 115 hit points.
Sam: I have 115 hit points?!
Taliesin: And when those go out, you are back to human hit points.
Matt: That's eight piercing damage. 13 piercing damage. 21.
Laura: Are you immune to any kind of damage?
Matt: 25. 34 points of piercing damage from this volley.
Liam: Is there resistance to anything on there?
Matt: Nope.
Sam: What does that take me down to? 81? Is that right? 115 minus 34, 81?
Taliesin: Sounds about right.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: All right. That brings us back to the top of the initiative round, and you're up.
Sam: Well, shit, then I've got to get some retribution.
Travis: Totally. Turn around and give it to them.
Sam: Am I considered flanked?
Matt: You are not.
Sam: Damn it.
Travis: You do have a tail.
Sam: I do have a tail.
Marisha: You are like a drunk guy at a craps table.
Sam: I don't know how to hit things. I've never hit things before.
Liam: There's the door you mangled in front of you.
Sam: Okay, I'm going to gore that guy to my left.
Matt: He is above you on the railing.
Sam: Oh, that's a balcony. I thought that was a stairway down.
Matt: I'm sorry, this is a balcony up top. So he's actually aiming down and firing at you.
Laura: Then just go through the door.
Sam: I'm going through the door.
Matt: All right, then roll another strength check.
Sam: Yeah, because I'm not tangling with Duke Vedmeyer or whatever. 23.
Matt: 23, not a problem. You burst through.
Taliesin: We're going off the map.
Liam: Hey, you guys!
Marisha: He's taking them off the grid.
Taliesin: He doesn't have a social security number!
Marisha: He doesn't have a social security number!
Matt: So what you see in here, as you blast through. It's a dining room with a central dining room table, two small tables in the far corners. There is a ten-foot window across the way. It appears to be a normal dining room set.
Sam: Is that my action?
Matt: That is your movement.
Sam: That's my movement?
Matt: Yeah, I'd say at this point it is so damaged that it doesn't take much effort to push through, so you can manage to push through as part of your movement.
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: You could pick 'em off as they run through. I'm not helping. I'm sorry.
Matt: Nope, you guys aren't there.
Taliesin: Not there. Shutting up.
Sam: (whispers) I should get out of there. But it's so fun.
Matt: What do you want to do, Scanlan?
Sam: So, I am in the room. No one is in there with me.
Matt: Correct.
Sam: So where's this laser pointer?
Taliesin: You can also hold your action. Just as an option. Not to help, but you can hold your action.
Sam: So, yeah. I'll just position myself right next to the the door there, and I will hold my attack until anyone runs through the door. They get an insta-gore.
Matt: Okay, good to know. Holding an action. The next turn will be Vedmeyer.
Sam: Oh shit, here he comes. Here he comes. It's me and the big guy.
Matt: Holds up there. He is going to wait there. He's actually going to dash and just get up right next to where the doors are burst open. He can hear you right around the corner. The rest of these guys are going to dash in.
Sam: Oh god. I think I can take them, guys.
Matt: There, there, there. This guy is going to just try and jump down. Let's see if he makes his acrobatics. He does not, with his armor. He leaps off the edge and manages to damage his ankle and is currently prone on the ground. That ends their turn. Back at the top. Are you still holding your action on your turn now? It's back to you.
Sam: Okay. Tell me this, did I hear a bunch of footsteps? Can I hear?
Matt: You heard a bunch of footsteps coming in, yeah.
Sam: (sighs) All right, I'm not good at fighting. I will--
Laura: Can you set a blaze?
Sam: I don't have any fire. I don't know why I was sent into this mission. I don't do fire things. I will drop my form. Is that an action?
Laura: You have a lantern!
Matt: You can drop it in a moment.
Marisha: Don't you have a torch?
Matt: The triceratops shrinks down to gnomish form now, in this partially destroyed dining room area. What are you doing?
Sam: I'm going to-- hold on.
Marisha: How did this plan happen, then?
Travis: Because we're a bunch of slap-dicks, that's why!
Marisha: Why didn't you say I don't have fire?! I said, "Hey Scanlan, I should come with you," and you said, "I can take care of myself. How many times do I have to tell you guys? I don't need your help."
Matt: The echoing voice you hear, in the back of your mind, as you imagine this is what Keyleth would be saying right now.
Marisha: Dorito's a failure, you guys.
Sam: Yeah, okay. I peek around the corner a little bit. Just make sure they're all there, and I will Stinking Cloud all of them.
Matt: Okay!
Liam: Why are you not Dimension Door-ing out of there?
Sam: I've got to have some fun first. How often am I going to take on a whole house by myself?
Travis: I like it. I'm so in love with you right now.
Taliesin: I approve of this plan.
Matt: All right. 20-foot radius sphere. I'd say you could affect all of them, yeah. All of them in this big ol' Stinking Cloud radius. Not a worry. This whole area fills up with gas. All right. All of a sudden, the entire foyer just fills up with this greenish, noxious cloud of poisonous gas. Let's see. They have to make a constitution save.
Liam: Get the goliath. Get that goliath.
Matt: What's the DC? Is this through your hand cone?
Sam: Oh, for sure it is. So 19.
Matt: (laughing) 19? Jesus Christ. Okay. Nope. Nope. Nope. Nope. Natural 20, he's fine. 19, he's fine. 18, nope. Nope. Double nope, because he's on the ground. Fuck that guy. Vedmeyer rolls a one. (cheering)
Matt: All right, so these two guys immediately cover their mouths and pull up this little bit of material they have around their chest plate armor to cover their mouth. The rest of them start (coughs) hacking up. One of them starts vomiting all over the ground, and he has a helmet on, so it's straining through. It's awful. (groaning)
Matt: Vedmeyer himself kind of backs against the wall and (groans) just tries to get it to leave the area, but it's just this thick cloud. It's slowly moving away. Yeah, they are in a bad place right now. Okay, and you still have movement. You have only moved five feet so far.
Travis: Is Stinking Cloud methane-based?
Sam: (laughs) It is the way I do it. I can still move?
Matt: Yeah, you only moved five feet so far, so you still have 20 feet of movement.
Sam: Okay, I'll do a Dukes of Hazzard over the table.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Unnecessarily.
Sam: Do I have to make an athletics check or anything for that?
Matt: Do an acrobatics to see how cool it was.
Marisha: See how cool it was!
Sam: Acrobatics?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: What do I do for that?
Liam: You got a number.
Sam: I know, but I don't do these things. 11.
Matt: 11. You (grunts) you slide, only because you partially destroyed it as a triceratops, (ssss) but in your head it looked pretty cool. Thank god none of your allies were around to actually witness it, but you heard the theme music.
Sam: Okay, yes. So I'm near the window now, right?
Matt: Yeah, you're right by the window.
Sam: Okay, and that's, I guess, everything. Right?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Okay. Your turn ends. Vedmeyer is just-- you can see his eyes are filling up with liquid. He does make his saving throw. He coughs. (coughs) Manages to clear the air around him. You can see the cloud slowly moving back this way, away from where it was cast. That finishes his turn. However, he is no longer affected by the Stinking Cloud. You can see as the cloud slowly moves past him, and his face comes through, his pupil-less, angry goliath eyes are staring at you from across the room to where the doors are open. You see him grit his teeth and (growls). You can hear his teeth scratching across themselves in anger and fury.
Sam: I'm shaking.
Matt: The rest of them are going to go. These two guys are going to move forward. They both come running in, putting another bolt into their crossbows, (clicking) pulling it back real fast, pulling up their heavy crossbows, and firing at you. That is going to be a 24.
Sam: Well, that hits. Of course it does.
Matt: And an 18.
Sam: Against what?
Laura: Your AC!
Sam: Oh yeah, that hits.
Matt: So you take 12 points of piercing damage from the first bolt and five points of piercing damage from the second. As both (zoomf, zoomf) bolts, one hits you in the shoulder and ricochets off, not doing much damage. The other one slams and actually embeds itself into your thigh, about an inch into it. It's piercing and sticking out the other side. Mostly caught armor, but you can feel it definitely got a chunk of flesh in the process.
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: That ends their turn. The rest of these guys, now, are going to try and make their saving throw. Fail. Fail. Fail. No, success on him, actually. He rolled a 19. A success on a natural 19. Fail. Fail. Well, no, actually these three succeed. The rest of them are still down. So I'll say that these guys here are all down. And he's still up. These two are still down. Okay. That ends their turn, you're up.
Sam: I so want to get some payback, but I shouldn't, right?
Liam: G-T-F-O!
Sam: I think I can take these guys.
Matt: That is a hell of a Lightning Bolt line, right there.
Sam: How big is that diameter?
Matt: It's about six feet across.
Sam: Oh, I can't lift that thing.
Matt: No, it's a big, long table. You have a very wide line of individuals, right there. All ready to snatch you.
Sam: All right, one more round. What do you say, guys?
Travis: We're not here.
Liam: We're not here.
Sam: One more round. I am going to-- fuck. Do I have line-of-sight on the door?
Matt: The door is right here. So you're by the window. So if you wanted to move over here, then you would have line of sight on pretty much everybody.
Sam: Yeah, that would be so fun.
Taliesin: You could move and then move back. I'm only helping with gameplay strategy.
Sam: He could brain me.
Travis: He could.
Sam: He could brain me in one shot. Okay. I will duck under the table so they think that's where I went, and then Dimension Door to the roof.
Matt: Okay! You duck under the table. I'm going to say make a deception roll to try and successfully feint them.
Sam: Oh, okay.
Liam: Can they see the top of his head behind the table?
Matt: From their direction it's kind of hard. Especially because there's a table and chairs up against it, and part of it has been crushed by a triceratops that was previously here.
Liam: "Oh, I'm going under the table."
Taliesin: Sentences you never expect to hear in your D&D game.
Sam: 31.
Matt: So you grab your head. Oh no! Do a very elaborate dive under the table.
Sam: Here I go under the table!
Matt: A little strange dull thud of arcane energy as you bamf up to the ceiling.
Sam: Okay, great.
Taliesin: He is reaching under the table, ladies and gentlemen.
Laura: I know, what does this mean? Oh, okay.
Matt: All right, is that your turn? You are now up on the rooftop. There's rain pouring down. You are immediately soaked from the heavy storm that's now coming into Whitestone.
Sam: Yeah. It's just me up here?
Matt: Just you up there, yeah.
Sam: Okay. I will go invisible and just hang and just see what happens.
Matt: Okay. Easy enough to do, because it will take a round for anyone to recover from that, anyway, because you have to use your action both turns. So as you are waiting up there, you cast Invisibility on yourself and wait.
Sam: And then I start digging through my pockets, if I have any flint or fire-making apparatus at all.
Matt: Check your equipment.
Sam: I will. I will look.
Marisha: Do you have an adventurer's kit?
Sam: Nope. I have some poison.
Matt: Poison the house. There you go. That'll work.
Travis: We are the best planners. Ever.
Matt: I know, you guys are rocking it.
Sam: Oh wait, I do have something.
Laura: Yeah? You do?!
Sam: I have a Potion of Fire Breath.
Matt: You do.
Marisha: Okay!
Laura: It's raining up there.
Sam: Well, but it's a potion. I don't know how it works!
Matt: You're checking your pockets. You find the potion. You look down and you notice, even through the storm, you can see in the distance, there's the dark shape of a giant lumbering zombie guard making its way down to this part of the town. What are you doing?
Sam: So I'm on a roof that's all soaking wet, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: There's no crawl space access? No attic I can get to?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: Okay. Whoa, nothing. Two.
Matt: Two? This is a pretty solid roof with apparently no entry point at any points. The craftsmanship is flawless.
Sam: Okay. You know what? I'll just try it. I will Fire Breath Potion myself.
Matt: Okay, you pull up (boink), pull the cork off, (glug glug).
Sam: I don't know what this thing does. I've just got this.
Matt: As you feel the fluid find its way down your esophagus, it warms it like a fine whiskey would, but the warmth just grows and grows to the point where it's almost too hot, but it never quite reaches a point where it's painful, but you feel as if this need to belch is burbling within your stomach, and at any given point in time, you could let that belch fly forward.
Sam: Okay. And am I close to the entry point roof? The roof of the entry point?
Matt: Where you came in?
Sam: Can I get over there?
Matt: Yeah, you just come running across the rooftop. It's a little bit of up and down as the topography happens, and as you're running, you start hearing voices shouting out in the street. You make your way over to the top of the roof above.
Sam: Okay, so I'm just going to lean over the side and scorch the whole front entrance as much as I can from where I am.
Matt: Okay. As you (grunts) let the belch out, it comes out in a large spray of orange, yellow, and red flames that immediately burst beneath the overhang, which--
Sam: By the way, I'm also invisible, right?
Matt: You are no longer, unfortunately. When you do an attack of some kind, the invisibility is released. So this gnome appears, soaking wet, over the edge of the roof and then releases this gout of fire that blankets the front of the building, catching flames on all the portions of the front part of the second, and parts of the first story, including the top of the entryway that you had already smashed through as a triceratops, which exposed a lot of dried wood. It immediately bursts into flame. As you complete that breath and you inhale for a second, you hear voices now starting to shout from the inside of the house. (muffled shouting) You can't really make out the noises, but it sounds like there's panic now starting to hit from the inside, and you see a few guards start rushing out into the street to try and look at where the source of the flames came from. They both look up and see you.
Sam: Oh, great! Wait, these are guards who are outside, yeah?
Matt: These are guards who were inside the house that as soon as the fire came shooting down and burned the house, they rush out, look up, grab their crossbows, and aim them up towards you.
Travis: Just your hands and head are sticking over.
Matt: That's a 17?
Sam: That hits.
Matt: And a 13.
Taliesin: Doesn't he have at least half-cover from the roof?
Matt: He does, actually.
Sam: That does not hit.
Matt: 17 does not hit.
Sam: Oh, no, the 17 does-- well, it would have.
Matt: That's a good point. You would have half- cover from looking over the rooftop; you only have a little bit of your hands and your face showing. So both go (pshew pshew), firing off into the rainstorm.
Sam: Because I'm a gnome, do I always have half- cover? (laughter)
Matt: No. But it's easier for you to find it. It's a lot less to cover.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: So both bolts (shoosh) streak past you into the sky. They angrily reach down and duck back inside the building with the rest of their movement to get out of the range of now what appears to be a flame-throwing gnome. So that's their go. What are you going to do?
Sam: Do I know enough about this potion to know if it gives me any other breaths, or is that it?
Matt: It does progressively give you a breath for a short time.
Sam: So I can breathe again?
Matt: Yeah. Specifically-- oh no! (laughter)
Matt: And that was the end of Scanlan.
Liam: It's the giant! It's the undead giant!
Sam: I have no idea what I'm doing.
Taliesin: You're doing so well. It's so great.
Matt: You have three different exhales of this. It lasts for an hour or until you exhale three times. It's a bonus action to do it, so you could also do something else and breathe fire.
Sam: It's a bonus action?!
Matt: Yep.
Sam: Okay. Well, then.
Travis: I don't know if that house is cooked enough, man.
Laura: I know, maybe you should just keep burning it.
Sam: (laughs) Yeah. So I'll run over to the back side of the house and do the same thing.
Matt: Okay. So you run over. Your full movement will get you about halfway across. At a dash, we'll get your other action there, and you'll have your bonus action left over. You manage to slide across the roof, grab the edge, reach over and (blows air). Just unleash on the opposite side. This side, because the angle the rain is coming at, is getting a little bit of water, but there is still a number of dry wood exposed by the immediate overhang that it does manage to catch, and the flames are beginning to burn up and collect on the sides because it is superheated flame. Both sides of the house now appear to be on fire. Looking over your shoulder, you can see now there is a pillar of black smoke rising up from the front of the building. You do see on the opposite side a hatch (click, bam) slam open and you see a giant, meaty goliath hand (boof)--
Laura: Oh no!
Matt: Now stepping out into the rain, you see the goliath Duke Vedmeyer step up (doosh) with his two-handed sword.
Sam: Shit. (shouting) Lovely home you've got here!
Travis: It's like Duel of the Fates. On a burning rooftop in the rain. (laughing) Giant goliath and a gnome who spits fire.
Matt: All right, it's your turn.
Sam: Okay. How close is his hatch to the edge?
Matt: The hatch is actually halfway. It's in the middle of the roof. It's actually met from the second story, from one of the rooms or one of the closets, so it's about 25 feet from either the front or the back side. It's right in the center of the house.
Sam: (frantic breathing) Okay.
Matt: Whatcha got, Scanlan? Whatcha got?
Sam: (muffled) I'm trying. I'm just seeing range here.
Marisha: It looks like a Frank Miller comic right now. It's what I see in my head.
Matt: Scanlan showing down in the rain.
Sam: Five times your Spellcasting ability modifier. My Spellcasting ability modifier is-- what?
Matt: It's charisma.
Sam: It's charisma. It's five. Five times five, that's 25. That's 25 feet. Okay. (sings) Bigby's Hand! So I call forth Bigby's Hand and I will force him off the roof. (cheering)
Matt: Okay. All right.
Taliesin: The roof is wet.
Matt: The roof is indeed wet. I'm aware. (laughs) Oh, this will be interesting.
Sam: (sings) I want to fly away.
Taliesin: (sing) Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Marisha: (sing) Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Sam: (sing) Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Matt: Okay. So you create the hand next to him, and as he starts stepping forward towards you with his sword at the ready, there's a shimmer in the air as a giant kind of vaguely purplish arcane hand all of a sudden appears. He looks confused for a second and rears back to try and attack it. As the hand pulls back, comes rushing forward towards him, I want you to go ahead and make a strength check with the hand.
Sam: Oh shit, he's strong.
Matt: The strength is plus eight, so add eight to this roll.
Sam: 17 plus eight...
Matt: (laughs) Natural one. (cheering)
Sam: I'm going to kill everyone in this motherfucking house! (laughter)
Matt: I've rolled so many ones today. This is ridiculous.
Marisha: You have, and we're just getting started.
Matt: All right. The hand pushes him five feet plus the number of feet equal to five times your spellcasting modifier. Yeah. Okay. As the hand shoves him, he goes pushed off to this side. Seems to be holding against it, but the hand eventually scoops him up and actually gets him off of his feet and shot-puts him off the roof. He plummets backward off the side of the roof, and you wait a second to hear a (boof) across the way. That's full damage there. (mutters) Okay, he takes 34 points of falling damage and is knocked prone.
Liam: You can't get this on network television, ladies and gentlemen.
Matt: So you're now standing alone on the rooftop, your Bigby Hand there next to you, a little trickle of fire curling at the corner of your mouth from your final dragon's breath when you decide to use it. What are you going to do?
Sam: Oh. I've got to get out of here. (laughs)
Travis: Just burn it.
Laura: Burn in the hatch and then get out.
Sam: Okay. Am I close to the hatch?
Matt: Yeah, you're about 25 feet from it. It's where you got him.
Sam: I'll hoof it over there and just look around and punch myself in the gut, (belch).
Matt: Okay. As you reach over, you look down, and there is a ladder that leads up to the front, and there are two guards that are currently making their way up to the roof. They look up and see you, and their eyes go wide within their helmets, and as you release the flames, all you see is their faces go, "Ah!" Just engulfing the entire tunnel. Roll 4d6.
Marisha: 4d6?
Sam: 4d6?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: I don't have any d6.
Matt: There you go. They both fail their DC 13 dexterity saving throws because I can't roll tonight.
Sam: 15.
Matt: 15? Okay. They both take 15 points of fire damage and the entirety of that space has now burst into flames. You pull back because the heat is intense, backdraft-style, as you're at the top.
Sam: Do my eyebrows burn off?
Matt: They don't burn off, but you feel they might be a little singed. You'd have to give it a few days to recover. And you hear screaming down inside the tunnel and both of them are currently dealing with the fact that they're on fire. So that's your movement, that's your bonus action. You still have an action.
Sam: Okay. I've got to get the hell out of here, guys. Okay, tell me this, Dungeon Master.
Matt: Yes?
Sam: Dimension Door. Can it be used at higher levels?
Matt: Let me double-check on that, actually. I don't know if it can, but we'll find out.
Laura: Can you Bigby's-Hand slam down onto the Count?
Matt: Dimension Door, no. Dimension Door cannot.
Sam: Okay. How about Polymorph?
Matt: Polymorph... nope.
Sam: I'm fucked. (laughs)
Laura: You've used all your spell slots?
Taliesin: You can use Bigby's Hand to--
Sam: I don't know if Bigby's Hand can catch me. It's not like Feather Fall.
Marisha: Can it carry you?
Laura: Can you float?
Travis: Maybe it's like a slide.
Laura: Maybe you can slide down Bigby's Hand.
Taliesin: Fly it like the carpet.
Matt: Do you want to try?
Travis: You're welcome to try.
Liam: Yeah, you've lifted people with it. You've grabbed people.
Travis: I mean, ultimately, on foot sucks for him right now.
Marisha: Just surf on the giant floating hand.
Taliesin: Through the sky.
Marisha: Through the sky.
Liam: Is what your friends would say if they were there.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: All you've got to do is get away for this to be amazing.
Laura: Otherwise, you'll burn alive on a roof.
Marisha: All you have to do is live.
Liam: Comically tragic.
Matt: What are you doing?
Sam: Okay. Does Unseen Servant have any mass?
Matt: Not really, no. Unseen Servant is like a barely-there small-level air elemental.
Sam: Okay. So I'm just going to (hums a bit, then sings) I'm jumping in the rain. I'm jump-- so I'm going to jump off the-- can I go away from the Goliath?
Matt: That would be this way, this way, or this way, because he fell off that side.
Sam: So not the two sides that are on fire.
Matt: The flames are now licking up both sides of the house, so you have to go this way.
Travis: Where's the zombie stone giant now?
Sam: It's going to take a couple of turns to get over there.
Matt: Yeah, the full length of it. At full dash it will get you there and there, and you still have about a good 20 more feet to get, so that's your turn, there.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: The two guards that were back that way are now no longer on fire. They have gotten to the roof and put themselves out. They both look very, very angry at the current circumstance. They step out of the hatch both places.
Liam: Different hatch or the same hatch?
Travis: The hatch is on fire?
Matt: The hatch is still on fire, there are still flames, but they got out (panting). They're out in the rain now. The rain's putting out and dousing the flame that's on them. They both look over and see you running away. They pull their hand crossbows at the ready. They were already ready to fire. That's a 24? And a 26.
Sam: For the second guy, I-- no, I'll just take it. Okay.
Matt: Okay, they both hit. They had 24 and 26. That is seven points of piercing damage and 12 points of piercing damage. So 19 total.
Sam: Okay, got it.
Matt: All righty. They both reach over and grab bolts out of their sides and start preparing for another series of shots. Both catch you in the side. One you can feel a few inches into your shoulder and it's making the joint stick, and the pain is starting to really burn on the left side of your body, but you're okay. Now it's your turn.
Sam: Okay. I look back at them and I do that thing where you just kind of do this. (laughter)
Marisha: Trust fall?
Sam: And I trust fall off the back of it.
Liam: Do you have the earring in?
Sam: Oh, I do. (laughs) But I'm going to simultaneously make Bigby's Hand try to catch me at the bottom of it.
Matt: Go ahead and roll a d20 and add your charisma modifier to it.
Sam: Charisma?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: That's 20.
Matt: 20? You trust-fall off, your eyes somewhat closed and letting it happen.
Sam: Come on, Bigby. Catch me.
Matt: And in the moment that you expect ground to meet you with a heavy, hard smack of reality, a soft cushion of arcane energy catches you as these spiritual purplish fingers curl around and gently bring you to the ground.
Travis: Beymaxed it.
Sam: Oh! Don't get handsy, Bigby. (laughter)
Laura: Austin Powers.
Sam: All right. Is that my turn?
Matt: Oh, that was just the fall, and you land there. He's way over this way. So you're outside of the house now. You're in a small alley between-- well, not an alley. You're on the side of the house and there's a big grassy area around it, and there's the fence that surrounds the whole...
Liam: Run, Forrest.
Sam: So I'm going to-- do I get an action? No, Bigby's is a bonus action.
Matt: It's an action to use its ability, so it was your action to catch you as part of it.
Sam: It's an action?
Matt: To do anything with Bigby's Hand.
Sam: It says, "and as a bonus action on subsequent turns."
Matt: Oh, it's a bonus action?
Sam: Oh, wait. No, that's for moving it. The bonus action is moving it. I got it.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: So you've been moving it along with you as you go.
Sam: Yeah, but the act of catching me was the action.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Got it. Okay. So I'll just start running. (laughs)
Matt: Okay. So you're going to start running over this way.
Sam: On my tiny little nubby legs.
Matt: All right. As you run, you get over to the front of the gate that is closed off. It's a little bit too tight for you to squeeze through. How do you plan to get over the gate?
Sam: I'm planning to climb over the gate.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: (laughs) I've got nothing left.
Matt: Make an athletics or acrobatics check to try and get over the gate.
Liam: Whatever the better number is. Whatever's better: athletics or acrobatics.
Sam: They're both pretty terrible. 16.
Matt: 16. Okay. Is that acrobatics or athletics?
Sam: That's athletics.
Matt: Athletics. So you run, you jump up (ching), grab onto the metal bars to start just pulling yourself up over the top, land on your feet, and you're now right near where the street is, and you can see to your right it's open, towards the direction of where the rest of the party is. To the left, you can see now, coming through the rain about a hundred feet from you, a giant hulking zombie giant that's stomping towards you. As you notice that, you see a number of figures come swarming out of the two buildings to the side of it, and immediately start attacking the zombie giant.
Travis: Go, go, get out.
Liam: Go, go, get out.
Marisha: They're attacking the--
Laura: They're attacking the zombie giant. That's good.
Liam: You have inspired people. G-T-F-O, man.
Sam: Yeah. I'm useless to you guys. Yeah, I'm going to go invisible and watch from the shadows.
Matt: Okay. So you just cloak yourself and watch from the shadows off to the side. As you are there for a little bit, keeping your eye out for the next couple of minutes, you can see the house is now completely engulfed in flames. The rain, try as it might-- the roof itself is not catching yet, but you can see now, fire is licking out of every single window and glass is steadily breaking over time. (crash, crash) The guards have all escaped out, and you can see the guards and Vedmeyer are now storming across the entire grounds. He's giving orders left and right, and they're all out searching for you in the nearby vicinity of the home. Looking across the way, you can see the zombie giant is now currently reaching down and swapping down. You can get a closer view. They look like some of the normal inhabitants here, are wearing makeshift armor, weapons that they have, and they are now rising up and attempting to take down this zombie giant. You watch as it reaches out. It slams and smashes one to the ground, leaving him lifeless, while another two leap up on the back of the zombie giant and are stabbing it with spears, and you see it (moaning), it gives out this roar. It's hard to tell from this distance which side is getting any ground, but it is currently held up by this group of about ten individuals that are attacking it at once.
Sam: It's cool.
Marisha: That's so cool.
Matt: You just going to stay there and wait it out?
Sam: I think I'll wait it out if I'm in a relatively safe place, because I can't really do anything for you guys, anyway. You're on your own.
Matt: Okay. We'll use that to hop over to the other party.
Sam: Oh, I'm taking a short rest.
Laura: Oh, that's good! Yes.
Matt: A short rest is about half an hour to 40 minutes of waiting, so you might want to find a place that isn't quite so intense to do this. You can try and sneak into one of the nearby homes and do it, maybe.
Sam: Well, I still want to see where this giant thing goes, so I'm still watching it.
Matt: Okay, so you would not be able to rest, unfortunately. It's not a very restful situation right now, to gather yourself. Okay.
Sam: Whew! I lived.
Laura: I like that Scanlan takes out an entire house, and we're all probably going to die.
Travis: Dude, you were fucking Rambo just then. You were Scanlan Rambo.
Laura: You're a legend.
Travis: Do you have any red cloth you can tear off and tie around your forehead?
Liam: Is your beret still on?
Sam: (laughs) I never got a beret. Did I get a beret?
Taliesin: You did get a beret. I thought you got a beret.
Sam: Yeah, I wanted a beret.
Travis: That was outstanding. (laughter)
Matt: I approve of this greatly. All righty. The rest of you guys who have all been slinking out the back. You just knocked a guard out. Trinket came with you?
Laura: Trinket went with Grog.
Matt: Grog. Right, that's right!
Laura: You can do it, buddy!
Matt: Percy, Vex, you guys are all back this way. The back of the building. You can see what looks to be one door to a back room. Grog, as you come slamming up with Trinket behind you (thudding footsteps) up to the front of the building, you see the front doors are there before you.
Travis: Oh, they're in front of us?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: I'm already raging?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: I just fucking bust through, apeshit-style.
Matt: Okay. Make a strength check.
Travis: Okay.
Laura: Can I ask you, really fast?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: I never leveled up Trinket's hit points when I leveled up.
Matt: You didn't. All right.
Laura: That's important at this moment.
Matt: It is very important at this moment.
Taliesin: Ugh, why do you have to do that, man?
Matt: Trinket's hit points right now are what?
Laura: 56.
Matt: 56.
Marisha: This Elder Scrolls music is pretty dope.
Liam: Bringing it home.
Matt: Trinket should have four more hit points.
Laura: Four?
Matt: Yeah. All righty.
Liam: Zac, adjusting the microphones.
Zac: Nobody knows. Nobody knew, until you said something!
Travis: I got advantage on the strength check, so it was a 26.
Matt: 26?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: You rush forward. With your foot, (boom) it's Sparta, the front of that door as it just (crash) cracks open, Trinket coming up behind you. The doors open. You can see now before you, there is a single staircase that curves up to a second floor. There is a large vase right at the base of it, right there. There's a couple of tables by it, and it goes to the right and left. Do you enter the premises, or are you staying right at the door? It's up to you.
Travis: Yeah, I go in.
Matt: All right. Grog, you push your way in, Trinket following behind you right there. Immediately, you see the upper banister, right over the railing also, similar to what Scanlan encountered, has guards completely within this area, at the ready, crossbows pulled. In wait.
Laura: Oh, god. He just keeps adding them!
Liam: Just 12 more.
Marisha: Cool.
Matt: There is Tylieri. All waiting, crossbows at the ready. The doors slam open, you guys rush in. For a second, there's nothing immediately within your range, and you look up and see an entire array of guards all trained upon you and Trinket. A voice behind them goes, "Loose!" (fshh)
Travis: At least Trinket's behind me.
Matt: (chuckles) What's your armor class?
Travis: 19.
Liam: You're going to tell us when we can do something in the back, right?
Matt: Yep. This is just-- because of the speed everything goes, he gets there before anybody.
Liam: Yeah. Just curious.
Matt: No worries. All right, that is-- ooh. That is 27 to hit?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: That is 15 to hit? No. Third one, that is 16 to hit? Nope. That is a 21 to hit?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: 26 to hit.
Travis: Yes.
Matt: That's a 22 to hit?
Travis: Yep.
Laura: All the shitty guards were over at the other house.
Matt: 14 to hit?
Travis: No.
Matt: 20 to hit?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Then three more.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: 22 to hit?
Travis: Yep, that hits.
Matt: 12 to hit?
Travis: No. Last one?
Matt: And ten to hit. Yeah.
Matt: Six.
Travis: Six.
Matt: Six crossbow bolts come at you. That's eight points of piercing damage. Don't halve them yet. We'll add them all up and then we'll halve that.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: So, eight plus 13. 21. Plus eight again, 29. Plus another nine.
Travis: 38.
Matt: 38, plus another 11.
Travis: 49.
Matt: So 49, and then another 12.
Laura: 61.
Matt: So 61. So you take half that, which would be 31 points of piercing damage on you in one volley of crossbow bolts at you. (shoosh) You protected Trinket, and the rage did descend it a little bit. The pain, as all these bolts are now sticking out of your chest. You look like this front-quilled porcupine. You just take the pain and grin for a second. You have that iron-y taste of blood reach the back of your throat from the immediate impact and it just further intensifies your rage. I'm going to have everyone here roll initiative because you're all acting simultaneously at this point.
Marisha: Which dice? Green dice.
Laura: I know, I'm like, "Which ones?"
Marisha: That was-- nope. Not good.
Matt: All righty. 25 to 20?
Laura: Oh, should I roll for Trinket, too? Oh, he goes when I go.
Matt: Trinket goes when you go.
Liam: 23.
Matt: 23? All right. We have Vax at the top. 20 to 15?
Travis: 18.
Laura: 17.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Thanks to the Feral Instinct.
Matt: All right. 15 to ten? Ten to five?
Travis: Oh, shit.
Marisha: Five.
Matt: What did you get?
Sam: I'm not there.
Matt: Oh, no. Sorry, you're not.
Taliesin: I totally forgot. I'm so sorry. I'm at 26. I got distracted because I have a new--
Travis: Distracted by what?
Matt: To be fair, I asked 25 to 20. (laughs) That's my own fault.
Taliesin: I'm using my new sheet and I'm just confused, so yeah.
Matt: That's okay.
Laura: You're cheating?!
Taliesin: New sheet. I leveled up, so I had to do a thing.
Matt: By the way, guys, both Scanlan and Percy leveled up this last time.
Travis: If only Rambo Scanlan was here. (laughter)
Laura: It's insane.
Matt: So. We have at the top of this combat round, Percy.
Taliesin: Oh boy. Okay, is there a way in?
Sam: Are you getting a FaceTime?
Matt: Am I?
Taliesin: Are you FaceTiming somebody?
Matt: I'd better not be. That was weird. I don't know what happened there. Anyway. Battle's still up.
Taliesin: So is there a way in, at this point?
Matt: There is a door right here at the back of the building that you can see, but the door is currently closed.
Taliesin: I'm running over to the door and opening it. I can hear the commotion from inside, and I'm running in the door.
Matt: Okay. You rush to the door. You go to try it, (clicking). The door is locked.
Liam: Hold your turn, dude.
Taliesin: I'm holding my turn.
Matt: You're going to hold your action.
Taliesin: I'm holding my action.
Matt: Okay. That's fine.
Liam: All right, I'm up.
Matt: Next up is Vax.
Liam: Yeah. I'm going to try to unlock the door.
Matt: All right. You go ahead and you rush over (whoosh), pull out your lockpicks.
Liam: So that's a ten. 23.
Matt: Rain's still pouring down, you have your hood up, the water's dripping past your face as you're trying to concentrate. You get the tools in. It's not a very complicated lock. (click, creak) You push it open, leading you guys into the interior of what looks like a kitchen.
Liam: Perception check. Which is a 25.
Matt: 25. As you look inside, it's a cold kitchen. It hasn't been in use for a while. The fire's up, there's a little bit of a slab in the corner where most of the preparations are done, there's a few cabinets that are up. It's dark. There's no lantern.
Liam: And what are the other doors?
Matt: There's a door immediately to your left, and there's, across the way, is an archway opening. There's no actual door there. It's just a walkway that leads into the next room.
Liam: So it's open straight ahead?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: I haven't used any movement. If I go to the archway right across, right?
Matt: Yep.
Liam: I'm clicking my boots as I walk forward. Do I perception check again at the arch, or does the same one hold?
Matt: As you glance through, you can see what appears to be...
Liam: I unlocked the door and I've walked ten feet.
Matt: There appears to be a hallway. There's a hallway that goes across the way. There's a door at the end of the hallway, and two doors to the right and left of this hallway.
Liam: All right, I'm going to juke to the left. I'm going to go to that door and try the knob.
Matt: Right here?
Liam: Nope, no, the other door in the room I'm in.
Matt: Oh, over here?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: You go over there and you try it. (click) It opens up.
Liam: (singing) Perception!
Matt: Opens up into what appears to be a storage room.
Liam: Nothing.
Matt: Series of barrels, small grain sacks in the far corner. It appears that most of the dry storage for the kitchen is kept in this room.
Liam: All right, so I look straight at Percival.
Taliesin: I'm going to go straight through the hallway and try the door on the left.
Matt: Okay. Move you forward to do that, you move in.
Liam: I'd like to use the last of my movement just to stay-- because I've got the boots on, I've got a lot of movement left; I can stay ten feet behind him.
Matt: You do. Okay. You stay behind him as you move in. The door, this one here?
Taliesin: Yeah, move the one to the right. Yeah, sure, that one.
Matt: (shhh) You slide that one open. It appears to be a bathtub in there. It's a rather nice powder room and bathroom.
Taliesin: There's no way to just quickly push the other door open, too, is there?
Matt: You can try. I'll say for this round, you can go ahead and open that, look inside for a second, go for this, just really quick checking back and forth. This one, this door actually, it does not appear to open at a push.
Taliesin: And I signal.
Liam: Can I, at this point?
Matt: No, you've already done your move.
Liam: And we're on the first floor, right?
Matt: Yes, you guys are on the base floor.
Travis: And they're all up on the second floor, right?
Matt: Right, that's your go. So. Bringing us to Count Tylieri's turn. Count Tylieri, who is currently looking over the banister. He kind of steps forward here for a second. Grog, this works for you because you look up and see all the guards there. Tylieri walks up. This rotund-looking, slimy individual, thinning hair, very pale skin, a little bit of facial hair that has never really seemed to grow fully in, but he tries to groom the best he can.
Laura: Grog's beard is better than that.
Matt: Oh, much better. He's wearing fine clothing. He's got rings encrusting his fingers, but he walks with a deftness to the edge of this stairway and looks over and says, "Interesting. I figured there'd be more of you."
Travis: Interesting. There's a lot of dead men up there.
Matt: (laughs) Of which, you see him leap up onto the ceiling, (pshh) stick to it. And begin to (skittering noise) scatter across.
Laura: The one with the shitty beard?
Matt: Yep.
Marisha: Tylieri?
Matt: Yep.
Sam: He's Spider-man?
Matt: He jumps up and spider-crawls across the ceiling, and then drops down. Yeah. With deft acrobatic feats, he leaps across, drops and lands right in front of you. You can see now in his face, as slovenly as it is, there is a look of deathly hunger in his eyes, and fangs bared from under his lips.
Travis: That's a neat trick.
Matt: He is now going to make two melee attacks against you. That's a natural 20 with the claw, and the other one's going to be a 15? I don't think it's going to hit.
Travis: No.
Matt: So he now has these long claws in his hand. The first one (whoosh). It catches you off guard from the sheer weird assault that he's brought to you.
Travis: What's wrong with you?
Matt: (laughs) You take 16 points of slashing damage (whoosh) from the first arc, and he goes up with the second hand and this time you (grunt) pull out of the way. His hand manages to knock some of the bolts free that were jammed in your chest.
Travis: Half the 16, right?
Matt: Half of 16, correct.
Travis: So, eight.
Matt: Because you're raging, so eight on that one. That's his go. And he just grins at you with this hissing sound, licking his fanged lips. That ends his turn. That brings us to Grog. You're up.
Travis: (growls) I go into a frenzied rage and I use reckless attack, along with my great weapon master, and I turn that thing into a piece of goo with my war hammer. (laughter)
Matt: Okay. War hammer (fwoosh) bursts into flames. Your eyes all of a sudden go into an intense glare as you rear up and go into your frenzied rage. Make your attacks. Do it.
Travis: Advantage on them. That's much better. That's 24?
Matt: 24 hits on the first strike. You only have advantage on the first attack.
Travis: Oh, gotcha. Okay. Just the first one.
Matt: Yeah, the first one's a reckless strike.
Travis: Okay. 21?
Matt: Hits, as well.
Travis: And 20.
Matt: All three hit.
Travis: Yes. Okay.
Matt: That's with the minus five, right?
Marisha: Great weapon master?
Matt: Because of great weapon master, it would be minus five to each attack.
Travis: No.
Matt: All right, so the last one was 15?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: Last one misses.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: But the first two do hit.
Travis: Okay. I forgot that part. Know your rules, kids.
Laura: Then you add a ten to all of them?
Travis: 21 for the first one.
Matt: 21 points of damage.
Travis: And 20 for the second one, and the third one misses, right?
Matt: That's with the fire, right?
Travis: That's with the fire.
Matt: Yeah. Third one misses, so 41 points of damage to him with the first two, (whack, whack), the impacts slamming into him. You can see his body get pushed back with each impact. He's still taking it and grinning at you, but he's also seemingly surprised by the ferocity of the strikes. Is that your turn? Are you going to move?
Travis: That's it. No, I'm not going to move.
Matt: Okay. He's going to use one of his legendary actions to, at the end of your turn, reach out and attack you again. That's going to be a 23 to hit?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Instead of attacking, he's going to grapple you.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: So his claw goes up and actually (fwoosh) reaches into your throat, and you can feel the claws digging into the flesh. It's a very, very firm grip and he has you right where he wants you.
Travis: Work that hand out a lot, do you?
Matt: That's that action there. All right, that brings us to the guards. The guards all reload their crossbow bolts, move in. These three now see the bear in the back and they're going to fire on Trinket. These seven are all going to fire on Grog, now that he's held there. So the three against Trinket. That's going to be a 16?
Laura: Doesn't hit!
Matt: That's going to be a 20?
Laura: Hits.
Matt: And a 22.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: So Trinket takes six points of piercing damage and 11 points of piercing damage. Total of 17 points of damage to Trinket as two bolts (shink, shink). One of them bounces off the armor. One actually sticks and Trinket, (growls) but it's not enough to really cause much of a worry.
Laura: Yeah, he doesn't care.
Matt: The other seven against you, Grog. Natural 20. Natural one. That's not going to hit, that's a natural five. 18?
Travis: Misses.
Matt: Natural one. That's a 19, that hits. A 19 naturally, so it's 27. One more. That's 18 to hit.
Travis: Misses.
Matt: Oh, these all have advantage on you because you did a reckless attack.
Travis: That's right, I did.
Matt: So the one that would have missed is a natural 20.
Travis: Nay!
Matt: That does hit. Natural 20 again.
Marisha: What?
Matt: I'm rolling for all the ones that would have missed.
Sam: Why do they have advantage on you?
Travis: Because I had advantage on mine.
Matt: Yeah. Reckless attack.
Sam: That's reckless!
Travis: (laughs) It is very reckless.
Matt: They all hit you, three of which are crits.
Travis: (sarcastically) Yay!
Marisha: Son of a bitch.
Matt: First crit is 19 points of piercing damage.
Liam: (flatly) Merry Critmas.
Laura: We're all going to die.
Matt: The second crit is going to be nine points of piercing damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Last one is going to be another nine points of piercing damage.
Travis: Okay, 37 halved.
Matt: Actually, that would be 15 total because that was a crit. So the three crits are out of the way.
Travis: Okay. 37. So, 15 total?
Matt: 15 on the last one, yeah.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And so those are the three crits.
Travis: 33. What's half of 33?
Laura: 16.
Liam: 16 or 17. 16.
Matt: There you go, so that's that. And the next ones are 11. Another 11.
Taliesin: We're going to have to thin these ranks out quickly.
Matt: Ten. And seven. So you take another 39 points of piercing damage after that.
Travis: Okay, I'm going to use my stone's endurance to get rid of that stank.
Matt: One of them, yeah.
Travis: Roll, plus my constitution. 16.
Matt: Okay, so we'll say you reduce one of the crits from 16. The first one, take 15 points off that because I think one of the crits was 15. We'll say you used it on that one. That's 39 points of piercing damage, reduced by half. That will put you at 18.
Travis: 18? Okay.
Matt: We'll say you take 18 points of piercing damage from those four non-crits.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: So yeah. That ends the guards' volley. That brings us to Vex. You're up.
Laura: Me? And Trinket.
Matt: Yes. And Trinket. Both.
Laura: Okay, so I run in after Percy and my brother.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And Trinket--
Matt: Are you going to dash? Because you can move, you can double move, using your action to move, if you want.
Laura: Oh, I can?
Matt: Yeah. Unless you want to use your action to yell out for Trinket to attack, in which case, you can give Trinket a round of combat.
Laura: Oh, I do want to give Trinket a round of combat, so yes.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And he gets a couple of attacks if I don't attack at all, right?
Matt: Correct. Yep.
Laura: So that's good. (screams) Okay, Trinket gets two attacks because of bestial fury.
Matt: Correct.
Liam: He hears your voice!
Laura: Because he hears my voice. So he's going to run around and he's going to try to knock over-- he's going to cannonball into the vampire guy.
Matt: Okay, so he's going to move this way and then cannonball forward?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. Trinket moves off to the side. (thudding footsteps) Gets a couple of running starts, and then rolls into a roly-poly style forward. All right, so make one attack against him.
Laura: Okay. Okay. What do I add to that?
Matt: Your attack bonus for Trinket.
Liam: I don't know, for your bear. AC, HP, bite attack, claw attack, plus eight.
Matt: Yes, plus eight just for the attack.
Laura: Okay, 15?
Matt: 15 does not hit, unfortunately. So Trinket rolls past. He dodges out of the way, gets an attack of opportunity on him because he wasn't hit as part of the attack. That's a 27 to hit. Trinket takes seven plus three, ten points of slashing damage as he streaks by. Seeing the bear coming at him too soon and managing to both pull out of the way and use that to his advantage.
Taliesin: I'm going to be playing rule Nazi tonight. Is that attack of opportunity possible since he's grappling somebody?
Matt: Technically, yes. He's just grappling with one hand and just dodges out of the way, moves over and slashes with the other hand.
Taliesin: Trying everything I can to save this bear.
Matt: I know you, man. It's okay. (laughter)
Laura: Trinket then comes out of cannonball and tries to bite the back of the vampire's neck.
Matt: Okay. I'll let you do that because this is your full round to do that. Usually you would choose to cannonball--
Laura: Or I do my two attacks?
Matt: But because you aren't part of this combat fray and you're giving all of your round to him, I'll let you do it, sure.
Laura: Okay. Thank you.
Matt: Trinket comes out of the roll, turns around (roars) and strikes with the claw, swiping--
Laura: He's trying to bite his neck like a vampire!
Matt: Oh, bite him? Okay.
Laura: Oh, shit. Ooh! That's good. 27.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: Split his head like a gourd.
Laura: 11.
Matt: 11 points of damage as Trinket latches onto the back of his shoulder (growls) and pulls and tugs at him, trying to get him loose from Grog's grip. Not strong enough to do so, but he nevertheless takes the damage and (snarls) hisses back at the bear clutched onto his shoulder. Cool. That ends your turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay, can I see the smoke from the fire rising up from what Scanlan did on the other house?
Matt: At this point? Make a perception check. It's a heavy storm.
Marisha: That's not great. 12?
Matt: 12? Currently, in the storm, you're just not able to really make up any visual in the distance right now, no. You do not know if there is any fire going on or any signal, at this point.
Marisha: Okay. Shit. Are there any other windows along the back side of the house?
Matt: Over here? Yeah, there's a window there, window there, window there.
Marisha: Through the side.
Matt: Oh, back here? This side, there are no other windows. It is completely closed off.
Marisha: No other windows?
Matt: Nope, there's just the one entry there that everyone else went in through.
Marisha: Shit. Okay, I'll go inside.
Sam: Hello, is there anyone in here?
Marisha: Is there anything in this direction? This way? Can we not get this way?
Matt: This is a storage closet that was already checked by Vax, who walked past it.
Marisha: Do we know if there are any outside doors over here on this side?
Matt: You don't, no. No one's moved all the way in to see, and it's not very well-lit in there, currently.
Marisha: Could I have gone around the edge here to see? Would we have known, going on this side, if there were any doors?
Matt: No, because you guys approached from that side. You saw windows, but it was fairly dark. You saw a little bit of light moving through some of the windows on the second story, but nothing down here that really caught your attention.
Marisha: And we still have no way into this main room, either, yet?
Matt: Not yet. There is a door at the end of this hallway, but nobody's gotten to try it yet.
Travis: Could you get to a second-floor window?
Matt: You could push past your party and continue to move down the hallway, if you want.
Laura: Second floor's better than first floor, anyway.
Marisha: Okay. I'm sorry. I'm an asshole.
Sam: You turn into an asshole.
Marisha: (giggling) I turn into an asshole. Were there any-- fuck, I really don't want to have to blow-- okay, so I'm going to---
Matt: What are you going to do?
Marisha: Yeah, you know what? I didn't go inside. I'm outside.
Matt: You came inside. Not going to retcon it.
Marisha: Dick. All right.
Matt: I'm just saying! You can't get halfway in there and be like, "Wait, this didn't happen."
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: Technically, none of this happened.
Taliesin: Thank you for coming with me on that journey.
Marisha: Fine, I'll just see if this fucking door is open. That's all I can do right now.
Matt: The one across the way?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Sorry, guys, excuse me. Sorry, excuse me.
Matt: You push past everyone. You push on the door. It opens up and reveals a long dining room, a big, thick dining room table, a double window across the way. This is the house's dining room. There are two double doors across the way that lead into what you think is the foyer, in which Grog and Trinket currently stormed through. And you can hear, muffled through the door in the distance, the sound of combat and impact and people shouting to each other.
Marisha: Okay, can I cross over to that window and look out the front window? The window over here?
Matt: I'll say you can get that far, and you can just crest and look out the window if you want to.
Marisha: Do I see any fire from Scanlan?
Matt: From this point, you've already checked once. You're just getting in there. You won't be able to really see from here.
Marisha: That's my turn.
Matt: That brings us to the top. Percy, you're up.
Marisha: Oh, yeah. Can I call him? Can I, (whispering) "Scanlan. Scanlan!"
Matt: You make a little bit of a calling noise. You hear nothing back. You fear you might be just out of range for it.
Marisha: Son of a bitch. All right.
Taliesin: I'm going to make a run for the door.
Matt: Okay. You can get to there. You're just at the edge of it. Do you want to try and knock it open?
Taliesin: Is it open? Can I open the door?
Matt: You can try to. You reach out. (creak) It opens up and you can see now, a light comes pouring through from the foyer, and you can hear much louder now, the sound of combat, and Grog chuckling, and swings and impacts. You can see a couple of crossbow bolts go (boof) and scatter across the ground.
Taliesin: I would have to use my action to move?
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: You know... (sighs) Yeah, this is going to be worthwhile. I'm going to-- well... (laughter)
Matt: What are you doing?
Taliesin: I hate you.
Matt: What are you doing?
Sam: Kill things.
Marisha: Shoot out the window.
Taliesin: Shoot out the window?
Laura: Just act on the fly like Scanlan did. It turned out okay.
Matt: Do your thing, Percy. Do your thing. What are you doing?
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to be helpful. I'm going to burn my action to get into the room.
Matt: Okay. Where do you want to get on this side?
Taliesin: Right there.
Matt: Right there?
Taliesin: Yeah, I want to stand right there.
Matt: Okay, so you just swing around (fwwwt) to the inside. You look up and immediately you see this curved banister and a whole row of guards up top with heavy crossbows. In the center, you can see some blur as Grog, Trinket, and some individual are in the middle of this tussle. The individual currently has Grog grasped by the throat.
Taliesin: How crazy-- I don't know if I can do Minor Illusion that way right now. So I'm going to call Hex on that first guard there.
Matt: Which one? Right there?
Taliesin: Yep.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to burn my action surge, and I'm going to start taking my shots, and I'm just going to work my way up.
Matt: Okay, so you swing around the corner and look up at the one guard. As you concentrate for a second, bringing your gun up, your eyes begin to go black again, the smoke pouring out from the corner of it. Smoke begins to pour out of the midsection of the guard, who looks confused for a second, and it swirls around him as part of the Hex that has him marked, as you release your next three blasts.
Taliesin: Okay. This is with sharpshooter.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: That sucks. Ten?
Matt: Ten misses. First shot just (ricochet noise) goes wide, blasting a chunk out of the upstairs hallway.
Taliesin: 11.
Matt: 11 also goes wide. This time (ricochet noise) blasting part of the banister in front. The guard dodges out of the way as the wood splinters past him.
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Marisha: That's better!
Matt: That's the Percy we know. (laughs)
Taliesin: And so since that was a third shot, it was also a bonus shot, so that's got an extra-- okay! Does that mean that everything gets doubled?
Matt: All dice gets doubled, and then you add the modifier.
Taliesin: Not the modifier, though?
Matt: Not the modifier, no.
Taliesin: Modifier stays the same.
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: Roll twice, or just double my die?
Matt: Double the die. It's faster.
Taliesin: Okay, so that's-- I should have just used my--
Sam: What device?
Taliesin: I know! I should have just used it.
Marisha: That's not bad, though.
Taliesin: Nine, 13, 26. 42 points of damage.
Matt: 42 points of damage?
Taliesin: And four of that was fire damage.
Matt: And four of that was fire damage? Okay. As you look up, (doosh) the first two shots fire and go wide. The third one, (explosion noise) just explodes and in a blast of black smoke, the guard's head is no longer across his shoulders. (cheering)
Taliesin: Okay, I move the black cloud to the next guard. He also gains disadvantage on all-- let's make it dexterity saving throws.
Matt: Ability checks.
Taliesin: Ability checks, yeah, so all dex checks.
Matt: So the smoke (whoosh) pours off the body and coalesces around the next guard to his right. All right, that ends your turn.
Taliesin: That's the end of my turn.
Matt: Vax.
Liam: All right, I've got double speed. I go right towards the table, make an acrobatics check to slide my ass across it--
Sam: Are you doing what I did?
Matt: Do an acrobatics check.
Marisha: Yes! Dukes of Hazzard!
Liam: Yeah. That is a 23?
Matt: You (shhht) slide to there.
Sam: You did it so much cooler than me! (laughter)
Liam: I want to slide into a crouch right behind-- I don't want to go that far. Right by Percy, because I can't go much further, I don't think.
Matt: At double movement?
Liam: Would I be able to make it to Grog and his friend? If I can't make it to Grog, I want to stay at the door. If I can make it to Grog, I want to go to Grog.
Matt: Slide will give you movement. Yeah, you can get next to him.
Liam: I don't want to go next to him, I want to go and eviscerate the bowels of the fucker who's fucking with him.
Matt: Okay, so right there?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. Yeah, you can get up there.
Liam: Sneak attack because he's engaged with Grog.
Matt: Correct.
Liam: So here comes the total.
Marisha: As he slides over the table in front of me, I go, "That was pretty awesome. Bye. Good luck."
Liam: All right, so...
Sam: You need some daggers?
Liam: No.
Matt: More daggers!
Liam: Wait. So. I'm alive! Rogue rules--
Matt: Whatcha doing?
Laura: What are you doing?
Liam: Oh, I'm stabbing the guy three times! I'm doing my catchphrase, man. Dagger, dagger, dagger! Oh, he's already taken a turn in combat, okay. So. I'm going to use luck on that first attack and go again-- ooh, and I'll use the first one. So the first one was an 8 plus... 19 on the first?
Matt: 19 hits.
Liam: All right. Second is a 19?
Matt: Hits.
Liam: Third is 23.
Matt: All three hit. Go ahead and roll damage. Sneak attack on the first one.
Liam: All right, first one, I'm going to use my Flametongue. It's two plus... nine. And here comes the juice. Nine, 13, 17, 18, 20, 23, 25? That's the first one, and then second attack is three. This is the keen dagger, that's a ten. And the third attack is the Flametongue again for seven.
Matt: Seven. Okay, gotcha. So you (fwoosh) dart in a blur of darkness. You come swinging up. You can see Tylieri is currently grasping Grog. Out of the corner of his eye, just sees the movement and looks over curiously as the blade is immediately in his side. (pained scream) And now you can see the jowls shake from the impact of the dagger blow, and he looks down angrily at you, fangs bared as the two other attacks hit his side.
Liam: Yeah, I'm looking him right in the eye as I do that, too.
Matt: At the end of your turn, he uses two of his legendary actions--
Liam: I'm wearing my helmet, my shiny helmet.
Matt: I know. To look at you, reach up with the throat that he's grasped, and sink his fangs directly into your throat, Grog.
Travis: (angry noise) I have a little collar. Does that help at all?
Matt: Not in this moment. You have a big neck. Very big neck, and a very tiny collar. (laughs) That will be a 20 to hit?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: All righty. So you take nine points of piercing damage.
Travis: Is that halved?
Matt: That is halved. Yeah. So say five, round up.
Travis: Sure.
Matt: However, you do take 14 points of necrotic damage. That is not reduced. But your maximum hit points are now reduced by 14.
Travis: Got it.
Matt: As you feel that same similar cold feeling as the life blood's being drained out of your body and you see his eyes cresting at you with this wild glare. That ends your turn, Vax?
Liam: Yeah, that's it.
Matt: It is now his turn.
Sam: Spider-man?
Matt: Yeah, now he's taking his turn. He's now going to go ahead and make another bite attack on you again. As he pulls back and reaches his forearm and grabs the other side of your throat, going for the other side of the jugular.
Travis: Isn't this a Grog buffet?
Matt: That's a natural one, though. (cheering)
Sam: Oh, because you've got your necklace on.
Matt: However, he does have advantage on you because you used your reckless strike.
Sam: Never use reckless strike again.
Liam: Doesn't it cancel out after one roll? Advantage versus disadvantage is one roll, right?
Travis: It ended on the first attack, right?
Matt: It was a one on the first attack, yeah. It's until your next turn. Attacks against you get advantage.
Travis: Oh, I thought his first bite was the first one.
Sam: Wait, so all attacks, even follow-up attacks get advantage, even though he only gets advantage on the first one?
Matt: I'll read it for you right now. It's a cool ability when you're not the only tank in the room.
Sam: No, it is not! It's the worst ability ever.
Laura: It's a good ability if you're only fighting one person.
Matt: Yeah, but attack rolls against you have advantage until your next turn.
Liam: Because he's out of it. He's going cuckoo.
Sam: Wait, did you not have-- Jesus, never use that thing again.
Travis: I'm using it every time. (laughter)
Matt: Doing so gives you advantage on melee weapon attack rolls using strength during this turn. So yes, I apologize. It does give you advantage on all of your attacks. I misread that.
Travis: (quietly) Oh, shitfuck. (louder) That's okay. That's okay!
Liam: Stuff happens. Give him a bonus 15 HP or something.
Matt: That's okay. Yeah, it's fine. But going forward, good to know. So it does give you advantage on all of your attacks.
Travis: Copy that.
Matt: It's the first attack is the one that confused me on the way it was worded. Sorry, folks. I know better now. But for that, I say the one stands as retribution for me forgetting the rule. (cheering)
Matt: So he goes in to strike for the bite. This time, however, he does manage to catch the chainmail coif that Scanlan had made you. His fangs get caught on the chain. (grunts)
Travis: Like making out with braces.
Matt: He pulls away, releases you-- no, doesn't release you. As he's holding you there, he's going to go ahead and make a claw strike across your face. Two and, oh. That'll be a 19.
Travis: That does hit.
Matt: He does hit? Okay. You take eight points of slashing damage, reduced to four because of your rage. That ends his turn. Grog, you're up now.
Travis: Am I still grappled?
Matt: You're still grappled, yeah.
Travis: I'd like to try and break the grapple.
Matt: Okay, so you use your action to try and break the grapple. So athletics roll of?
Travis: 22.
Matt: Yeah, you (boof) just shove him off without a problem.
Travis: Awesome.
Matt: You still have your bonus action to strike, if you like.
Travis: Can I use my bonus action to try and grapple him back?
Matt: Not as a bonus action, unfortunately. It's an action to do that.
Travis: I will attack, yeah. Just one, right? (whoosh)
Matt: One strike, yeah.
Travis: Okay. Fuck yes! 21?
Matt: 21 does hit, yeah.
Travis: Awesome! And that is badass. Nine, 17. 22. 22 with the fire damage.
Matt: 22 damage. All right. (whack) And you're watching, as he does all these actions, you see his body begin to reform and the wounds beginning to heal themselves in the vampiric manner. But as soon as that wound begins to sew up, you take your hammer and (boof) slam it into him again, reopening, and you can see now parts of his muscles are exposed, a deep purplish color, this very unnatural interior to his flesh. You can see it burn as the flames cauterize the edges of the wound. Awesome. Does that finish your turn? Do you want to move at all?
Travis: I'm staying. Is Trinket still behind me?
Matt: Trinket is currently flanking the guy.
Travis: Yeah, no. I'll stay.
Matt: Okay, that brings us to the guards' turn. They all reload their crossbows. These four are now going to make shots at you, Percy. These three are going to take shots-- all five of these guys are going to take shots at Grog now. They're trying to take you down so they can move onto the next target. So four shots on you, Percy. That is 20?
Taliesin: That hits.
Matt: 18?
Taliesin: That hits.
Matt: 20?
Taliesin: That hits.
Matt: And 11.
Taliesin: That does not hit.
Matt: Okay, so you take from three heavy crossbow bolts at you. Seven, 19, 32 points of piercing damage. All three bolts stick into your chest. They're big, long, thick, heavy crossbow bolts. One of them gleans off your shoulder and catches the edge of the wall, but the other two have actually sunk into your torso and are sticking out of you. The other five against you, Grog.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Since you did not do reckless strike last time, they are not with advantage. That is 19?
Travis: Hits.
Matt: 12?
Travis: Misses.
Matt: Oh, that's a 25.
Travis: Hits.
Matt: That is a 19?
Travis: Hits.
Matt: Last one is a 24.
Travis: Yep, so four out of the five.
Matt: Yep. That's 11 plus seven. 18.
Travis: 18.
Matt: Plus eight. 25.
Travis: 26.
Matt: Plus 13. So 39.
Travis: 39. Half.
Matt: 18.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: 18 points of piercing damage again. Bolts are sticking out of your body all over. You almost have additional armor from the number of bolts that are on your body, but you're still standing there, frothing at the mouth, angry, just like, "Come at me!" That ends the guards' turn. They all reload their bolts and pull their crossbows up. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Yay! Can I get up to the doorway? Tell me that I can.
Matt: With a dash, you can, yeah.
Laura: But I don't get any action, then.
Matt: Unfortunately, no.
Laura: Damn it!
Travis: Janet.
Laura: Damn it, Janet! All right, Trinket's just going to try to claw him.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead. Two attacks from Trinket.
Laura: Yep.
Liam: Make it good.
Sam: Come on, you're my favorite bear, Trinkie.
Laura: That hits him. That definitely hits him.
Liam: 16 plus a lot.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Oh, yeah, that hits him.
Laura: A natural 20! (cheering)
Liam: A natural 20! (cheering)
Travis: (laughs) Trinket got a natural 20?
Matt: All right, so damage on the first strike?
Sam: That was a critical "rawrl."
Laura: 11 for the first, and then--
Travis: So sour it was sweet.
Liam: Three plus seven is ten. 20? Which part doubles?
Laura: Just the dice doubles?
Matt: The dice doubles, yeah.
Laura: 13 for the second attack.
Matt: So a total of 23 damage? All right.
Laura: 24 damage.
Matt: 24 damage. How does Trinket want to do this? (cheering)
Laura: He really just killed a vampire?
Liam: Is this a first?!
Taliesin: This is a first.
Travis: I think it's Trinket's first kill.
Marisha: Trinket!
Laura: Trinket claws crosswise and takes off his head with a bite.
Matt: Okay. So as Trinket reaches down, (whoosh) arcing both claws across his back, Tylieri is dropped to his hands and knees, looks up as Trinket then puts his jaws down over the head and lifts up. As you see the flesh begin to tear on his body, he screams out in pain as the body (fluttering sound) turns to mist.
Laura: Damn it! He's a vampire!
Liam: Wait, is the mist there?
Matt: The mist is there, yeah. There's a clump of mist where he once was.
Liam: Somebody light a match!
Marisha: I'm coming!
Laura: So the head disappears from his mouth, or did he still get a big taste?
Matt: There's still some thick, purplish, congealed blood in his mouth, but the vampire's form has been forced to mist at zero hit points. All right, that brings us to Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay! So seeing Vax go over the table and being like, "That was cool," I'm also going to be like (grunts) over the table. I'm going to join the Dukes of Hazzard train.
Matt: Acrobatics check.
Marisha: Damn it. That's not bad!
Matt: It's not a huge difficulty.
Marisha: Acrobatics? 17?
Matt: 17, yeah. You jump up (shh) slide across, land across. The bonus there is that it takes only one block of movement to get across. That's five foot there.
Marisha: So I'm going to come in and I see a headless dude with mist swirling around him?
Matt: No, you just see Grog, Vax, and Trinket in the center of this foyer, with a big cloud of mist near Trinket and Grog, and an entire array of guards with heavy crossbows trained down on the three of them in this ambush pit.
Sam: Would she know what it was?
Laura: Yeah, you would! We've learned about vampires. We know they turn into mist.
Liam: Yeah, the vampires down by the tree did this. They misted in.
Travis: Sunlight that shit.
Laura: Sunbeam!
Marisha: Someone could yell at me to do it.
Taliesin: (shouts) Sunlight!
Matt: I would say... make an intelligence check.
Marisha: Okay. This one.
Sam: Ooh, that's the intelligent dice.
Taliesin: Yes, it is.
Marisha: Yes, it is. Just with my modifier?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Wait, is this a saving throw? Just my modifier, so 17.
Matt: 17. Okay. I'd say, given the circumstance right now, just rushing in and seeing mist there and people with things, you have no idea that's a vampire, you have no reason to believe that's a vampire, you just know that right now there is-- I'm just being honest here! You walk in the room and there's a little bit of mist on the ground and there's a bunch of guards up there. It looks like there's a threat of a bunch of guards in the room.
Travis: Identify it. It's a vampire.
Laura: You know it now.
Matt: (laughs) Grog, in the middle of a frenzied rage, would not have that--
Taliesin: I would have enough to point and say-- oh, for the love of god. Okay, fine.
Matt: Keyleth, take your turn.
Laura: Oh, man.
Matt: No more metagaming. Take your turn. What do you want to do?
Travis: What are you doing?
Marisha: Well, I know what I want to do, but I can't do it without feeling guilty! I was going to Sunbeam this bitch.
Matt: It only makes sense. I'm just saying.
Marisha: What makes sense? That I wouldn't know?
Matt: That you wouldn't know that that little bit of mist on the ground there is a vampire. There's no way that Keyleth would know that based on the way you--
Liam: Just missed it.
Matt: Yeah, you just missed it.
Marisha: I would just see a black mist?
Matt: It's just a mist.
Travis: We've got a ton of other people in the room, though.
Matt: And there's black smoke around one of the guards up there.
Marisha: Well, if I saw a black mist, what I would probably do, realistically, is think it was some sort of poison shit and I would Wind Wall it. So I'm going to (goosh) Wind Wall that mist.
Matt: Okay. All righty. Let's see. (laughs) This should actually be pretty interesting.
Marisha: (weakly) It's what I would assume it was, but I might be aiding it in getting away.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: This is bullshit.
Matt: All right, so. You put a Wind Wall up (fwoosh) in this area. You can see the mist dissipates for a second and holds its place. However, this Wind Wall is now currently held up in this area. That's your action.
Marisha: I Wind Wall it to keep, essentially do the Wind Wall--
Matt: Here?
Marisha: Yeah, around Grog.
Matt: Right at this area?
Marisha: Yeah, I'd want to protect him from the crossbows.
Matt: Okay. So there's just wind rushing up around. You can see the tapestries on the walls are flickering around.
Marisha: And then I once again go, "Scanlan! Scanlan!"
Matt: There's a little bit of crackling through. You're right at the cusp of the distance on these communicators. Scanlan, you hear bits and pieces. At this point in time right now, you're--
Sam: I'm on the roof?
Matt: You're hearing crackling in your ear, but you're still on the roof doing the chaos, so you haven't heard anything really coming through, at this point.
Laura: "Doing the chaos."
Matt: You're going to stay right there?
Sam: I'm doing this thing.
Matt: Yeah, you're trust-falling off the roof.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm going to back into the corner and keep this Wind Wall up.
Matt: Okay, just concentrating on the Wind Wall. That brings us up to Percy.
Taliesin: I take my next shot at the next crossbow bugger.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: That's 15?
Matt: 15? Just misses.
Taliesin: God damn it.
Matt: It hits the armor and it (ricochet noise) ricochets off.
Marisha: So am I encapsulating the mist in my Wind Wall? I'm kind of trapping the mist in?
Matt: The Wind Wall itself is not a full circle, it's just a semi-circle.
Marisha: A half-circle, yeah, but is it stuck in the wall?
Matt: It's currently overlapped with it, yeah.
Marisha: Okay.
Taliesin: That's 22.
Matt: 22 to hit?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Hits.
Taliesin: It hit. That's 18 points of damage.
Matt: All righty. And you have your third attack.
Taliesin: My third attack, also on him, is also 22.
Matt: That hits, as well.
Taliesin: And that's-- ooh, that sucks. Two points of ice damage plus 11 points of normal damage.
Matt: 13 total. Okay. So (doosh) the last two blasts hit him, and you can see, he almost gets thrown off his feet from the impact. There's now blood trickling out from under his helmet from where one of the blasts got his chin. One into his chest. He's still standing up, barely, and he's still confused by this smoke that's swirling around him. Are you going to stay where you are?
Taliesin: I'm going to take a step forward.
Matt: Right there?
Taliesin: Up the stairs.
Matt: Up the stairs. Okay.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Just ominously stepping up the stairway. I like it. That brings us to Vax.
Liam: Right, so I'm going to start rushing up the stairs. Before I do, I'm going to spank Grog as hard as I can on the ass and say, "Kill!" And run up the stairs at the first guy who's enveloped in Percy's smoke and start stabbing him.
Matt: Okay. He's up above the banister, so you probably have to--
Liam: There's no balcony?
Matt: No, the idea is the banister rides up and there's a wall along it, and then they're all up on the second floor here looking down at this.
Liam: So there's no way up there?
Matt: You could leap up. Make an acrobatics check to leap up and over the banister.
Liam: That's what I'll do. Yeah, that's good. That's 30.
Matt: Yeah, you jump, grab it, flip over, land on the balcony next to the guy enveloped in smoke.
Liam: And I stab him.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: Okay. Did the leaping take any of my actions? It's movement?
Matt: No, it's part of your movement.
Liam: Okay, so that's 22.
Matt: 22 hits.
Liam: And a 16. And a one.
Matt: First two hit.
Liam: Yeah, okay. The first one is the Flametongue dagger. That is four plus six is ten. And the second one is the keen dagger, and that is two plus seven is nine.
Matt: All right. As you rush up, the guard looking at you, confused, the smoke swirling around him. (stabbing sounds) As the first two daggers stab in, the second one actually finds between his ribs up to where his heart is, and you see him gasp for a second as he crumples beneath your grip, and you slide the blade out as he crumples to the ground.
Liam: That's the button.
Matt: (laughs) That is the dead button. All right. That ends your turn. Tylieri--
Sam: Wait, he's still alive?
Laura: He's a mist.
Matt: All right, the mist pushes past. He's going to use some action to move.
Laura: He pushes past the Wind Wall? But it says that figures caught in a gaseous form can't pass through the Wind Wall. In the spell.
Marisha: That it does.
Laura: I just read it.
Marisha: That's my motherfucking Wind Wall!
Laura: So it's going to screw up my arrows, so I was checking in. But yeah, it also says, "creatures in gaseous form can't pass through it."
Sam: Why would they even have a hypothetical for that?
Liam: Because of this!
Marisha: Because of this!
Taliesin: Because of this!
Taliesin: Because of the things right here.
Marisha: It's coming in handy.
Liam: Thanks, Mike Mearls!
Matt: However, as part of that, then Trinket is also in the Wind Wall, as well, just as a note. So Trinket will be taking bludgeoning damage for being within it. So just as a heads-up. In fact, right now, have Trinket make a strength saving throw.
Marisha: Sorry.
Laura: It's okay.
Sam: Is it like a hurricane or something?
Marisha: It's a wall of wind.
Laura: Eight?
Matt: Okay. Trinket takes 3d8 bludgeoning damage.
Marisha: How much?
Matt: Go ahead and roll 3d8.
Liam: 3d8. Up to 24.
Sam: Whoa.
Matt: Yeah. I thought you were capturing him inside. I didn't realize you had it actually on him, and so having the Wind Wall on him to prevent him from moving would also have Trinket in it, yeah.
Marisha: It could be worse. That's six plus four, so ten.
Liam: He's had worse. He'll be fine.
Laura: Yeah. Okay.
Matt: All right, so that will make it actually more here. So Tylieri cannot break through. Tylieri stays there in mist form, being caught in the whirlwind. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I'm up?
Matt: Yep.
Travis: Well, I can't get through the-- I mean, I don't know what the fuck--
Marisha: You can get through the Wind Wall.
Travis: What am I going to do to gas? Hit it? Can I start running up the motherfucking stairs and jump up like Vax did? He said to kill!
Matt: All right, yeah. You can get up to there, and you're just within reach to get one guy over the banister, probably.
Travis: Yeah! I'd like to do that. That's a 23.
Matt: That hits. More attacks?
Travis: Yes. Oh, how many attacks do I get?
Matt: All of them. That was just your movement.
Travis: Yay, I get all of them?! That's amazing.
Matt: Your barbarian 40 feet of crazy movement.
Travis: Yay! 22!
Matt: Yep.
Travis: Shit! 12.
Matt: 12 does not hit.
Travis: (laughing) Okay.
Matt: (laughs) The first two hit.
Travis: 13. 17 for the first one.
Matt: All right, 17 damage.
Travis: 15, and 17 again. Two plus two.
Matt: Nice. All right, so (whack) the hammer comes streaking down, slamming into the guard there. His crossbow shatters from the impact and the flames begin to lick up the front of his body. The second slam smacks him again. This time, you hear the armor ring out from the metal-on-metal impact. He kind of shakes from it. The third time you're just in the middle of this series of swinging and he backs up, and you end up smashing the banister instead of him, the hammer cracking part of the ground on the second floor. He looks pretty messed up from that series of attacks. All right, that ends your turn, Grog. It's now the guards' turn.
Travis: Come at me, bro.
Matt: This guard's going to move over here. They're all like, "Oh god." These three here are going to attempt to fire on Trinket through the Wind Wall. These two are going to fire at you, Grog, and these two are going to longsword you. They pull out their longswords. This one's going to turn with his crossbow and fire at you, Vax. So first is the attack at you with the crossbow. That is a 20?
Liam: Oh, yeah, that hits.
Matt: You take-- ooh, that's a ten-- 13 points of piercing damage as the bolt strikes you right in the chest, cracking your sternum a little bit. You're like, (groans) that's going to suck. You feel the scraping of the bone as it impacts. The two with the longswords against you, Grog.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: That is 18?
Travis: Misses.
Matt: That is a 12.
Travis: Misses!
Matt: Both of the blades come at you. One of them actually hits your shoulder, but it just sticks an inch into the flesh, and you just flex and the blade pops out. The second one swings out and you duck your head out of the way and it (whoosh) goes long and you just grin through the anger. That's awesome. Then these two are going to fire crossbows at you, Grog. That is going to be a 15?
Travis: Misses.
Matt: And a 23.
Travis: Damn, I was almost Neo, just dodging all sorts of shit.
Matt: Another ten. 13 points of piercing damage.
Travis: Halved to seven?
Matt: Half that to seven, yeah. And then now the three aiming at Trinket. They all have disadvantage, I believe?
Laura: Nothing can shoot through the Wind Wall.
Matt: Nothing can shoot through it at all?
Laura: Arrows can't go through it, it said.
Matt: At all?!
Travis: She said begrudgingly.
Laura: Which fucking sucks.
Marisha: Well, I mean, it's going to save a bear, right? After I punched him with the wind.
Sam: Yeah, and also kill the bear.
Matt: Yeah, they automatically miss. They all three fire through. All bolts just (shhh) get scattered across the room.
Laura: Yeah, it goes straight up to the roof, it says.
Matt: Wind Wall. That's awesome.
Laura: Does the Wind Wall go all the way up to the ceiling, or does it go to a certain height?
Marisha: 15 foot high.
Matt: 50 feet long, 15 feet high. So it doesn't go all the way to the ceiling. In fact, it gets just a little bit past the second floor, so it's about the height of the guys on the second platform. That ends their turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to tell Trinket to get out of the Wind Wall.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: The Wind Wall gets an attack of opportunity. (laughter)
Laura: Well, he's going to move.
Matt: He goes to the front door.
Laura: And he's going to be very happy to see me come around the corner of that door.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Where I will see a bunch of dudes up high, and I want to try to do Conjure Barrage up and over the Wind Wall and in an arc downward on everybody on the other side of it.
Matt: Interesting. Okay.
Laura: It's like a (whoo, boom).
Travis: A half-pull.
Matt: Yeah, which at this short distance, is not a lot of strength to get the lob.
Laura: I'm a really skilled archer. I'm kind of like Legolas.
Matt: But if you're shooting up this way? The Wind Wall itself only really encompasses the bottom of the foyer, so if you go up the stairs a little bit, you will be able to get these guys here.
Laura: Can I get up there?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Oh, yeah! Fuck yeah, I'll do it and try to get everybody in that cone. Sorry, guys.
Travis: Nope. Make it rain.
Matt: Yeah, you're going to hit all of them.
Travis: Just go for it. I'm a fan of one-dollar bills.
Liam: I can take it.
Laura: Okay. Wait, I've got to see how this works. I just throw it in the air and it turns into a cone.
Matt: Yep.
Laura: So I don't have to attack?
Matt: They should have a saving throw, I believe, right?
Laura: Yeah, they have a dexterity saving throw.
Matt: Everyone make a dexterity saving throw. Or at least you two.
Liam: Yeah.
Travis: Do I have advantage-- I don't know.
Laura: I'm casting this as a 3rd-level.
Matt: One guy makes the saving throw.
Liam: 25.
Travis: 20.
Matt: You all succeed. One of the villains makes it, and they both make it. Is it half-damage, right?
Laura: What about all those guys up at the top?
Matt: That's what I'm saying. This guy made it, these two didn't.
Laura: What about the other ones?
Matt: Are you doing it from this perspective? These will go through the Wind Wall, so the Wind Wall itself will prevent it from getting to either. This guy will probably be hit, actually.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: He fails. So yeah, these guys are unaffected because the Wind Wall prevents the barrage from that point. So just go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: So I can't get a critical hit on this because I don't have to roll?
Matt: Correct.
Travis: That's good.
Laura: 16, am I right? 16. Okay.
Matt: 16 damage?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right, so it's half that for saves, right?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right, so eight damage, four damage.
Liam: Oh, uncanny dodge.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Half that. So what did you give me for damage?
Taliesin: You had eight.
Liam: Eight? That's four.
Laura: And then as a bonus action, I'm going to Hunter's Mark. Who looks the strongest?
Travis: Me.
Laura: Not you.
Matt: (laughs) They're all pretty standard. There's one dude over here that appears to be commanding them.
Laura: Yeah, I want to hit him!
Matt: Okay, you Hunter's Mark him. All righty. He is Hunter's Marked. All righty. By the way, the guy that Grog had slammed? The barrage (arrow impact) riddles him with arrows and he falls over and is like (gasps) and crumples to the ground. The last bit of health that he had.
Travis: You took away my playmate!
Matt: Vex, that's the end of your turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. So I'm going to keep maintaining this Wind Wall and wrap it up around the mist to double-enforce it, and I'm going to scream, "What is this?"
Laura: I don't know!
Matt: All right, and then what are you doing?
Taliesin: "It's a vampire!" I'm putting my gun away, anyway.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Does that count?
Liam: It's a vampire. We just killed him. Sort of.
Matt: Be warned  treading thin ice with metagaming with your DM going forward, but yes. You have now heard it from Percy.
Marisha: I'm not metagaming! I'm legitimately asking whether this counts!
Matt: I know. That's fine. This counts, it's fine. You heard Percy say, "Vampire!"
Taliesin: Vampire!
Laura: Vampire!
Marisha: (weakly) Oh! Great!
Taliesin: What's that charisma score, again? Where is it?
Sam: And we fade to black.
Laura: Drop your fucking Wind Wall so I can hit something!
Marisha: I'll drop the Wind Wall and cast Sunbeam and, eyes flashing, light just (goom), right in the concentrated beam where I have this mist there.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: And stuff.
Marisha: And stuff.
Matt: Okay. Yeah, that will be considered direct sunlight. As you release the Wind Wall, the mist immediately begins to push its way this way out of the room. However, you catch it, your eyes glow, and as you release your hand forward, a blast of pure sun energy shoots forth from your hands. You see it burning the back wall like a big, thick laser, and as the mist tries to escape, you catch up to it, and you hear this faint, echoing, screeching cry as the mist immediately is evaporated on impact. (explosion noise)
Laura: Can we loot the mist?
Travis: (laughs) "Can we loot the mist?"
Matt: You can fill a pocket with ash, if you like.
Travis: Come on, at least some coins falling?
Laura: (ding ding ding) Like Scott Pilgrim? Oh, look! Coins. (laughs)
Marisha: That's my turn.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: Wait, can you use your bonus action to wink at Matt to ask for forgiveness?
Marisha: Why do I have to ask for forgiveness?!
Matt: Percy, you're up.
Marisha: I can use my bonus action to heal somebody, if someone wants it. Actually, how about this? I used my bonus action to ask what the shit was this.
Matt: There you go.
Marisha: Does that make you feel better?
Matt: Sure.
Taliesin: What's the damage on my rapier, again? Was it 1d10 plus--
Matt: 1d8. It's a plus-one rapier, so it's 1d8 plus your dexterity modifier, plus one, so it would be plus seven for you.
Taliesin: Okay. Then in that case, I'm going to bring my Hex up to the very next--
Matt: Right there?
Taliesin: And I'm going to put my gun away, walk up to him, and begin stabbing.
Matt: All right. One, two, three, four, five. At that height you're going to have to leap up onto the second floor to get to him.
Taliesin: Oh, that's right.
Matt: Yeah, so go ahead and make an acrobatics check, if you want.
Taliesin: I'm just going to walk up, not quite that close, but one step back.
Matt: Okay, so there?
Taliesin: Take my next three shots.
Matt: Walk up the stairs. Go for it.
Taliesin: That's 21.
Matt: Hits.
Taliesin: That's 23.
Matt: Hits.
Taliesin: I'm going to stop there in case that kills him.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: Actually, I had to reload anyway.
Matt: So there you go. So your third attack is to reload.
Taliesin: All three was reload, attack, attack.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: So that's 16.
Matt: 16. All righty.
Taliesin: 14.
Matt: (gunshot) He is blasted out of place. You can see there's a gaping hole across where one of his lungs was located, and he (groans) crumples to the ground into a pile.
Taliesin: Okay, I move the mist to the next guy.
Matt: All righty. You use a bonus action to re-curse him, by the way.
Taliesin: I had a bonus action, so I just used it.
Matt: That's right, you do. Technically, you used the bonus action this turn to put it onto him from the last turn.
Taliesin: Did I? You're technically correct, so go ahead.
Matt: You're probably going to do it on your next turn, anyway, so we'll just leave it there. It's fine. But keep that in mind, as this is a new ability.
Liam: (sneezes)
Matt: Gesundheit.
Laura: Bless you.
Marisha: Bless you.
Matt: All right. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Is that fellow who's enveloped in schmutz right next to Grog?
Matt: Yep.
Liam: Yeah, I'm going to stab him. (laughter)
Sam: Your answer for everything.
Liam: First one is not that great. It's a 14.
Matt: 14 misses.
Liam: Second one is a 26.
Matt: You are flanking him, though. You have advantage on the attack.
Liam: Oh, well let's do that again, then. We'll call that a 27 instead.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: And then the second one is now a 20, and the third one is a 26. (shunk, shunk, shunk) Two plus seven is nine for the keen dagger, and then for the life-stealing dagger is a seven, and then back to the keen dagger, that is an 11.
Laura: Don't you get sneak attack damage?
Liam: Oh, right. Yeah, I'll put that in. Thank you.
Matt: I was like, "Where's that? That's the whole point of this."
Sam: All those?! Holy crap.
Liam: Eight, nine, ten, 11, 17, 19.
Matt: (explosion noise)
Laura: Oh, no, Grog!
Marisha: Oh god, you killed Grog!
Matt: Yeah, the daggers cut through his midsection, and you see where the armor plating itself was exposed from the first strike. The last one you just jam up into his torso, taking out any major organs.
Liam: I would also like to boot him over the side as I do this.
Matt: (groans) He falls over (thudding) down the stairs, past you, Percy. You let him tumble by as he slides to a stop at the very bottom of the stairs.
Laura: I put my foot on him to stop him.
Matt: Okay, Vex stops him in place, face-down. There's a smear of his blood across the steps. This once-nice, fine wood is now completely coated in crimson. (laughs) Okay. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Is it me? (stuttering) Is it just a row of guys in front of me?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: I would like to hold my turn. Because if I stand in front of them, nobody can do anything to them.
Sam: You can.
Laura: That's nice of you. You could just go (whoosh) and cross them off.
Marisha: How many's left?
Matt: There are five nervous-looking guards right now.
Marisha: They were trying to haul ass out?
Travis: Nah, I'll hold. Whoever's next can go.
Sam: So polite.
Laura: That is really kind of you, Grog.
Matt: That ends your turn. It is now the guards' turn. They all...
Laura: Run away.
Marisha: They're going to try and flee, aren't they?
Matt: They look to each other, and their one leader goes like, "Men, run!" They all rush and leap off the balcony, try and catch themselves there.
Liam: See those acrobatics checks...
Laura: I want them all to fall, please.
Marisha: Eat it. Make them all eat it.
Matt: Okay. Three of them land fine and begin bolting forward. Two of them fall. One of them (cracking noise) breaks his ankle and falls to the ground going (scream). The other one slams into his hip on the ground and falls prone. These guys are prone. These three continue to move forward to there. They're going for a full dash.
Laura: Does Trinket get an attack of opportunity?
Matt: Against one of them. He can only take one reaction per turn. They all rush out.
Laura: That definitely hits him, though.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: 27.
Matt: 27 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: 11.
Matt: 11 points of damage. Across that guy. Okay. Trinket reaches out and strikes across one of the guys, the guy you Hunter's Marked, who takes the claw across the side of his head, and you hear him yell out in pain, (scream) as he makes it out into the rain. Hurt, but not taken down. He continues to run past, and they all dart outside into the rainstorm.
Travis: I'll take my turn now.
Matt: (laughs) Okay, Grog.
Travis: I leap over the banister with my war hammer high and jump down on the guy that's closest to me, bringing it down with a reckless attack and great weapon master.
Matt: Okay, make an athletics check for the jump.
Travis: Okay.
Sam: Oh no, don't fall on your ass.
Travis: Okay, that's true. 13.
Matt: I'll give you advantage on this because you're raging and it's reckless and it's just funnier.
Travis: That's better!
Laura: That's better!
Travis: 24.
Matt: 24, yeah. You leap in the air (whoosh) like slow-motion (whoosh, explosion) down on top. Go ahead and roll three attacks on him.
Travis: Amazing, that's 27. That's 26.
Matt: Roll damage on those.
Travis: Okay, not a problem. Ten, 19, 29 on the first one.
Matt: 29 on the first one? Okay.
Travis: (laughing) And 28 on the second one.
Matt: So as you come down, the hammer blow slams into his torso, his actual metal armor crinks inward, and he goes, (screams) gasping in pain, as you've now jammed his own ribs into his internal organs. As you pull the hammer up with a sludgy, sucking sound you see him look at you with this look of, "No!" and the hammer comes down again. This time on top of his head, which, Gallagher watermelon, just (boosh) across the floor of this. Done, you look over at his friend, who is like, (gasps) trying to back up with his broken ankle. With your third attack, he's within your range.
Laura: Oh god.
Travis: (inarticulate war cry)
Matt: With advantage.
Travis: Oh, I don't need it. That's 27.
Matt: Roll advantage just in case it's a critical.
Travis: Oh, it's the same thing. It's 27.
Matt: Okay, there you go. That hits.
Travis: I know. I haven't critted in forever.
Matt: Even if you don't need the advantage, it's nice to roll a second time in case because there's a chance of a natural 20.
Travis: That's 20, 30.
Matt: 30 points of damage on him. (whack) This one you actually bring down onto his other leg. That leg snaps.
Travis: Is he on his back?
Matt: He's on his back and he's trying to pull away from you.
Travis: Right on the knee.
Matt: Right on the knee? (crack) It snaps underneath and he screams out in pain as the hammer pulls back. You can see where the bone is jutting out. You've actually taken off the lower half of his leg from the sheer bludgeoning force, and he's now bleeding out onto the ground a little bit. Not as much as he would be, because the flame cauterized the impact from the hammer.
Sam: (pained) So detailed.
Matt: He is in a really, really bad place. All righty. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Well, I'm going to-- should I shoot at the guys running away?
Travis: Yes.
Laura: Yeah. Are they close by?
Matt: They're just out the front of the doors.
Laura: I'm going to come down and get in range.
Sam: Don't forget to tell them about Gilmore's Glorious Goods first. (laughter)
Sam: We're supposed to advertise!
Matt: (giggles) Timing is everything.
Laura: I'm going to lightning arrow because everything within ten feet is affected.
Matt: Yeah, that would hit all three. All right, you pull out your arrow. You aim it close. You can see the rain pouring down and they're all running out into the storm. You're like, "Storm, that's interesting." And you release.
Laura: 27? No, that's a lie. 19.
Matt: Against the guy you've Hunter's Marked?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah, that'll hit.
Laura: And then get the rest of them?
Matt: Yep.
Laura: So they have to make a dexterity saving throw.
Matt: Okay. This guy fails. What's the DC on it?
Laura: That's a good question.
Matt: It should be at the top of your spell sheet.
Laura: 15?
Matt: 15? Okay, second guy fails. Guy who's Hunter's Marked does succeed, so he takes half damage on it.
Laura: Okay, I'm hitting him initially, so he takes 2d8. They all take 2d8. 17, 19, plus Hunter's Mark on the first guy. They all take 19, and then the extra guy takes an extra five.
Matt: Okay. The guy that Trinket swiped just screams (pained scream) as you can see the electricity charging through him, and the wet rain that hit him has caused it to even give more--
Laura: I thought Trinket swiped the Hunter's Marked guy, though.
Matt: Did he?
Laura: He did.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I remember you saying that.
Matt: Then I'll give you that. So the guy who is Hunter's Marked ends up destroyed, the electricity bouncing through his armor. He goes, (moan) and falls to the ground and crumples over. The other two guys get jolted and almost knocked off their feet. They're both looking really, really rough, and they both look at each other (panting) and just keep running with what little strength they have left. You still have a second attack, don't you?
Laura: I do.
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: Okay. Oh, gosh. I'm going to shoot--
Sam: You're going to shoot people in the back.
Laura: No, I'm not going to shoot them in the back. The guy on the ground, he looks like he's in a lot of pain, doesn't he?
Matt: Oh, he's not going anywhere.
Laura: I'm going to put him out of his misery.
Taliesin: We don't want people running to report we're here, though.
Laura: Oh, really? So I should get the guys?
Liam: Get them, yeah!
Taliesin: No witnesses.
Travis: They might be vampires.
Taliesin: They might call vampires.
Laura: Okay. I can't lightning arrow them again, though.
Matt: No, it's a bonus action to cast it.
Laura: So I'll just regular old attack and I can only get one of them.
Liam: I yell out from the top, "Vex, no survivors!"
Laura: All right, all right!
Matt: (zoomf) Next arrow nocked.
Laura: That's a 19 again.
Matt: 19 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Okay. 13.
Matt: 13 points of damage. (zoomf) That guy is, through the back of the head, (zoomf, groan) and just slides through the mud for another two feet.
Laura: And I act like I have another, that I can attack him again. I say, "Stop!"
Matt: Make an intimidation check.
Liam: Come on, girl.
Sam: Come on, girl.
Laura: Natural 20! (cheering)
Travis: It is. It is.
Matt: Watching his friend fall and slide in the mud, he stops where he stands and looks over his shoulder, slowly turning around, shaking.
Laura: And I say, "Get inside now."
Matt: Okay. Next up is Keyleth. Are you going to do anything?
Marisha: Do I kill him or do we keep him?
Sam: You have to make that decision yourself.
Marisha: Is he coming back inside?
Laura: He's standing there now.
Matt: He's currently standing about ten feet outside in the rain, just (shaky breathing).
Marisha: Is that a window I'm up against, behind me?
Matt: Actually, no. There is no window to the front here. It's just a wall.
Marisha: I'm just going to go, "Excuse me. Excuse me, Trinket. Sorry." And I'm going to peek around the door and go (shkoof) and Sunbeam him.
Matt: You're going to Sunbeam?
Marisha: That guy. That scared-shitless guy.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. What level is Sunbeam?
Marisha: It's what I just did.
Matt: What level is Sunbeam?
Marisha: Six.
Matt: How many 6th-level spells per day can you cast?
Marisha: It's a concentration spell.
Matt: Oh, that's right! You can do it for up to a minute. Good call.
Sam: You can do that?
Marisha: It's a concentration spell. I can keep doing it for a minute.
Laura: That's so freaking cool!
Marisha: Yeah, it's pretty dope.
Sam: I can do that, too? I didn't know that. Well, not that spell, but with anything.
Matt: All right, so constitution save on him. (laughs) No. Do damage. 12.
Marisha: 16. That's 23 plus... 30 damage. Radiant damage. (lightning noise)
Matt: As he's standing in the rain, shaking, and looking at his friend, and looking at you, Keyleth steps into frame and goes, (boom). And before he can go, "Wait!" and there's just this scattering of ash that was once was his body. His armor is left intact and just tumbles to the ground in this pile. You see smoke sizzling off the now-heated armor. There's no sign of his physical body anymore, just a smattering of mud that the ash has now mixed with in the rain outside. Melt with prejudice, okay.
Travis: Got one guy left.
Matt: Now as you guys are all gathering around, we'll say from a roleplaying standpoint, as there is no real immediate threat to you; there is one guard left, who has currently one broken ankle and one missing lower half of his left leg, on the ground, looking at you all, hyperventilating and trying to back away, like (panting).
Travis: Time to call the Sandman.
Marisha: Since I'm outside on the threshold of the house, can I see where Scanlan might have lit up the other house yet?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: 17?
Matt: 17? You can see a little bit of a dark stream in the distance. You can't tell if it's a nearby chimney or if it is the symbol of Scanlan. The rainstorm does make it a little hard to see, at this point, and through the adrenaline pumping in your system, and the fact that you just disintegrated two individuals in a short period of time. You're also wrestling with the morality of that and dealing with what you just did, so your concentration doesn't enable you to notice anything yet.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Who's got questions for Peg-Leg over here?
Liam: I do. I hop down off the balcony and walk up by Grog.
Taliesin: I'm going to start exploring the upstairs.
Marisha: I stay standing outside just staring out into the distance, waiting for Scanlan's cue.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: When you see my cue, attack. (laughter)
Marisha: Yeah, I know. Which is what we were technically supposed to do.
Laura: No, we said we were waiting 30 seconds and then going in.
Sam: That was a terrible plan.
Travis: Greatest plan we've ever had. You were amazing.
Laura: You know what? You were amazing, we killed them, it was great.
Travis: I hold my hammer over his other knee and I go, "Look, we can work on you one limb at a time, or you can be very truthful and my friend can end it all very, very quickly."
Matt: (panting) "What do you want?"
Liam: There's no question, this is a bad situation you're in right now. We're not looking for you at all. I'm happy to knock you out and leave you in a closet here and lock it. If you want to help me find the Briarwoods, I really want to know where the Briarwoods are. Not you. Just the people you work for.
Matt: He looks around at the rest of the group, sees you walk up the stairs. (panting) "They're in the bloody castle, where else would they be?"
Travis: In? Or under?
Liam: That's a good question.
Matt: "I don't know. I don't know. They spend equal parts in both, as far as I know."
Laura: I peek around my brother and go, "Isn't there anyone else in the house?"
Matt: "No."
Laura: If you're lying, you'll pay.
Matt: "All of us who were here, we were waiting for you."
Laura: "Got it." I go upstairs with Percy.
Taliesin: That mist is probably following me around at this point, isn't it?
Matt: The black smoke, you mean?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Oh, yeah. The black smoke is slowly trailing behind you. With each step you take, it licks the back of your boots.
Taliesin: Oh, boy. Okay.
Liam: Is there anything else you can tell me in regards to back doors or secrets that your bosses don't want us to know? I mean, really, this is the time to talk, right now.
Travis: Anything you use to identify each other?
Matt: Go ahead and make an intimidation check. With advantage because he has--
Sam: One leg?
Marisha: One leg?
Matt: He's bleeding out right now. Wait, no, he's not bleeding out. He's bleeding, but it's a trickle because of the cauterization.
Liam: 21.
Matt: 21. He gives you a look and says, "Look. We've all been working for the Briarwoods. They mean well. They have big plans, I know that. I don't know the details of it. They don't tell us. But we're keeping guard on them. We were supposed to stop this insurrection. These people. We rounded up folks. We were given basic descriptions and we hung people against the Sun Tree as a warning. We hoped it wouldn't come to any sort of conflict, that you would take that as a means that you weren't supposed to be here. But then we all saw what happened. What happened to Sir Kerrion and his house, and that meant that you were here and that you meant business, so Tylieri and Vedmeyer, we waited for a signal. And we heard that you were planning an attack, so we set up guards here and prepared, and sure enough, you showed up. Which let us know that our contacts are good, and we thought that would be enough. We didn't realize you'd be walking in with whatever the fuck this thing is. I don't even know what you are." And he looks genuinely frightened at the fact that you, with all of these bolts sticking out of your body, are still grinning above him. "Nothing should have survived that ambush."
Liam: Let's back this up a little bit. You hung people from the Sun Tree?
Matt: "Yeah, as a warning."
Liam: "Where I saw that child?" I slit his throat.
Matt: (extended choking sounds) With a wet gurgle, the life expires from his body, a pool beginning to form on the tile below him.
Travis: Nicely done, Vax.
Liam: Piece of shit.
Laura: So Percy and I are upstairs alone?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Can I check his body?
Matt: (laughs) You begin rummaging through the body. You're keeping an eye out. Make another perception check.
Laura: I go upstairs, and I get Percy up against a wall. I turn around and slam him against a wall.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: This is sexy.
Marisha: 27.
Laura: And I look him straight in the eye--
Sam: And kiss him.
Laura: And I say, "Are you all right?"
Taliesin: I think so.
Laura: Look me in the eye, Percy.
Taliesin: I feel cruel, but in control. This is controllable, at the moment.
Laura: "All right." I'm insight-checking him.
Matt: Go for it. Roll insight.
Laura: Shit, just shit. Ten.
Matt: Ten?
Marisha: Fuck.
Matt: What's your charisma modifier?
Taliesin: My charisma modifier is two.
Matt: Okay. He's hard to read right now. His focus is divided amongst your intensity and trying to answer your question. The pause in his throat isn't because he's thinking, it's because he grasps the words to describe it, but there is a quiver to it, and you can see his hands are still shaking a little bit. And as you look down at his hands, you can also see the smoke is still slowly swirling his ankle.
Taliesin: I'm fine, for now. I'll let you know. You'll know if I'm not.
Laura: I will.
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: I follow behind him closely.
Taliesin: Let's keep looking.
Matt: Okay. You start seeing, now, the dark plume of smoke in the distance. Scanlan has apparently and effectively set the signal. You also do notice, as you're looking out, other people have left their homes now--
Marisha: And I cast my Skywrite spell-- ew, I just spit-- and I use the smoke in the distance and as it's rising up into the sky, start drawing out the de Rolo family crest in the smoke.
Matt: Okay. You begin to take the plume of smoke and filter into the dark rain clouds and you make the smoke go to a thicker, thicker black and take the next few moments to begin sculpting in the air until eventually we have a very well-defined de Rolo crest now staring down at the entire city of Whitestone.
Sam: Oh! Something's happening! Something's happening in the sky!
Marisha: That's me.
Sam: I think it's a magic wielder of some sort. Something-- I must flee! (laughter)
Matt: All right. Investigation checks from both of you.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Did I find anything on Smash-Face?
Liam: (sighs) That's what you rolled the last time.
Laura: I know!
Taliesin: 16.
Laura: I've got to put this one away for a while.
Matt: What did you roll?
Laura: I rolled a nine.
Matt: Okay. The two of you take a while upstairs looking about the rooms. You manage to acquire from just some of the local bits of cabinets and dust, you gather about 230 gold pieces.
Laura: 230?
Matt: Just loose gold pieces that are around. There is a nice jewelry box that seems to contain most of the jewels and gems that this individual likes.
Laura: I'm going to take the whole jewelry box and sort through it later.
Matt: Okay. So say a box of Tylieri's jewelry would be what you've marked down.
Taliesin: Tylieri family jewels. (laughter)
Taliesin: That won't be confusing at all.
Matt: There you go. You do notice, however, that's all you're able to find for the most part, other than some few bits of clothing and outfit. The master bedroom has no bed.
Laura: Does he sleep in a coffin?
Taliesin: We're going to finish searching downstairs and then find the entrance to the--
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I'd like to wind my way up there, as well.
Matt: Okay, as you make your way up there you notice them stepping out.
Liam: Yeah. I'm still curious. I want to go have a look as well.
Matt: Go for it. Investigation.
Laura: That's better, thank you.
Liam: 16.
Matt: 16? You look through the room. Most everything of interest has already been picked clean. This room also doesn't seem to see much use other than the clothing that's in there. This room is used for dressing and presentational purposes but other than that, as a bedroom, it's pretty useless. As you guys go downstairs, we'll say for the sake of brevity you take a little bit of time to start looking through. You know you're a little pressed for time because you can feel the energy in the town begin to rise and you start hearing noises. You keeping an eye out?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: The people that rush into the rooms are now rushing back out, some of them wearing leather tunics and small bits of armor, their weapons gathered, and they're forming small bands.
Marisha: I come over the speakers once again, the ear pieces. "I think it's time to go. Whenever you guys are ready, I want to light this bitch up."
Travis: We need to check all the rooms that go downstairs first.
Marisha: All right, quick.
Travis: "Got an empty house." I run out to the door to the left. To the uncovered areas.
Matt: Okay. You go over to this hallway. You eventually smash the door, doesn't take too long. It leads into what looks like a small study or some sort of an office room. A big blue rug, a desk with a chair, some papers strewn about.
Travis: Can I grab the rug and yank it?
Matt: Yeah, pull the rug off, reveals a hatch.
Travis: (excited shouting) I found a hatch!
Laura: (cries out in pain) No need to yell!
Travis: Oh sorry. (quieter) I found a hatch.
Taliesin: Quick, I just want to do a quick round of the downstairs room before going to the hatch.
Matt: Okay. Glancing about, you find what looks to be a general sitting area, a music room, or a place where you would host guests. Also in fair disuse. And then beyond that, you find a room that's pretty bland, with a staircase that leads down into what was once servants' quarters that has been converted into a torture room.
Laura: Oh, lovely.
Matt: It's a little nicer in its presentation and tools than the duergar torture room that you encountered in the Underdark, but this looks to be like Tylieri had a definite interest in entertaining unwanted guests.
Taliesin: Okay.
Travis: Vax or Vex, will you come check this hatch for boobies? (laughter)
Liam: I jog on down.
Matt: All right, make a perception check.
Liam: Yeah. That's a 23.
Matt: Yeah, it does not appear to be trapped.
Travis: No boobies.
Liam: Okay. You want to open that, big guy?
Travis: Yeah! (growls)
Matt: (vroom) The hatch comes up. There is no ladder; it's just a ten-foot drop down into a basement.
Travis: Okay, I jump.
Matt: Land down there. A 20 foot by 20 foot room. It's very musty. However, you do see in the far corner there is a pad of fresh earth set up, and there is a dark box.
Travis: Um.
Matt: About eight feet long.
Liam: I hear him say "Um," and I jump down, too. With the Flametongue dagger out for light.
Matt: Okay. The room lights up a little bit and you can see across the way there is a not super-detailed, but a fairly well-crafted coffin on the opposite side of the room.
Travis: Ooh! I bet there's treasure in there!
Liam: You might be right. Yeah, let's go have a look.
Laura: Is there treasure? Did you find treasure?
Liam: "Hold, please." Perception check the coffin. That's a 20.
Matt: Okay. The coffin does not appear to be trapped?
Travis: Can I open it?
Marisha: He said that with a question mark.
Matt: It's always fun to do that.
Travis: Well, should I just smash it?
Liam: I really feel like this could be--
Laura: Smash it!
Travis: Three, two. Grog smashes.
Liam: I kick it off with the end of my foot. Little bit. Or try to.
Matt: Okay. (boof) The lid flies off and then slams on the ground. A smell hits you that's just like musty old mildewed earth. The inside of the coffin is, it's lined with like a fine purplish velvet material, the smell quickly fades. It looks like there are some small baubles in there, keepsakes. There is what looks to be a cape or a cloak that is laid across the bottom of this for comfort.
Liam: Roll it up. Put it into my satchel. I'm going to take a dagger out and I want to cut all the way up through that purple velvet. Just see, just in case.
Matt: Okay. You cut through the purple velvet. Rummage through underneath. It appears to be the back of the box.
Taliesin: I'm going to check his desk upstairs for anything interesting.
Matt: Okay. Want to make an investigation check?
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Matt: As you're rummaging through the notes in the desk, a lot of them are ledgers involving the trade in and out of the city. He has his hands dabbling in elements of the timber trade, elements of the actual trade of whitestone. He talks about the-- and you understand, the reason that Whitestone itself is-- the stone that's mined here is so popular for construction and architecture and other elements is the stone that these mountains are made of, when properly prepared, there is a faint bit of residuum that is naturally ingrained in the rock here. No one really knows how it came about, but whatever it is, while it is not inherently magical, it makes it a little bit easier, faster, and cheaper to enchant the stone. So when it comes to, you know, enchanting a teleportation circle permanently somewhere or for traps or things-- not actual objects but actually enchanting anything made of stonework. It's easier to enchant, and that's why the whitestone of this area is sought after and a good trade element. So there's notes about that. But the stone trade has been halted, all stone has continued to be mined, but it's not being transported.
Travis: Is the desk made out of the stone?
Matt: No, there's just notes about it. So all the whitestone that is being mined is not being exported. It's being kept here, somewhere.
Laura: They're making something big.
Taliesin: They're making something big.
Liam: I think we need to get out of here.
Travis: I was going to ask, are you good with the coffin?
Liam: Yeah.
Travis: Okay. I smash the shit out of it, in an effort to see what's underneath.
Matt: Okay. You take about 30 seconds of extreme violence against the wooden coffin, killing it into chunks and blocks. You get the feeling that this may have been the place the mist was trying to get to. But it did not make its journey. It got scattered by druid Sunbeam and destroyed, and the coffin is left in ruins. You do-- even you, Grog-- absorb the fact that when a vampire goes to mist form, you get the feeling that this is the home it needs to come to, to try and survive.
Travis: Not anymore.
Matt: Not anymore. Not that one.
Marisha: Do I see anyone coming?
Matt: Oh. You see another zombie giant coming up the way. You can see people attacking it, it's just thrashing them about, but this one seems less bothered by the group and is now moving towards a specific area, moving towards the fiery plume in the distance. They're all gathering in that direction.
Marisha: But no one seems to be rushing towards this house?
Matt: Not at the moment, no.
Travis: This one's not on fire. Yet.
Matt: All right, you all gather, you can hear the rainstorm itself is coming down in sheets. What do you want to do?
Travis: Light this candle!
Laura: Should we light this on fire, too?
Taliesin: Burn it to the ground.
Marisha: "Everyone out." And I start casting a Flaming Sphere.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: We're out by now.
Marisha: Everyone out.
Matt: You guys all step out into the rain (whooshes) pouring down. What bits of guard blood that have been pressed against you washes off.
Travis: Aw.
Marisha: I peek in this foyer. And just (boof), right in the middle, and take a minute to move it all around.
Matt: A Flaming Sphere begins to corkscrew around this room, up over the banister, up to the upper area, and like an artist, you paint this entire room with flame until the entire interior of this main foyer is just an inferno. You can hear the flames licking and the light is very bright. You end up backing up and you can see people, unarmored folk in nearby homes that are pressed up against their windows watching this happen and whispering to each other. The children, those that are kept guarded and are not part of this rebellion, they are watching this with smiles.
Marisha: Okay, I think that's good enough. Let's go.
Taliesin: Head back to the curiosity shop.
Laura: Yeah, sneaky, stealthing.
Matt: Okay. As you guys run off into the alley behind--
Laura: Pass Without a Trace I cast on all of us.
Matt: Okay. How many more spells do you have at that level? Because you used it several times today.
Laura: Yeah, I'm fine with Pass Without a Trace. That's a 1st-level. 2nd-level, but I'm fine.
Taliesin: Back to the alcove, then?
Matt: You guys all dart off into the alley under the cover of the shadows of the storm and the rainfall, to head towards the alcove, and we'll go ahead and take a quick break. (cheering)
Matt: A quick break, I know I always say that, I'm not going to say five minutes, but.
Sam: This one's a real quick break.
Matt: We'll take it real quick because we want to try and get through as much of the story before we get to Critmas.
Laura: Critmas!
Liam: Critmas! Crimmas.
Taliesin: Oh dear god.
Travis: It's going to be a thing.
Matt: Which is going to, which is going to take some time tonight. Be back here in a few minutes guys, we'll see you in a sec.
Travis: Pizza! [break]
Matt: Welcome back. So. Jumping back into the chaos, the party has scattered back into the rainstorm. I would like everyone to make a stealth check.
Laura: Oh, right. Plus ten for everybody.
Matt: Plus ten.
Liam: I did all right.
Taliesin: I rolled my disadvantage.
Travis: Does it matter on a one?
Matt: All right.
Travis: Ten?
Matt: Total ten?
Travis: Total ten. 11.
Laura: 11, technically.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 29.
Liam: 43.
Sam: I'm not there.
Travis: 43?
Matt: Well, you're making your own stealth, though. You're invisible, so just roll twice.
Sam: Natural 20.
Marisha: 28.
Taliesin: 30.
Matt: Okay. So making up for the bounding chaos that is Grog throughout the city, you manage to still make your way largely as a group stealthed to-- are you heading to the alcove, you said?
Taliesin: That's where we had our little crash-base set up, right?
Matt: Correct. All right. You make your way to the alcove. As you're darting through, you can see in the distance small pocketed sounds of yells and the occasional sound of some sort of large-scale crumbling or crashing of wood and stone. Occasionally, darting past the streets, you see militant occupants of Whitestone: armored, rushing through, shouting orders to each other, some coming back wounded and helping their friends back. The midday rebellion has definitely started, and you get the sense that the initial surprise has been effective, but the longer this runs, the longer this wears on, the more and more of a body count this will be.
Travis: Seeing the chaos, can I get the Dust of Tracelessness and start trying to sprinkle it behind us?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Guys, we should do something.
Laura: I know, we really should.
Sam: Am I with these guys yet?
Matt: You have not, but you all meet up back at the alcove, communicating over your earpieces. You make your way to the front of the building. The doors are closed and locked.
Liam: The alcove?
Travis: Closed and locked?
Liam: I'll see about that. I'm going to check the door.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: That is ten. 23.
Matt: Okay. Seems to be a fairly simple lock.
Liam: All right.
Travis: Look for an ambush around. Can we look around?
Laura: Yeah, perceive it?
Travis: Rooftops? Sides of the building?
Matt: Make a perception check, guys.
Marisha: All of us?
Sam: Me too?
Matt: Not you, you haven't gotten there yet.
Liam: 20.
Travis: I actually rolled a 17.
Marisha: 12.
Taliesin: 24.
Laura: 26.
Matt: Okay. Looking about, there doesn't appear to be any set ambush or anybody else here. You do hear the soft sound of pacing footsteps in the interior.
Laura: Should we knock on the door?
Travis: Canvass the building.
Liam: I can get in there and see who that is. I can go in, yeah.
Laura: They're right on the inside.
Liam: I thought it was upstairs, or you said right on the other side of the door?
Laura: Right on the other side of the door.
Marisha: Oh, for crying out loud. I push past them I just go, Jordana! Jordana, it's us!
Matt: Okay, there's a pause and a voice goes, "Who's us?"
Laura: Oh. Crazy grandma!
Marisha: And Vox Machina. (quietly) Does she know we're called that?
Laura: No. I don't know. (louder) Crazy grandma was staying with you. Crazy peasants.
Marisha: Allies.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Marisha: Son of a-- nine?
Laura: Can I help?
Laura: Crazy grandma!
Marisha: Crazy grandma!
Marisha: Crazy grandma can help!
Matt: I'll say since you're backing her failure up, go ahead and make it with disadvantage.
Marisha: Hey, you don't have to call it-- that sounds so sad when you say it like that.
Laura: 18.
Matt: 18. There's a pause. "Crazy grandma? Come in." You hear the sound of a locking sound and the door opens up ever-so-slightly. A very, very dimly lit interior, there's a small lantern, a hooded lantern across the room. Other than that, you see the shadow of Jordana as she ushers you all in out of the rain.
Laura: So, hey guess what? It's started.
Matt: "Yeah, apparently." She closes the door behind you, looks out the window that has the curtains closed and goes, "Okay. So. It's underway. It's not safe to be here right now."
Laura: No.
Matt: "Did anyone see you come in?"
Laura: No, no.
Matt: "Good. Who are you?"
Laura: "Oh. Well." How about Seeming? This whole time, have we looked like crazy peasants during the battle?
Matt: No.
Travis: No.
Travis: We dropped it.
Laura: We dropped it?
Matt: You dropped Seeming before all of this.
Laura: Okay, just making sure Trinket wasn't a donkey that killed the--
Matt: No.
Taliesin: That would've been intense and awesome.
Matt: That would've been amazing. Donkey eating a vampire head? Aw, man.
Liam: This is hard to believe, but this is crazy grandma.
Laura: "I'm crazy grandma." I do a crazy eye thing just to show her.
Sam: Am I there, Matt?
Matt: You've just now gotten to that point, you see the door closing as you get there.
Sam: Hello. Hi. How'd it go?
Marisha: Good work, by the way! That was awesome! I mean, I saw the fire, I don't know what you did.
Laura: So it went well?
Sam: I set fire to the place, some shit went down, dinosaurs were harmed, but I know you got the smoke signal and used that to attack.
Marisha: The de Rolos have dinosaurs?
Sam: No, it was me. It's all good, though. I caused a ruckus, that's all I was supposed to do.
Travis: That's it, yeah.
Matt: "What is going on?"
Travis: Right.
Taliesin: We may have just started a revolution.
Marisha: Does he look familiar to you?
Liam: You don't recognize us, it's not safe to walk these streets for outsiders, so we were using a little bit of trickery. This is us. We're the same people you were dealing with before.
Travis: Vox Machina.
Laura: We just need to rest.
Matt: "Okay. You can rest here, but how long?"
Laura: Until we're healed, and then we'll go.
Liam: Overnight.
Matt: "All right."
Laura: I feel like we should get word out to somebody, though, because--
Sam: To what? To hold the revolution?
Laura: I feel like everybody's going to die before we even get to the castle!
Marisha: That's the thing. I don't know if this is the time to rest.
Laura: But we don't have any spells.
Marisha: I'm okay. We can maybe make do.
Laura: I can't make do.
Travis: You might be cool, but we're fucked.
Taliesin: How about we stay here until 4 00, 5 00 in the morning--
Marisha: What time is it now?
Matt: Right now, I'd say you're close to three in the afternoon.
Laura: How do we tell the people to like hold off?
Sam: We need to briefly quell the rebellion?
Marisha: We started something. We can't stop it now.
Taliesin: We're going to be indoors. It doesn't matter what time we go to attack the castle.
Sam: Let's spread word. We can spread word. Let's find a few--
Laura: Can we send off a message?
Marisha: We sparked a hope in people. We now have innocent peasants, people who are not fighters--
Sam: Can you Skywrite something like "attack tomorrow" or "hold"?
Laura: What if we all take off in separate directions and we tell all the peasants we find that are fighting the time that we're going to attack?
Travis: Aren't there a bunch of zombie stone giants walking around?
Laura: Well yeah, we'll have to be sneaky about it, but we'll spread the rumors around. I look at Jordana. Joanna?
Matt: Jordana.
Laura: Jordana. And I say, can you get word out to people?
Matt: "To a few, maybe. I don't want to go outside right now."
Laura: I don't blame you, dear.
Taliesin: Let's let her stay. I say we just rest up and we attack tonight.
Travis: Tonight?
Marisha: What if there isn't a town to defend tonight?
Travis: Aren't they stronger then?
Taliesin: It's going to be indoors, anyway.
Sam: First of all, it's raining outside. It's daytime. There's no vampires out there right now, right? They don't like water, do they?
Laura: No, they don't like running water, in fact they hate running water! I didn't think about that.
Marisha: It's a lot of running water, though. I think they're all right with rain.
Travis: Yeah, they said a river is what the... right?
Sam: I'm sure they don't like it. In any case, the only thing that our rebels are rebelling against right now are six zombie giants, one of whom I'm pretty sure they killed already. Did I see them?
Matt: Best you could see, that group was doing pretty well and was hacking it down. Lost a few of their number in the process.
Marisha: Did we ever get a count of how many zombie giants there were?
Sam: There were six.
Matt: There were six that you saw while you were doing your overall flight.
Laura: What, so we go out and fight zombie giants?
Sam: No, but maybe we could--
Marisha: Why not? We are the most capable people in this town right now.
Laura: Well. We could go fight zombie giants and then tell everybody to wait.
Travis: Nah, it's going to fuck us. We've got to rest.
Marisha: Why don't we take a short rest, heal up a bit, get back out there, take down some giants. What do you guys say?
Sam: I admire this fire in your eyes, but it's so stupid.
Laura: What if we run out and tell people to stop fucking fighting and wait until tomorrow?
Liam: They won't. The giants are going to keep smashing them.
Sam: What time did he say it was?
Taliesin: It's about three. We could just do a round of the front courtyard and see what's going on.
Laura: Fuck! Fine.
Taliesin: Try and sleep through the night.
Laura: All right. We fight until we absolutely can't fight anymore.
Travis: What about the people who absolutely need a short rest at the minimum stay.
Liam: We stay for an hour.
Taliesin: We're short-resting right now.
Liam: Rest for an hour.
Marisha: This is going to go on for a while, but the longer we wait indoors, the more people are going to die, and if we're killing people to try and save the masses-- which is how I'm justifying this whole thing, by the way-- I feel like we can't leave the masses to their own devices.
Sam: Wait a second, what about that, what about that cleric, the religious man that you've talked to. Could he get a message out to everybody? What's his name?
Laura: At this point, though, it's chaos.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: We literally lit the fire and we can't stop it now.
Sam: Archibald? Is that his name?
Travis: Yeah, they're standing up for themselves.
Taliesin: We also, somebody-- there's the point that somebody is informing on us.
Marisha: Someone is informing on us.
Sam: What are you talking about, why?
Taliesin: They were ready for us. They knew we were coming.
Sam: Of course they knew we were coming, we killed one of their--
Laura: They said there was an informant. They said that there was an informant when we were there.
Travis: Who did?
Laura: That guard. He said our contacts were right. Our informant was correct. Somebody is informing on us. It could be you.
Liam: I insight-check this woman.
Matt: Go ahead and roll insight.
Liam: 14.
Laura: Can I say it? Because I just said, "It could be you." Can I do the same thing?
Matt: Sure, go ahead.
Laura: All right. That's terrible. Okay. So.
Sam: What do you want to know?
Matt: Best that you can tell, she just looks genuinely scared and is uncomfortable with your presence right now but is letting it happen. She's still getting over the fact that you guys look entirely different than when you first talked to her about staying here.
Laura: Well, short rest and then we head out? We do some attacks and--
Liam: I've never fought a zombie giant before.
Laura: No, but everybody else is doing it. Those peasants are doing it.
Liam: That's what I'm saying. Let's see what we're up against. Let's take a breather and let's go pick one off.
Marisha: Jordana, do you have any books here on zombie giants?
Matt: "For the most part, necromancy is not studied in this town. At least, we never had to deal with it until recently, and we haven't had the opportunity to really study since."
Marisha: Well, I mean, zombie combined with giants. We've fought zombies and we've fought giants, so I'm assuming it with a vague--
Travis: What?
Laura: We keep our distance.
Taliesin: How long does it take to recharge Hex, by the way?
Matt: You need a long rest.
Travis: How many Sunbeam hadoukens do you have left, Keyleth?
Marisha: How many hadoukens? As in Sunbeams? I'm done on Sunbeams.
Sam: We need to rest.
Travis: If we get a short rest, how many do you get?
Marisha: I'm done. None.
Laura: We need a long rest to get spells.
Marisha: However, if I short rest, I actually haven't burnt any of my animal forms here recently and I can water elemental up, which would also permanently kill them. So I have other defenses that could still take down vampires if we encounter another one. I'm more concerned about these giants right now.
Travis: That's what I'm talking about. They're vampires.
Marisha: No, they're zombies. They're undead.
Laura: They're zombies.
Liam: They're undead.
Travis: Those are two different things, huh?
Matt: They are two very different things.
Travis: Grog learns. (laughter)
Matt: All right. So what's the plan?
Laura: We short rest and get back out.
Liam: We take a short rest and then exterminate.
Sam: Wait, join the rebellion or ride around town telling everyone, "quell?"
Marisha: We're taking down these damn giants. These giants are killing people left and right; we watched them crush people on our way here.
Taliesin: We tell them that they take cover during the night.
Travis: I'm going to roll four hit dice.
Matt: Yeah, you guys go ahead, use your hit dice to heal up while you're taking your short rest for those who've taken damage.
Laura: Oh, Trinket. Can you heal Trinket?
Marisha: I can.
Laura: Heal him so much. Does Trinket get... oh, he does get hit dice.
Matt: Trinket technically does not. Trinket requires--
Laura: It says he does. It's written down.
Matt: Hit dice?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Also, another strange question  what creates initiative? Initiative is your dexterity modifier?
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: So with me, it's my dexterity modifier. Plus two.
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: I'm also currently wearing a Headband of Initiative, which I'd forgotten about.
Matt: Which...?
Taliesin: Gives me plus two to my initiative.
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: Oh, dear god almighty. Okay. Thank you.
Matt: Percy, Percy, Percy.
Taliesin: I don't mean to be doing this.
Matt: No, it's great. Just glad you didn't take the Alertness feat. Then things would have gotten stupid.
Laura: Are you healing Trinket?
Marisha: How much more does he need?
Laura: He's at 36. He needs 24 more.
Taliesin: Actually, I'm going to be using the Hat of Disguise just because it's probably safe. Does anybody want a Headband of Initiative?
Laura: Yeah. Do you not need it?
Taliesin: I can't wear two things on my head.
Laura: I don't have anything on my head.
Taliesin: So you've got plus two to your initiative, and I'm losing plus two to my initiative. It's called a Headband of Initiative.
Marisha: You already have an eight to your initiative.
Liam: It's very mystical.
Travis: How much time do we have before the sun that is being blocked by the rainclouds goes down?
Matt: Well, you guys are taking a short rest, about 30 minutes to an hour, so you have about two and a half, three hours before it goes down entirely.
Taliesin: That should give us enough time to do a quick tour. We already know their walking route, and I'm sure that the people are putting up a fight.
Marisha: I'm going to give him a level two Cure Wounds.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: So do 2d8 plus ten.
Laura: Me?
Marisha: Sure. Me or you. Whoever feels more comfortable.
Laura: I'll do it. It was good.
Matt: During this rest, if you wanted to spend some time with that cape--
Liam: I do. I'm going to sniff it and shake it out.
Matt: For the most part, it doesn't appear to be enchanted.
Sam: No, I can sing a Song of Rest for all of us.
Marisha: Oh, yeah. Do that.
Laura: Oh, yeah. Do that.
Sam: It gives us all 1d6. That's pretty weak.
Marisha: No, but that's...
Laura: No, it's fine. He's got extra hit points; don't worry about it.
Marisha: Well, Song of Rest just happens, right? Do you get that for free? You might as well, if you don't burn anything.
Sam: Okay. (sings) Health! We need some now. Health! Not just anybody. Health! You know you need someone.
All: (sings) Health!
Matt: That's not trademarked at all. I love it. All right, so you guys have rested up. Through the rest, you occasionally hear voices run by, yelling. As you guys get toward the end of your rest, you hear the (stomping) large heavy footfalls heading nearby. (groaning, crash) A loud, heavy impact, and you hear some short cheers outside.
Travis: Yes!
Laura: Yay!
Sam: Oh, he died. That's two down. Splash two.
Travis: Right out front, we hear it?
Matt: Out front, a little ways off. Not immediately.
Sam: Do we have horses? We don't have any horses, do we?
Laura: No.
Liam: They died.
Matt: Yeah, they got eaten by harpies.
Travis: Should we go outside and see how they're doing?
Taliesin: Yeah, let's check it out.
Travis: We go out front.
Liam: Time to kill some giant undead.
Matt: Okay. Jordana lets you guys out, locks behind her.
Marisha: Do we want to split up?
Taliesin: No, let's keep together.
Laura: Actually, before we go, I ask, do you have any holy symbols at all in here?
Matt: "I'm sorry, no."
Laura: Nothing?
Matt: "No. All those were kept in either of the two temples here."
Laura: Do you have anything magic that could help me?
Matt: "I already gave you everything of magic that I had here."
Laura: Oh, right. I forgot we took it.
Matt: "Sorry."
Laura: Shit. All right, thank you.
Travis: Once we're outside, how far away is that giant that was felled?
Matt: As you step outside and look, it's about 60 feet off, near one of the big crossroads near this area. And a zombie giant has been completely felled down, and there are three people now that are currently in the process of hacking its head off just to make sure. It's a group of about seven people that live here. They're all looking pretty messed up, but they're all eager and adrenaline-driven, they're all hacking away, then stopping and taking a breath (breathes heavily). You hear in the distance, (thunder crack) bolt of lightning coming down from the storm, and as it echoes, everyone shakes for a second, look at each other, (cheers) give a cheer of victory. They all hop off the body of the zombie giant and begin darting further in towards the center of the city.
Marisha: I look up. Is my de Rolo symbol still in the sky?
Matt: It's there. It's dissipating slowly, but it's still there. It's moved a little bit off-axis with the storm.
Travis: So that's it for the big houses, right? Just the castle.
Taliesin: Just the castle.
Sam: Except we haven't killed the members of one of the houses. By the way, my Song of Rest is a d8.
Laura: Awesome.
Sam: But we haven't killed the last one. Now, the one that you guys killed. What's his name again, Tylieri?
Matt: Tylieri.
Sam: He was a vampire.
All: Yes.
Sam: Because Sylas killed him. Right?
Taliesin: Yes.
Sam: And then made him a vampire.
Taliesin: One would assume.
Sam: Didn't he hang him on the Sun Tree?
Laura: What? No. What? What are you talking about?
Sam: I don't know. Didn't that guy that we meet...
Matt: You do recall, actually, when you were interrogating the driver of the Briarwoods. Tylieri was the master of the driver Desmond, who beat him and subjugated him to various forms of torture and abuse before Lord Briarwood took Desmond and, to try and show extension of faith, revealed to Desmond Tylieri hanging from the Sun Tree. That was true.
Travis: Wow.
Sam: And then he became a vampire. Is that where they're spawning?
Laura: No. Maybe he was already a vampire and he hung him from the tree just to show--
Sam: That doesn't seem right.
Taliesin: Let's head to the Sun Tree, why don't we?
Laura: Let's head that direction.
Travis: Let's go.
Marisha: Something to us about how when people die in this town. The guy you talked to at the bar?
Sam: Yes, we talked to a guy at the bar. What about him?
Marisha: He said when people die here they don't die.
Sam: Well, yes, we know that, yes.
Laura: They come back.
Liam: They could be-- yes, that could apply, too.
Marisha: I think this whole damn town-- I think the whole land is cursed. Is what I think.
Travis: I think that's--
Laura: Probably pretty fair.
Travis: Should we go to the tree?
Laura: Sure.
Marisha: Why?
Taliesin: Just to see--
Laura: We'll make our way through the town and look for giants as we make our way to the tree.
Marisha: Let's look for giants. Let's go giant-hunting.
Matt: Okay. All right, so from the Alcove, you guys head in a southwestern motion, keeping off the main paths best you can. The main chaos seems to have died down a little bit in this area of the town. You come across another body of a zombie giant, surrounded by what looks like eight bodies of civilians of the town.
Laura: Are they all dead, or are they injured?
Matt: No, they are all very dead. Two of which are torn in half and just tossed to different sides, one appears to be half-eaten, and the rest are just smashed. But whatever troop was with them managed to take the zombie giant down. Eventually, you make your way to the center of the town square where the Sun Tree is and there is, across the way on the opposite side, what appears to be, in mid-struggle, one zombie giant that has a series of spears or javelins sticking out of its torso. It's currently swatting at a group of individuals that have torches in the rain, still trying to get up towards it and push it backward. The Sun Tree, at a glance-- roll a perception check.
Marisha: All of us?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: One. There's a tree!
Sam: Four.
Marisha: I rolled a 19, so 29?
Matt: Okay.
Liam: 23.
Laura: If my passive perception's higher than my roll--
Matt: Active perception and passive perception-- passive is more something to keep track when you're not actively perceiving. So. Grog?
Travis: Seven.
Matt: Okay. Keyleth, you pick this out in the rain, and it's hard to see, but from this angle, you see what looks to be eight ropes, currently, just dangling free from the Sun Tree.
Taliesin: Damn it.
Laura: Shit.
Sam: The tree is the spawning spot.
Laura: Really?
Sam: Or maybe one of them.
Travis: Or maybe they cut them down.
Sam: We've got to cut down this tree.
Laura: Does it look like the ropes have been cut?
Matt: You can go closer to inspect it if you want.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: You're hearing in the distance the (roars) the battle's still raging about 65, 70 feet from you. You get up behind the tree and you take the ropes and inspect it. All the ropes are very finely cut.
Laura: Oh. They were cut. They cut them down.
Travis: They cut their dead down.
Marisha: Okay, so the nooses are gone.
Matt: Yeah. And you do see, there are a number. This close, you can see there are loops of rope all over the tree: some very old and weathered and aged, some of them are torn, some of them are cut, but the fresh ones that are the longest currently and that are placed closest to where the bodies were originally there are all very cleanly cut.
Laura: Can we spin around and look and see if there's anything around that looks like-- or look at tracking and see if it looks like somebody cut them down or if they fell on their own?
Matt: You glance around real fast and you can see to the south there is still the battle raging between the zombie giant and the crew of individuals, but you look back where you guys were from, and you see a large series of shapes stepping through the rain, coming from the direction you guys were.
Liam: I think they cut them down just like Tylieri. I think that this is where they hang them to ripen, and then when they're ready they pluck them off the tree and set them on their way.
Matt: As you're having this conversation, you, keeping your eyes forward as he's saying this in your ear, you can see, as the light of the town is slowly beginning to vanish into a sunset--
Marisha: Is it still raining?
Matt: It is still raining. You see ahead of you, coming from the central roadway into the square of the town, what you can only surmise to be anywhere from 30 to 50 armored skeletal entities that are pouring from the north.
Marisha: Okay. I climb the Sun Tree.
Sam: Wait, what? We've got to get out of here!
Marisha: I'm climbing the Sun Tree.
Matt: Climbing the Sun Tree. All right. You guys see Keyleth scurry up the Sun Tree.
Sam: I blow my Horn of Fog to create a smokescreen. I don't know what the fuck she's doing.
Matt: Okay. (foghorn sound) The slow horn-blow comes out, and this fog begins to fill the area between this marching skeletal army and the Sun Tree where you guys currently are. Looking over your shoulder, you can see the zombie giant finishes smashing the last individual in that crew, picks it up and jams it into its jagged giant teeth.
Marisha: So there's a big army coming down, filtering down a street.
Matt: Down the street towards you.
Marisha: How far away?
Matt: You can't tell now. There's just fog along the way.
Marisha: I can't tell how far away they are right now?
Matt: No, you can't see them.
Marisha: I can't see them?
Matt: No, because Scanlan just created a whole bunch of fog between the two of you. The moment you saw, they may be about a hundred or so feet from you.
Liam: Keyleth, tell us what you're thinking, because the rest of us are taking this time to go.
Travis: You engage, they'll follow, we go, we fight another day, we sleep in the rafters and wait until daybreak.
Liam: Who are you?
Marisha: I might be able to do something.
Laura: What is it? Say it!
Marisha: I can do a big ice storm or do something to take all these fuckers out at once.
Travis: All 30 to 50 of them? Kill them all?
Marisha: It's a big range.
Liam: No. Keyleth, we've got to go.
Taliesin: I say we let her hit them, and we run.
Marisha: Scanlan, can you drop the fog just a bit?
Sam: Nope, not by magic.
Matt: He can't control it.
Laura: It's on the ground. You can probably see above it. Fog is low.
Matt: Well, the fog this creates is a magical fog that obscures an entire area. If you climbed to the very top of the tree, you might be able to get a little bit of a visual.
Marisha: All right, I'm going to climb as high as I can.
Matt: Okay, make an athletics check.
Laura: I'm going to climb up after her.
Sam: Oh my god.
Marisha: 11. Acrobatics or athletics?
Matt: Athletics.
Marisha: Oh, that's better. 15.
Matt: 15. Okay. You make your way up to the very precarious top of the branches. You can feel the brittleness of it as the tree itself, its life force is withered over time and some of it cracks and some of the actual bark of the tree twists off in your grip as you get to the very top. You can look just over the bank of fog that Scanlan has created and you can see beyond that. The number of undead from this angle, what was initially like 30 probably pushes closer to about a hundred.
Marisha: Okay. And they're like a hundred feet away?
Matt: Starting about a hundred feet away, slowly marching towards you.
Marisha: Right where they are, I'm going to start a little ahead of where they originate, I'm going to start making an ice storm. I'm pushing all the way back to where-- just right down these fuckers.
Liam: I'm also just trying to stay underneath her as best I can.
Laura: Stop looking up her skirt, brother.
Liam: Is she in a skirt?
Sam: She's been wearing a dress this whole time?
Liam: I thought she was covered in leaves.
Taliesin: Stop looking up her fig leaf.
Matt: All right. What's the damage on that? Is it 2d8 bludgeoning and 2d8--
Marisha: They take 2d8 bludgeoning damage and 4d6 cold damage.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and roll for both. And it's a save for half, right?
Taliesin: Inspiration?
Sam: Oh. Well. I didn't do it.
Marisha: 2d8 bludgeoning, that's seven bludgeoning... 4d6. Not great at all. Four, five, six, seven, eight.
Matt: Total of eight. Eight plus... what was the other one?
Marisha: Seven.
Matt: Seven, okay.
Marisha: And it's difficult terrain.
Matt: Okay. So the first area. Suddenly you see some of the clouds above you begin to funnel downward, and a few bolts of electricity (crackle) through it. As the funnel hits, it grows dark, and then all of a sudden this cold wind begins to swirl around it. And with that, the cloud almost seems to tear open within itself and a sheet of jagged ice and sleet begins to pour downward into the center of this undead horde. As it does, you can see probably a good 25, 30 of these are just blown apart, bone shards scattered around and you can see bits of rusted metal weapons and armor thrown left and right. The ice then coalesces over the floor of this area and some of the skeletons just slip, but they keep marching forward. It definitely took a chunk, but as it continues pushing forward--
Marisha: Now we can run.
Laura: Good job. I grab the back of her shirt and yank her towards me.
Matt: You guys make your way down the tree. As you get to the bottom of the tree, the zombie giant has taken notice of the sudden flashing of light and the movement in the tree and is bounding towards the tree after you guys.
Laura: Are we running?
Travis: Are we going to the Alcove or going to the treeline?
Taliesin: I say we go to the treeline, and I say that you take a couple shots as we're heading--
Laura: I'm definitely doing that, yes. I'm going to shoot at the giant as we're running. Hunter's Mark him.
Matt: Okay, you Hunter's Mark, turning around, looking at the giant.
Marisha: As she says that, I'm going to go ahead and start casting my Call Lightning spell.
Matt: Okay. So you land and you cast Call Lightning. The fog that you created, Scanlan?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: Has formed up. You start seeing shapes; these terrifying skeletal faces begin to appear through the fog as the rest of the army begins to push through. The clouds coalescing above Keyleth as you get your Call Lightning ready, you marking the zombie giant, you guys begin bolting out of the way. Trinket comes running up behind you, Vex, and picks you up onto his back, and you guys begin rushing off toward the treeline-- to the west or the east?
Laura: Can I shoot him?
Marisha: Yeah, as I turn around, I Call Lightning on the giant.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll damage on that.
Marisha: And it's cloudy, so I get how much more?
Matt: I don't know, how much do you get more on that? Call Lightning would be...
Sam: While you decide, which way are we going, Percy? West or east?
Matt: 3d10. It does an additional d10. It does 4d10.
Laura: And I'm going to shoot him through my Longbow of the Sky Sentinel as we're going away, too.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: So the passage to the castle I'm aware of is to the west, and then the one that Stonefell mentioned is to the east?
Travis: Do we go to the treeline by the castle?
Matt: No, the one Stonefell mentioned was the same.
Taliesin: Was the same?
Matt: It wasn't Stonefell, it was Vouk.
Taliesin: Yeah, thank you.
Matt: But yeah. He was referring to the same one.
Taliesin: Treeline to the west so that we can attack first thing.
Laura: 22. Twice.
Matt: 22 hits.
Laura: And then three on the last one.
Matt: Okay, yeah.
Laura: Well, it's technically 14 on the last one.
Matt: For him? Still hits.
Laura: Oh, sweet!
Matt: It's a big target. Big target, lot of hit points.
Marisha: And as she's brewing up her bow, I'm behind her and just bring down the bolt for 32 damage.
Matt: Damn. (lightning sound) You can see the bolt strikes the front of the zombie giant right as it starts swinging after you guys. The bolt hits its shoulder and blasts a chunk of its shoulder blade off. You see bone shards fire behind, and there's a giant piece of its torso now missing where the bolt hit. (groans) Stumbles back onto its back foot and catches itself, almost toppling over.
Marisha: Just start backing up. "Vex?"
Matt: It starts lumbering forward again as Vex releases her arrow, which splits into three.
Marisha: Vex?
Laura: 54 points of damage.
Marisha: Kill it!
Matt: Nice! (impact sounds) All the arrows blasting into its body, you can see they sink in and burst on the inside. There's a little, a dull glow as this burst of electrical energy hits from underneath its sickly zombified flesh. At which point, there's a slight delay before it (explosion sound) bubbles forth and a bit of its internal liquid just spews out like a boil. You can see it's definitely taking damage, and it keeps pushing forward. Yeah, it's still moving towards you guys.
Liam: How far away is it?
Taliesin: For gods' sakes!
Matt: It's about ten feet from you guys right now.
Taliesin: I pull out Bad News. I'm shooting it with Bad News, and I'm going for an aimed shot to the legs.
Matt: Okay. The moment it would take for you to stop and pull out Bad News, by the way, the moment you guys are turning around to attack it, it has gotten within range to hit, so this is all happening simultaneously, so it's going to get two strikes as you guys get your attacks, as well.
Marisha: What are you doing?
Matt: So. Go ahead and roll your attack.
Liam: I did.
Matt: What did you get?
Liam: 27 and an 18.
Matt: Both hit.
Taliesin: I got 28.
Matt: Okay. And against Percy, that is a 17 and a 20.
Taliesin: 17 misses. The 20 hits.
Matt: Okay. You take 16 points of bludgeoning damage as its fist comes down and (whack) slams into your side just as Bad News fires off and your daggers go (dagger sounds) towards it.
Liam: Keen Dagger, Flametongue, combined 20 hit points.
Matt: Okay. Good to know.
Marisha: And as soon as I'm able, I'm backing up and bringing down another lightning bolt.
Laura: Well, I've got another attack. That was just one attack that I did.
Marisha: Oh yeah.
Sam: You need your spells. We need to hide. We need to run.
Marisha: It's okay, this is a concentration spell. I can keep doing it. I'm not blowing spells on it.
Taliesin: 22 points of damage, plus he's knocked prone.
Matt: Okay. Easy enough. Through the daggers--
Taliesin: Oh, he can make a con saving throw, though.
Matt: It doesn't matter. It still manages to keep its zombie form, though it seems like every single hit you're taking chunks off its body, but it continues to push through the damage until eventually it swings at you with the hit, Bad News goes off as it blasts through the center of its torso and takes out the back of its spine. It can't keep its physical form together, and as its body lunges forward, you throw both of your daggers, which go (thoonk thoonk) into each of its eyes. It falls forward. The torso seems to roll on impact and come after you like a slow-moving boulder for a few feet, but since you're all moving forward, you manage to outrun it, just barely keeping out of the way. The legs walk on their own for two more steps before it just falls forward into the mud, relieving all its intestines into the rain-soaked ground.
Sam: Let's get out of here!
Marisha: Go, go, go. Run!
Laura: Pass Without a Trace!
Travis: Aggressive flower girl.
Marisha: Do I see any other-- as we're running through--
Laura: Just run, Keyleth!
Liam: I grab Keyleth by the arm and I just pull and run.
Matt: You guys go running back and as you're looking over your shoulder you can see the skeletal army swarming the center of the square and pouring into the streets. It seems that the Briarwoods had their own reserve anti-riot campaign at the ready.
Laura: Oh, are they going to take out everybody?
Marisha: We can't go, we can't go!
Sam: We have to go. We have nothing left.
Matt: And with that, we're going to conclude tonight's session. (groaning)
Matt: We'll be returning next week on that note.
Travis: (laughs) You son of a bitch, I love it.
Matt: All right, so we're going to take a little break here while we set up for Critmas. Quick one, very quick, we'll be back here in just a few minutes, for those who want to hang in and watch how ridiculously amazing this community is.
Laura: Oh my gosh. There's like, there's a lot.
Marisha: Yeah, you guys are crazy.
Liam: Buckle up!
Matt: All right, quick break. See you in a second.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors get together and play Dungeons & Dragons. Tonight, apologies for the slight technical issues, but we're back and we're going to be playing through tonight's adventure. Before that gets started, let's go ahead and get through a couple of quick announcements. First and foremost, it's our third week of our Loot Crate sponsorship. Thank you very much. (cheering)
Matt: Thank you for your interest in our show and our audience, so for those of you who are interested, Loot Crate is a really cool service where once a month they bring you themed boxes that have mystery contents within that are part of that theme. All generally pop culture and geek-centric.
Laura: Taliesin, you're so loud!
Matt: Taliesin, quiet!
Sam: Shut up, Taliesin. Jesus. (laughter)
Travis: Stop masturbating during the announcements.
Laura: It's so loud. What are you doing?
Taliesin: I think I hit my microphone.
Sam: Don't worry. You're not an audio professional.
Matt: That's okay. At least it wasn't during a very climactic and important emotional moment in the game.
Travis: (laughing) Yeah, that's right.
Ashley: You're welcome!
Matt: (laughs) Anyway, yeah. Loot Crate's awesome. We've gone with it for years. They send mystery items that are all geek and pop culture-related. They're a lot of fun, and if you go to their website at www.LootCrate.com/criticalrole and check it out. If you like it and you get a subscription, you can use criticalrole-- one word-- as a promo code to get $3 off a subscription.
Sam: I'm wearing some of the stuff from the crate right now.
Travis: And they've got a power crate coming out.
Laura: David Bowie! Labyrinth!
Travis: They have an Infinity Gauntlet oven mitt.
Marisha: That's pretty dope.
Laura: Is that giving something away? I feel like we gave spoilers.
Liam: It was already Periscoped.
Laura: Oh, that's true. Never mind.
Matt: That would be nice in the box. We're good? We didn't waste it?
Liam: What's in the box?
Ashley: (singing) A dick in a box.
Matt: I hope there is no dick in a box as part of this service. Or perhaps I guess you do, depending on-- that's a whole different box service.
Marisha: If there is, you should call your local post office. (laughter)
Matt: That's a love box membership. Anyway, so! Also, once again, I want to remind everyone, we are happily carrying along the torch of 826LA, a fantastic charity that's been with us from the very beginning. 826 is a wonderful charity that promotes creative writing skills and literacy in mostly underprivileged kids at a young age, at which they normally don't have access to tutoring and people to help them on that direction, so if you can and have the opportunity and you're feeling like giving to some awesome people out there, 826LA, and 826 in general in your area, is a great charity to take a look at, so please. You guys have been a tremendous help in the past and you may continue to be so, if you wish.
Travis: Absolutely.
Matt: Good times. Let's see. Taliesin is joining us from Hawaii. Where are you at, Taliesin?
Taliesin: Where am I right now? I'm in my hotel room. Somewhere-- which island are we on? Oahu. We're on Oahu. For Amazing Comic-Con.
Matt: If you're on Oahu and you're watching this, you should go say hi to him. Not right now, but tomorrow and Sunday. And the rest of the great folks that are out there with you. All good people. Big old Street Fighter troupe. Also, we have Travis and his nose goblin and Laura, you guys are attending Puerto Rico Comic-Con?
Laura: Yeah! We leave early tomorrow morning.
Liam: Ah, you can sleep on the plane.
Laura: Good times.
Travis: Yeah! If you're in Puerto Rico, come see us. We'll be there, totally sleep-deprived and bushy-tailed.
Liam: It's a good one, though.
Travis: It's a good one?
Liam: Yeah, I went to that one.
Travis: We're excited to go. San Juan, baby. San Juan!
Matt: That's pretty slick, actually.
Marisha: That's awesome.
Matt: Does anybody else-- you said you wanted to mention something?
Liam: Yeah, Sam Riegel and I are both in Fallout Far Harbor, which is the first big DLC story dump. "Fah Hahbah." Fallout is my favorite way to escape reality second to this, so I hope you come join me. I play a human guy, but there's also a synth. Look for the synth.
Sam: I think I play a synth. And there you go.
Liam: There you go. That's it.
Sam: Good plug.
Marisha: You can also build a Taliesin robot, which I did, and named it the Taliesin 2000.
Laura: Aw, that's awesome!
Matt: So you could take either a custom-build Taliesin or me as your companion to Far Harbor and talk to these shmucks. And have a full Critical Role after-the-apocalypse experience. That's awesome. Okay, we're actually going to be downloading that soon. Anyone else have anything they want to mention before we jump into the game tonight?
Travis: Let's do this.
Marisha: I don't want to die.
Matt: Let's go ahead and get this started, as we dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role!
Sam: Nothing's happening.
Matt: No intro.
Sam: Nothing's happening. (laughter)
Sam: Wait! Let's act it out.
Matt: Act out the intro?
Marisha: Okay! (imitating music)
Travis: (growls)
Marisha: (swishing sound effects)
Sam: Taliesin, do something!
Liam: Shoot from your screen!
Laura: Shoot, you're shooting your gun! Be Percy!
Liam: Then you got hit by a wang!
Laura: Oh, you fall over!
Matt: Well done Taliesin, that was great. Ashley picks him up.
Laura: She's healing him.
Ashley: I'll hold your hand! Eyes closed, holding my holy symbol!
Matt: And it got weird.
Ashley: Had to add it.
Matt: And now it swings--
Liam: Oh, Laura Bailey standing in for an orc! (stabbing sound) Ugh, gah! Now be yourself oh!
Laura: Pew pew!
Liam: And I'll go oh!
Laura: And then I'll go oh! Then I wink at you.
Travis: This was not the plan, for the love of god help us!
Laura: And then I shoot another one at you! [actual intro plays]
Matt: Welcome back to this majestic clusterfuck that is tonight. (laughter)
Matt: As open beta leaves its red and raw path, we rebuild! We stand up against the swaggering might of the new programming, and we stand tall for tonight's episode of Critical Role. Previously, Vox Machina, the band of adventurers walking through Tal'Dorei post-attack of the Chroma Conclave, an evil troupe of chromatic dragons that are currently holding power in this region and beyond, after tearing through many of the bastions of society in this countryside. They have gone on a quest to search for artifacts known as the Vestiges of Divergence, from ancient wars and heroes of old and yore, to use against the leader of the Chroma Conclave, Thordak the Cinder King. Now as part of this confrontation, they made their way to the city of Westruun, which was partially destroyed by the black dragon, Umbrasyl. While it was off and away with the rest of the Conclave, was then conquered by the wandering Herd of Storms that Grog once belonged to. After finding it occupied by these rather brutal barbaric individuals, Vox Machina set into the city, destroyed and tore down their leader Kevdak, to much fanfare from Grog's past. And through Kevdak's son and Grog's majestic might they decided to take the remainder of the Herd of Storms and take out Umbrasyl, the great black dragon. Half the Herd didn't like that and has decided to leave to their own devices, where the rest of the party possibly prepares to plot and plan a way to kill an ancient black dragon.
Travis: I don't like the way he said that. Why'd you have to say it like that? It's just a black dragon!
Matt: What else am I going to say?
Liam: Why the dramatic pauses?
Matt: Because it's fun.
Travis: You used the word 'somehow'.
Matt: I like it. You guys, having just finished this stroke of a conversation with Zanror in the Margrave's homestead, the dawn light is now beginning to pour over the mountain range in the distance. The day has officially begun. Zanror has stepped out and has begun to speak with a few of his trusted Herd members to stand down for the day, letting people know that the battle has been postponed for the time being while a plan is to be enacted, prepared for, and then sprung the following day. The rest of you guys have this day to prepare however you see fit. So I ask you: what would you like to do?
Sam: We have so many things that we need to do!
Matt: Where do we begin?
Sam: We need supplies. We need to parlay with our allies. We need lots of chains.
Laura: We need to trap the dragon obviously on the ground.
Sam: For that we'll need some bindings of some sort: chains, hooks, spikes.
Taliesin: I have a thought, I have a thought in that direction. When we're ready, I was thinking of basically building what is essentially a giant pressurized mousetrap.
Laura: Is there, how would you do that?
Liam: How much time do you need, Perce?
Taliesin: Do I have access to some people to help build it, and some perhaps broken homes and chunks of wood and chain?
Matt: You do have access to broken homes, chain, and scraps at your disposal. As far as individuals that can aid you, you have individuals that can help hold things for you. The Herd of Storms is not known for its ingenious use of tinkering tools, but--
Laura: What about blacksmiths in town? Are there any blacksmiths left?
Matt: You can check around.
Taliesin: This would be a blacksmith just to make a couple springs. This is not a complicated-- This is literally something you could make in the woods. It's a slightly more complex version of something you could make in the woods to catch birds. I'm just building a really big version. It's a whole bunch of systems like this that will have chains and weights on them that when you disrupt the weight at the center the whole thing goes clunk, throws a whole bunch of-- it's basically a netting system. It's an entanglement and will be an entanglement.
Matt: Okay. I'll tell you what. Go ahead and roll an investigation check, Percy, if you don't mind.
Laura: Can we help him at all?
Matt: Yeah, I'll say if you want to go ahead and aid to that, take advantage on that, Percy.
Taliesin: Thank god. Yeah, no, not very good.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Taliesin: I rolled a six.
Laura: With advantage?
Matt: With advantage?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: So! After taking the better part of about three hours scouring the town, most of the remaining villagers--
Laura: He took three hours doing that?!
Matt: Three hours, so, from what he's doing with the aid of people that aided him, which would be Vex asking about, the few folks that have any experience with any sort of blacksmithy are the folks that make horseshoes, and that's the extent of the complication they can create. So they can attempt to, with your aid, craft some springs. They have the materials to do very basic metalwork and ironwork, but the people you encounter, two folks in particular, they're both a little confused by your overall design and are waiting for you to lead them in a specific direction.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm just going to take them and I'm going to start building one and see if they can follow suit then. Three springs will be more than enough for this design.
Matt: How big a spring?
Taliesin: I would say, how tall is this dragon?
Matt: Roughly 30 to 40 feet, depending.
Taliesin: About a two-to-three-foot spring, then. Three two-to-three-foot springs made of solid iron. Just enough to lift the system and toss. And it's just, you make them like chainmail. It's a process that exists. I'm not going nuts.
Matt: I'm not saying you're going nuts. You are a little stretched for supplies and manpower based on the circumstances in Westruun for a complicated task, but it's fairly possible, but it will pretty much take the entirety of your day and most of your night to prepare this. You'll be able to squeeze by with this, with the construction of the device, and have maybe just enough room for-- I'll let you squeeze in a long rest.
Taliesin: That'll be perfect.
Matt: But that's success or fail.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Matt: Okay. What are the rest of you guys planning?
Liam: Three hours ago, back when we were still together, I pulled Scanlan aside. Listen, I want to talk to you. I have an idea.
Sam: Is this about Kaylie? Because I'm still worried about her. But I don't think that we should discuss her right now. We have other things! Why are you harping on this? She's my daughter. (laughter)
Sam: Just give it a rest.
Liam: You're right, I should have never dragged you down into the sewers, and I apologize. It won't happen again. But listen to me. I have an idea. It's a dangerous idea, and I don't want to lead with it. I don't want to fight this dragon, to be honest, but I think the group is going that direction. If we do-- Percival's run off to try something, maybe we're just going to run out. I have an idea that only you can do.
Sam: Okay.
Liam: We have a rod.
Sam: Yes.
Liam: Not the cube. A rod that cannot be moved.
Sam: We could use it in some way.
Liam: You can teleport, and I'm almost too afraid to even suggest it, but if shit goes south, how would you feel about teleporting inside of Umbrasyl's stomach? With that rod.
Sam: Well, what has he eaten? Because it could be nasty in there!
Liam: I assume it will. I don't know anatomy. I haven't talked to my sister about this. She might be able to give us input, and I don't want to lead with this. I don't want you to do it because I feel like you could melt in there.
Sam: Of course I could melt in there! I'm a little man and he's got acid on him!
Liam: I know. I'm looking for a way through this fucking clusterfuck and if there's nothing else to do, you could go in there and click that rod and give him the worst suppository ever invented!
Sam: Listen. If there's a man invented who can go to where shit is made and make some really good shit, that's me. So let's pursue this. As a plan B.
Liam: As a plan B. And I take him by the shoulders. You remember that little talk we had about a week ago, when you told--
Sam: Is this about Kaylie again?
Liam: No, we can talk about Kaylie in a couple of days, all right?
Sam: Okay.
Liam: When you told me how things were better now? Okay, you remember that?
Sam: Yes.
Liam: That was fucking insane. They are not better. Everything is terrible! Our lives are terrible. They are way worse than they were six months ago, way worse. I was with all of you assholes a year ago, and two years ago, they're way worse.
Sam: You're saying that, a sullen loner who is confiding in one of his closest friends while holding him on the shoulders. This you never had before.
Liam: I slap him on the cheek a little bit and say: you are a fucking madman, but I am glad you're here.
Sam: I'm glad to be with you.
Liam: And I love you. And I give him a playful slap across the face.
Sam: Six points of damage. (laughter)
Matt: Unexpected, sneak attack. 7d6 points of damage.
Sam: All right, so I'm going to go talk to Vex. An expert in dragons I hope?
Laura: I'm an expert on dragons.
Sam: And ask her how dragons work, how their bodies work.
Laura: What do you mean?
Sam: Where they're vulnerable, where they make the acid, where they have lungs, where they have stomachs, how many stomachs? Are they like a cow with eight stomachs or something?
Matt: Go ahead and make an intelligence check with advantage.
Travis: Cows have eight stomachs?
Marisha: They've got like two or three.
Laura: Shut up! 17.
Matt: 17. Yeah, dragons have the pieces you imagine they would have in the right vicinity. Their stomach is quite acidic, as it has been known to dissolve some of the hardiest of creatures, let alone break down some basic minerals and materials. So it's not a happy place to be, but it's not like instantaneous dissolution. It will hurt. Also know that the breath weapon, the acid that a black dragon, which uses acid as a breath weapon in a stream in front of it, much like your lightning bolt, does not come from its stomach. That acid is much more toxic, concentrated, and comes from a separate part of its body, a gland, a breathing mechanism that projects it outward.
Laura: Where's the gland located? Would I know that, like, in his throat?
Matt: It's somewhere in this vicinity, you're not entirely certain.
Sam: So if I miss, end up in that gland, that would be not good.
Matt: That would be really bad.
Liam: Don't roll a one!
Ashley: But that would probably be really hard to just get right into that spot.
Liam: But you know, you wouldn't suffer.
Laura: It would be instantaneous, at least.
Sam: Also. Vex. Vex'ahlia.
Laura: Oh. Getting fancy now, Scanlan Shorthalt.
Sam: Thank you. Your brother tells me that you have some sort of acid-resistant something.
Laura: The armor? That I took from him?
Liam: Yes, my armor. She has it.
Laura: Well-- are you here? Are you next-- are you next to me now?
Liam: No, I'm about five feet behind you rolling my eyes and doing this the whole time you're talking about dragons.
Laura: It's the armor that I won fair and square from him! Yes, I am wearing it right now.
Sam: Is that your primary armor?
Laura: It is.
Sam: How would you feel about me asking you to take it off? Doing a little unbuckling and giving it to me instead?
Laura: Scanlan, that's going to cost you a lot of money.
Sam: We could swap armor.
Laura: You think your little armor will fit me.
Sam: I have a pretty broad chest. These are pecs.
Laura: What kind of armor do you have?
Sam: I have cold snap leather armor.
Laura: Which is cold resistant?
Sam: Cold resistant. Maybe the dragon will throw snowballs at you.
Laura: I doubt that. What is it, is it plus two?
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: Plus two on top of the armor, so it's four.
Matt: So it's armor plus two.
Liam: It's better overall.
Laura: Okay. Well sweet, then yeah, sure, give it to me.
Sam: Can we do that?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Strip on down there, Scanlan.
Sam: Well, ladies first!
Laura: No, you first, I want to see the cube and then I'll give you my armor.
Sam: Shall we make it interesting and play a little poker?
Laura: There's no time for that.
Sam: All right. I very slowly and sultrily unbuckle my armor, let one strap fall, let the other strap fall, just do a little shimmy and let it fall to the ground, sort of like The Crying Game. Just sort of, camera pans up a little bit and it's just, there's nothing underneath, it's just me and the cube. And I cry a little. (laughter)
Liam: During which I pick up Scanlan's shawm and start playing it terribly. No idea what I'm doing. Do you blow into this, are there strings? I don't know.
Laura: I try really hard not to start laughing.
Sam: Go with what your body tells you to do. How are you going to take off your armor?
Laura: That's a good question. Do you want to walk away for this?
Liam: Yeah, I leave the room.
Laura: I completely ungracefully take it off and throw it at you. Give me that armor. How is this going to fit me? I'm just naked trying to squirm into these extra-skinny jeans.
Matt: Actually, as you pull the armor pieces up, they shift and formfit to your size as part of their enchantment.
Laura: What color is it? Is it beautiful?
Matt: The cold snap armor is I believe dark browns with traces of white and silver along the edges as a cold winter motif as part of the enchantment.
Laura: Does it match my storm bow?
Matt: Yeah, I guess you could say that.
Laura: You might not be getting this back, Scanlan.
Sam: Oh, really? Well. What does mine look like?
Matt: For a moment, it looks pretty haphazard and hanging off of you.
Sam: Oh, these are like C-cups up here. (laughter)
Matt: As the armor slowly retracts and finds itself to your form.
Sam: Oh! They went down.
Matt: In that moment, Scanlan learned a lot about himself.
Sam: All right. I feel good about this. Now we'll continue our dragon lesson I suppose.
Laura: Wait, why did you need to change-- are you going to be up close and personal with him?
Sam: Well, I think we all are, you know. He breathes acid.
Laura: Well yes, but.
Sam: Yeah, so we could get hit! Now I'm more protected than you are!
Laura: This was a really stupid-- why did I give that up?
Sam: I'm very charming.
Laura: Now you're not here?
Liam: You told me to leave! You took off your clothes. I'm Liam, I'm not Vax, what're you talking about?
Laura: Are you planning on doing something?
Sam: We're all planning on doing something, and I don't think that my part of the plan is any stupider than yours will be. So. Good luck to you. I'll keep your armor safe. Hopefully we can trade back. And if not, you can peel it off my dead body.
Laura: As long as you're not melted from all the acid.
Ashley: I'd like to attune to my frostbrand sword.
Matt: Okay, so you'll be putting aside the mace of disruption and taking on the frostband instead. Okay. Cool.
Liam: Oh, shit, I go running after Percival. I'm going to go find Percival.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah. Well. Does that take an hour, or do I catch up with him pretty quick?
Matt: You would know the direction he went, and thankfully in the awkward still-quiet that is the center of the town now that it's missing most of its populace, and those that are there are acknowledging the tension of what might be coming, and many of them are now packing up and leaving and getting out of the town, evacuating when they've been notified of the possible coming battle. The sound of metal clangs in the distance, and the gathering of materials from some of the rubble is not too difficult to discern over time. Takes you about half an hour or so to locate him.
Liam: Oh, there's that white hair. Percival!
Taliesin: Yes? Hello. Bit busy. What?
Liam: Yeah, I'm sorry, I don't want to take up a lot of your time. I reckon you're going to be busy with this all day, yeah?
Taliesin: Oh yes. This is quite a project.
Liam: Ah, and also tomorrow. You're probably going to be taking potshots at that thing, yeah?
Taliesin: Ah, that's my hope is to be, honestly, as far away from this as humanly possible.
Liam: That's probably not my plan. Can I have use of your blade?
Taliesin: Oh! The dragonslayer longsword, yes, of course, of course. I pull it off my belt and hand it off. Could help. I'm a little terrified that you're getting that close to it, but here it is.
Liam: It's just in case.
Taliesin: It's quite a piece.
Liam: Good luck today.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Liam: Good luck tomorrow.
Taliesin: I am down to my normal sword now.
Laura: Can I be talking to Zanror?
Marisha: I'll join you in that. That was my next plan.
Matt: The two of you eventually find Zanror. Zanror and Warra are in the process of piling weapons and armor with the rest of the Herd into the center of the town where the battle outside of the Margrave's house happened. Most of the warriors there are in the process of steeling themselves, some of them are gathering their materials, some are in the process of doing some minor ritualistic scarring in preparation for the battle. There is very little conversation happening. It seems like there is this quiet understanding that this, for many, might be their last day. They're making peace with the coming glory of battle. You'd expect this sense of tense fear, this very Battle of Helm's Deep-type acceptance of doom, but this is a different personality amongst the Herd here. There is almost a brimming excitement with the idea of possible glory or at least a glorious end. And it very much befits the story that you've heard of Grog's past history, and very easy to see where he once came from.
Laura: I bring Zanror a big tankard of ale and sit down in front of him. MATT "Oh, good to see you."
Marisha: I stand behind Vex'ahlia.
Matt: "This for me?"
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Looks to Worra.
Marisha: Don't worry, we wouldn't try to poison you the night before a dragon-fight.
Matt: (laughs) "That would be rather stupid, wouldn't it?"
Marisha: It would.
Matt: And he just downs it all in one big chug. "Thanks."
Laura: Zanror? Did I hear you correctly before, that you have been the one speaking with the beast in the past?
Matt: "I have, aye."
Laura: So when it comes and gathers its treasure, it stops and talks, or does it just come and take it and leave?
Matt: "It has at times. More at the beginning. If it had questions and seemed curious. That wore off after the first few times. Now it just seems to come and take and find its way out."
Laura: So if the treasure looked different this time, it might stop and talk about it?
Matt: He stops for a second. "Maybe."
Laura: I'm curious because I know you said you are lacking in gold and treasure. What will entice the beast?
Matt: "Hm. Beyond that, I don't really know. That's what is forcing our hand right now."
Laura: What if we had a way of providing some gold? And maybe you provide an offering of a different kind? What if you say that your father Kevdak had been plotting against the dragon and you found out about it. Would you be able to offer his body and the body of his allies as tribute to the dragon?
Matt: "Huh."
Laura: Dragons are vain.
Matt: And you do know specifically white dragons, or sorry, black dragons, they're very cruel by nature. They actually enjoy messing with creatures they see below them, especially intended prey, torturing for extended periods of time before killing. They aren't comparatively as vain as other dragons per se, but all chromatics fall in some way shape or form on that same scale of self-love to the point of being a near-disease to many of them. Zanror thinks to himself for a second and goes, "We can certainly try. I mean, I've got no more use for it, though it's going to be hard to convince it without a head. I'm pretty sure Grog took that with him."
Laura: Well, we may be able to get that back. How are you planning on hiding your fellow warriors from the dragon so as not to attract its attention? Because we may have some ideas.
Matt: "We'll have to share ideas. Ours was to go ahead and plod up Gatshadow. Usually it's about noon when it comes down for the offering. We leave it what little we have left, possibly lose two men in the process of delivering it, and then when it returned to its place we'd be there waiting to ambush it once it returned, use that time when it was gone to go ahead and hole up inside its home."
Laura: Okay.
Matt: "That was our intent."
Marisha: We might be able to do one better.
Laura: A dragon's lair is not--
Marisha: Especially a black dragon's lair.
Laura: We wouldn't do much damage to it there, in fact, it's probably laid several traps against us already.
Matt: "Well, there's not much we can really do when we're all fighting with our fucking axes and swords, can we? In the lair at least it's stuck on the ground."
Laura: What if we could trap it onto the ground here?
Matt: "How do you intend to do that?"
Laura: We have a wonderful tinkerer. Quite talented. And he's creating something to trap the dragon.
Matt: "Really."
Laura: Plus we can provide several chains. Once it's on the ground, maybe your very strong goliaths could try to snare it, grappling-hook it, throw some chains up and over?
Marisha: This pile of weapons you have here, I see a decent amount of javelins. A rudimentary harpoon, in the hands of some of your strongest, could help wrangle him down.
Matt: He stops for a second and goes, "I just want to be clear we don't underestimate the sheer size, strength, and ferocity of this beast. With all 20 men, we might be able to hold it down, I don't know how long. I hope that contraption your friend is making is strong enough to aid us that last little bit, because I get the feeling that if our might is put to just keeping it on the ground-- well, that's a lot less of our strengths that we could be tending to. A lot less blades we could put into its hide."
Laura: Well, hopefully it would only be needed for a small amount of time before our magic users have their way with it.
Marisha: About that time I light up my hands.
Matt: "That's impressive. You know what else is impressive? Watching four of my friends melt in a matter of seconds."
Marisha: That is very impressive. You're not wrong.
Matt: "I just want to instill with you an understanding not to be brash, not to go ahead and run into this unless you're absolutely certain. Now. I've got chains, you've got chains. We've got strong men. If we put ourselves intent on just holding this beast down, I have the feeling, even with our weight behind it, it's going to be a difficult attempt. Do we have any other way of anchoring it down, something else we can put the chains to?"
Marisha: About that time I walk over to the-- is there a stone wall in here?
Matt: I mean, there are pieces of stone building in the vicinity.
Marisha: I put my hand against the stone and I cast Transmute Rock and I push my hand into the stone as it turns to mud.
Laura: And now turn it back, Keyleth.
Marisha: I take a spear that's on the floor, stick it in, and then turn it back.
Matt: All right. Let me look this up real fast.
Marisha: See? Magic. (laughter)
Marisha: Put my hand underneath the spear. Put my hand over the spear.
Laura: Ah? Ah? No strings!
Marisha: Where is it, where is it?
Matt: Yeah, mud to rock, yeah. Lasts for-- it's instantaneous. So when he looks at that, he goes, "So. What you're saying is if we can find a few places in which the rock is close to the surface, you could lock these chains in?"
Marisha: I think I could lock the whole dragon in.
Laura: Once it's on the ground, if we can pull it down enough, she may be able to lock its legs into the stone.
Marisha: Beyond that, if that fails-- And then I cast, for right now I'll just do Wall of Stone, I'm just burning through all my spells as a demonstration. And I bring up two pillows. Two pillows?
Ashley: And then we all lay down and go to sleep!
Sam: Pillow fight! (laughter)
Liam: Billy Mays here for the Ashari Tribe!
Matt: "Goose down. Unexpected tactic."
Laura: I like how we're walking through all of these ideas and none of it's going to work when we get there.
Marisha: I blast up two pillars, right next to Kevdak.
Matt: Not next to Kevdak. You mean Zanror?
Marisha: Sorry, sorry. Sorry, the other big goliath leader.
Sam: Whatever your name is.
Matt: That one, ohmygod.
Marisha: And trap him in.
Matt: Okay, you (rumbles). Warra's pushed to the side as the stone shoots up.
Marisha: (whispers) Sorry, Warra, sorry. So-- I know! Did not mean to lay a hand.
Matt: "All right, your point is made. We've got two others who can do similar magic as you, maybe not the same level, but--"
Marisha: Fantastic.
Matt: "Want us to put them at your aid?"
Marisha: That would be wonderful. Beyond that, in prep, I can dig a trench, hidden underground around our trap, so that whenever we're ready, your army can bust out of the ground.
Laura: Surprise.
Marisha: Without being seen.
Matt: "Without being seen, what, are we going to bury my men?"
Laura: Very lightly.
Marisha: Pretty much. To be fair, I actually did it on a trap to kill like eight of your men on the way in and it worked phenomenally. So you should trust me.
Laura: It was pretty great.
Marisha: It worked well.
Matt: "I think we'll take our chances above ground, please."
Laura: The only thing I'm worried about, Zanror, is that if this ugly beast flies in and sees, oh, how many of your men do you have?
Matt: "Currently we're sitting at 25 total, including myself."
Laura: 25 men standing around. Don't you think it's going to be a little curious as to why all of the sudden-- all of a sudden? There's a large number of people around, that's never been there before?
Matt: "You're asking me this, our plan was to go inside while it was out. But if you want us there, let's figure out a way to hide, then. I don't think my men are going to like to be underground."
Marisha: It'll be very spacious. It'll be a nice big tunnel, it's not going to feel like you're buried alive.
Matt: "And what, they just leap out one by one through an opening?"
Laura: It'll be super shallow. Just enough that they can come on up and out.
Marisha: It'll be awesome, it will look like they're coming out of the grave. They'll look like badasses!
Matt: "I don't think that's going to really get a dragon shaking in its claws, y'know?" (sighs)
Laura: Not a lot is going to get a dragon shaking in its claws.
Matt: "Let me talk to my men. We'll see what we can do, we can muster as far as these chains go."
Laura: A surprise attack is going to be one of our best shots at grounding this thing.
Matt: "So, am I to tell my men we're going to bury them in the ground?"
Marisha: Not bury them, that sounds so dramatic when you say it like that, I mean I'm going to make a tunnel, there'll be stairs, they'll be able to walk freely, they'll have air holes, it'll be just like when you moved through the sewers to not be seen.
Matt: "I'll talk to them. I certainly hope your magic stone-shaping is as strong as it is. At the very first moment that dragon looks like it's going to go ahead and break free, we're weapons out. You do understand that."
Marisha: We would appreciate that, actually.
Matt: "Okay."
Laura: We want it to land, then we strike. We just want it to hit the fucking ground.
Matt: "Okay. And what's our bait? You say you have some gold to give?"
Laura: Some gold to give.
Matt: "Try for Kevdak's corpse-- I hope that's enough. I'll see what else we've got left in our coffers." He turns around and him and Warra walk away, a couple of the men join them and they--
Marisha: Oh, I actually-- I go over to Warra real quick before she walks away? Just to her side, and say, you look well. Have the Seers told you if it's going to be a boy or a girl yet?
Matt: "Not yet. But if we survive this, I have a feeling I'll know. The strength and glory of this fight will confirm."
Marisha: If you survive this fight, I'm pretty sure you'll bear the strongest child anyone has ever known.
Laura: The stallion that mounts the world, for sure.
Liam: There it is, there it is. It's in all our heads.
Matt: Nothing ever goes wrong when that title comes up. (laughter)
Matt: What could possibly go wrong? She looks over her shoulder at Zanror as he's walking away and goes, "Could be." And she just turns and starts walking with him.
Laura: So we really need to dig a trench.
Marisha: Yeah. I'm going to start digging a trench.
Laura: Around the area that the treasure is going to be.
Marisha: How far is it?
Matt: You guys scope it out, it's northwest of the town, you saw it on the way in, and it's very easy to make out at this point because there have been large claw-marks in the ground, there are broken pieces of wood, there's a shattered cart, there's some barrels that are partially destroyed to the side, there's a little bit of leftover ends and pieces that fell out of whatever it picked up as it took off as well as a smattering of copper, silver, and gold pieces that you rummaged through before when you first came to the town. But there's a definitive place that you recognize where this drop point is, it's out in the open in the field, there's going to be a couple of nearby rocks, a handful of trees, but they're all very sparse and spread apart. Other than that, it's just open field, so.
Marisha: How far away is the nearest tree cluster?
Matt: To that, it's about-- tree cluster? I mean, most of the trees that are here are singular, there's two trees that are within ten feet of each other and that's maybe 80 feet away from it.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: When you dig the trench, can I use my perception and my ranger ability to camouflage things and make sure that from above the ground, from the height that the dragon will be looking at it, that it's not seeable at all? I don't want this trap to be seen-- I guess I should wait until we find out if Percy finishes his trap and gets it in place to do all of this.
Matt: You can do that if you'd like to. Yeah, as far as the camouflage ability--
Laura: I know Hide in Plain Sight is for myself, but I feel like as a ranger I'd be able to hide tracks and stuff.
Matt: I'll say we can certainly give you--
Laura: We can use a little Dust of Tracelessness or something?
Matt: We can make something function a little bit there, you know, illusion magic is also helpful. If you have anything illusion-based that could even just help tidy up before. You do know that dragons are very perceptive creatures and are very-- are not very trusting either. They're paranoid. That is part of their narcissism, so anything you can use, whether it be illusion, camouflage, anything to hide any sort of possible chance of it not trusting this scenario you're going to want to do, otherwise this thing might fly overhead and notice one thing and be like ah, peace! So. Be warned. Miss Dragon Specialist.
Liam: That was all knowledge in your head.
Laura: I know all of these things! All of a sudden!
Marisha: Did he just say dragons have really high perception so don't fuck with anything and make it look weird?
Laura: No, he said if we're going to do it, make sure it is hidden.
Marisha: Right. Make it look real good. Right.
Travis: Can I go up to some of the guards outside and say, oi. Where do you keep your prisoners, hostages, meat shields?
Matt: I mean, there are no real guards of Westruun anymore, most of the guards that--
Travis: I meant like the goliath, the Herd guards.
Matt: Yeah, the Herd guards. They're a little sparse right now, there aren't any towards the outside of town, most of them are gathering towards the center as the rest of the folks are leaving the town, finding their way out south of Westruun to be away from the battle. But you do find in the Margrave center, similar area to where they were talking to Zanror, there are gathering warriors that are getting their weapons ready, some of them armoring up to just see how easily they can get it on, some of them might even sleep in their armaments, it's not a huge thing. But as you approach and ask this question, one of them turns to you and goes, "Well, there's-- the Iron Stocks is where we generally keep our prisoners. The ones who were before and the few we did keep, well, those we chained up or executed, but there were a few that were thrown in there."
Travis: Are there any still in there? Or are they all clear?
Matt: "Oh, there's plenty of prisoners still in there, we didn't touch the prison, mostly."
Travis: Hm. All right, thank you. (whispers) What was Reginald's daughter's name?
Laura: I don't know if I wrote it down.
Sam: I wrote it down.
Travis: I'd like to make my way over to the Iron Stocks.
Matt: Okay. And you've been here before, you know the Iron Stocks, although you weren't sure if it was being used as still a prison. And seemed loosely, just throwing a handful of people in for use later on that never quite came to fruition.
Marisha: I don't know her name either. We might not have known a name.
Travis: I thought we knew her name. Reginald's daughter's name?
Matt: Do you remember her name?
Travis: Are you asking me?
Marisha: What Sam wrote, he just wrote down 'Reginald's daughter'.
Sam: Maybe he never told us her name.
Matt: (laughs) All right, you make your way to the Iron Stocks. And it is currently unguarded, there is nobody there, the Herd has lost interest in it, the door's partially ajar, and as you walk inside you can already smell the place just reeks of refuse and decay. It looks like everything left in the middle of a workday. There are still ledgers open on the front desk, you can see what looks to be a small group of-- a barracks-type scenario to the left of the entrance that is just completely abandoned and looks like some cases are left open, scattering various keepsakes and bottles that are shattered on the ground, a lot of people left either to go into battle to defend against the dragon, to lose their life in it, or just to get the hell out of Dodge.
Travis: Can I walk up to the ledger and pretend to read it?
Matt: Yeah. You pick it up and leaf through for a few pages, lotta great squiggles.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Some pretty handwriting, you can tell--
Travis: Any squiggles that look familiar?
Matt: Um, no. No, none that-- I mean, some look familiar, some are more rounded--
Travis: Oh, this poor bastard right here, yep, I remember him, good chap. Hello? Is anyone in here?
Matt: There's a slight pause. Then you hear a voice echo from the right side of the room, down a hall just through the stone, you can barely make it out because the distance it's at, because you're hearing the echo protrude from quite a distance, but a voice just says, "Hey! Hey! In here! Need food please!"
Travis: Oh, shit. So I go in that direction. Open the door and try and make my way that way.
Matt: You charge down the hallway and there are a number of cells that are immediately here. Some of them are open and abandoned entirely, there are a few that you look off to the side, looks like a few individuals just passed away inside the cell. You come to a set of stairs that leads down into the next subterranean region and you hear the voice again, much closer, be like, "Hey! Hey! I hear your footsteps!" And you see a hand reaching out from behind some of the bars.
Travis: Put your hand back inside.
Matt: The hand retracts as you look over.
Travis: That's a good lad. What's your name? Before I approach. Still far enough away.
Matt: "Ah. Orn. Orn Finch at your service. Been in here far too long and very thirsty. I will be happily at your service, fair muscled man, should you see fit to relinquish me from these binds." And you look at him, he looks like a lowly beggar, longish tattered hair, wearing just general tattered and soiled clothing, no shoes, feet look blistered and black.
Travis: Ugh. I'm going to call you Orn Blackfoot.
Matt: "Blackfoot it is, Orn Blackfoot at your service, if you could just--"
Travis: My name is Lord Grog.
Matt: "Lord. It is my pleasure." And he reaches through and grasps your hand, his fingers are bony and thin, and he takes it and shakes it with what little strength he has.
Travis: Man, you are looking a little rispy-- Pour out a little ale into a goblet, and I give him a goblet of ale.
Matt: He snatches it from you and slurps into it, extremely thirsty.
Travis: Ah-ah, not too fast, not too fast, don't want to get the bubbles. And I reach into the Bag of Holding and I have a dry food ration. I have three left. Now I have two. And I give him some dried food ration.
Matt: He takes it and eagerly starts jamming it into his mouth. As he's eating, he's not even talking at you, this is just sheer hunger, the need to survive has taken over and he's just cramming it in there, choking a couple of times, keeping himself okay.
Travis: Pace yourself, lad. Tell me, why are you in here, Orn Blackfoot?
Matt: "Ah, well, this is-- everyone just started yelling and they abandoned us all here. It's been terrible hearing the moans and screams going silent. I thought they abandoned us all."
Travis: No, they did, to be clear. They totally abandoned you. You are really the only person I know of that's in here. All the other mates around you, they're either sleeping or, you know.
Matt: "I appreciate the food and drink, you've certainly done--" At which point a voice comes from about two cells over behind you that goes-- "Did I hear food and drink?"
Travis: Fuck.
Matt: "Food-- food and drink, please. Please."
Travis: Orn, did you kill all those dried food rations just now, did you just--
Matt: You see him very discreetly pocket some in his robe. "Oh, everything you gave me is gone, I'm sorry, friend."
Travis: Man, what an appetite. Do you mind regurgitating a little like a momma bird into my hand?
Matt: "What?"
Travis: Never mind. Orn, don't, heh, don't move. And I walk over to see where the other voice is coming from.
Matt: Okay. As you turn around the way, there is the next set of bars, you see behind there a man in his forties, also extremely thin and gaunt, reddish long thin beard, long unkempt brownish red hair that is just crimped up around the base of it, like it's just gone almost into dreadlock territory from how long he's been in there and mistreated. You can see dried blood at the corner of his mouth. He looks up at you. "Sir, if you would be s-- Grog?" And the moment of recognition hits you, this is Abjurist Noja, whom you previously-- (yelling)
Travis: Abjurist is a very powerful-- he has knowledge of the arcane and stuff, right, he was--
Laura: He was the guy who saved us! He saved us when the white dragon came to Westruun.
Liam: I was frozen in ice. That guy!
Travis: I found us Boba Fett, sweet!
Matt: He looks pretty wrecked right now.
Laura: Oh shit, give him food, Grog!
Travis: Abjurist Nosebleed, hold on real quick, look. And I take the other, the second to last dry food ration, I give him that, and I give him a thing of ale, I'm like, I'm sorry, it's really dry.
Matt: "Thank you, friend, thank you very much."
Travis: Oh, yeah, you're very welcome! Hold on. Is there anybody else in this hallway before I give away my last bit of food?
Matt: You hear two voices simultaneously down the end of the hallway come in, one of which is a very weak female voice, the other is a very loud kind of-- "Hey, bring me food this way, please!" The other one is like, "Please, I ask of you, I'm starving." And you see these two hands come out of the two cells in the distance.
Travis: Right, I'm going to pick a number between one and ten. Ready? Go.
Matt: There's an awkward pause. "Three?" "Seven! Definitely seven!"
Travis: I lean over to Abjurist Noja, I say, I actually don't know any numbers, so. Y'know what, we're going to deliberate and we'll be with you in just a moment. (whispers) Abjurist, how old y--, why are you in here, who put you in here?
Matt: "I've only been in here for about a week. Got in an altercation in my store when these brutes started walking in. Threw me in here, didn't even let me take my spellbook."
Travis: Oh, that is a crime. I love b-- I can't even say it. Hold on, stay right there, I'll get you out-- And I walk back to Orn Blackfoot, I go, look, hey, so I gave you food, can you do anything, like, special?
Matt: "What?"
Travis: Like, can you make your hands turn to flame, can you disappear, are you really good with a bow and arrow?
Matt: "No! No." And he reaches out and grabbing at your clothes though and starts pulling you--
Travis: Hey! Orn, chill!
Matt: "But I have friends in many places, though. I can, I can get you things. I can make connections--"
Travis: Yeah, but most of the people in here are dead, right, like they're probably not--
Matt: "Not even here, Emon! I can get you anything you need from Emon. I can get you from Stillben. And Lansway, just name it and get me out of here and I can--"
Travis: How long has it been since you've been to Emon?
Matt: "Few months?"
Travis: You got any loved ones there?
Matt: "Why?"
Travis: I don't know, just asking, like, do you want me to take a note from you to them or something, you know.
Matt: "No, if you can release me, I'd be more than happy to take it myself if you don't mind."
Travis: Yeah, no, I'm still deliberating, sorry. Enjoy the food that you snuck in your jacket pocket. And I go back towards the front desk area. And I try and find any-- is there a lever on the wall to release the cells or can I look for keys?
Matt: You-- make an investigation check.
Travis: Fuck me.
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Your fate is in excellent hands. Oh shit, you're not dead! (laughter)
Travis: Minus two for a 17!
Matt: Ah! All righty. So. After spending the good part of an hour or so clamoring through, just throwing bookshelves over and (crashing) taking the desk and actually throwing it onto its back and pulling drawers out, this is Grog's method of investigation here, you're just--
Travis: Yeah, just trying some splinters of wood in the locks just in case.
Matt: Yeah, yeah. You break off a few forks in some locks.
Travis: (laughs) Forks, yeah.
Matt: In practice, yeah, whatever looks small enough and should fit, though it doesn't, but you make it fit. And it doesn't help. You do eventually find in one of the cells, closed and locked as you look by, there is one person in guard armor, in Westruun guard armor, that is in the cell. Not moving.
Travis: Hey. Hey, you. I kick him in the back a bit.
Matt: No movement.
Travis: I kick him harder.
Matt: No movement.
Travis: I look down the hallway. I back up a few steps. And I really run up and kick him really hard.
Matt: He just lurches over onto the side. Not moving.
Travis: Yeah, you're dead. Can I pat him down?
Matt: Yeah, you reach in and you can smell the decay starting to set in. And as you get close you can reach through the bars and see him, the actual area is closed and the door appears to be locked, and inspecting the body very quickly you can see that he was stabbed multiple times from behind and probably left in here to bleed out.
Travis: Low perception.
Matt: But you do find on him what appears to be a ring of keys. Not directly on his body, but underneath the corpse, like he was-- you gather best you can, someone probably grabbed it, got their way out, used that moment to stab him and escape.
Travis: Nice! I take the keys and I jauntily run by Orn Blackfoot and I go to Abjurist-- Hey, do you know who those other two voices are at the end of the hallway? Like, did you have anyone with you when you got put in here?
Matt: "No, no one with me. Although-- been plenty of angry discussion from that dwarven fellow down the way."
Travis: Yeah, he's got a really rough accent.
Matt: "I can hear you!"
Travis: Shit. My voice carries. Are you all right here for one minute? I have to go perform an interview real fast.
Matt: "I'm all right." And he just finishes eating the little bit of the ration that you gave him, like dried meats and bread.
Travis: All right, sit tight. All right, you two, put both your hands outside the cell where I can see them.
Matt: They both put their hands out. The dwarven man you can see puts his hand out, the skin is very wrinkled and you can see the varicose veins on it, the arm hair that you see on the dwarven arm is white, like bright white. The female hand comes out is thin, but the skin looks a little softer and younger.
Travis: Female elven, or is this female--
Liam: The daughter.
Travis: Who said three?
Matt: At this point, the dwarf voice goes, (incoherent semi-cursing).
Travis: I know, look, it's always lucky number three, right? That's what they say. Who says that?
Matt: "Racist little-- peh!" And the arms just withdraw, and the woman, "That's me, that's me."
Travis: Oh good. Hi. You look nice.
Matt: Look down, you see a young woman, maybe in her late teens, early twenties, long brown hair, tangled, covering one half of her face. You can see the edges of her lips are cracked from just dryness and lack of moisture. She's wearing, both of them actually are wearing just these long, simple cloth drape-over robes that are just, y'know, for any prisoners in here that need to not be wearing their normal clothing.
Travis: I've got three other goblets left, can I both give them a goblet and some ale, just to wet their lips and get a drink in?
Matt: They eagerly take it and begin scarfing it down, the dwarf's like, "Oh! That's nothing!" You can look at the dwarf now, he's elderly, crotchety, half-blind, one clouded eye, but for being a man who's been stuck in prison and slowly dying, he's got this wry grin on him at all times.
Travis: You're turning away good ale. Looks like you've seen many a moon.
Matt: "You're telling me that. But no, seriously, that's like half full. Come on, don't be stingy!"
Travis: I like your gall. And I pour more ale in.
Matt: "That's the ticket!" It's like spilling on the sides and getting stuck in his bright, bushy white beard, and each bit that dribbles down, he goes-- catches it and then pushes it back in, not wasting a single drop.
Travis: Beautiful. If you don't mind, ladies first, love, what is your name? Why are you in here?
Matt: "It's Amelia. I was taken because they were-- the beasts were dealing with an uprising from some of us farm folk and, well, they took me as leverage in the argument. Stopped their-- stopped their arguing."
Travis: You're-- you're farm folk?
Matt: "Yeah."
Travis: Do you have any family?
Matt: "I do."
Travis: What are their names?
Matt: "There's my father Reginald."
Laura: Oh no!
Travis: Sorry, I had a bit of split pea soup that's just disagreeing with me, it's all right. Yep.
Matt: "Are they okay, have you seen them? Have you seen any of the people out there?"
Travis: No, I-- we should get you out of here, there's really bad stuff going on outside, we're trying to get everyone out of the town.
Matt: And you hear a voice down the way say, "Everyone out of the town? That sounds like a great plan." And the dwarf behind you is like, "Well then, get us out! I'm sick of this cell!"
Travis: Yeah, just a minute, hold on. And so like. Hold on. Can I try the keys on Amelia's cell?
Matt: Mm-hmm. You go through the keyring, which probably has a good 40 or so different keys on it.
Travis: Shit.
Matt: And so you go through one, two, three, four, yeah.
Liam: Six, six, six.
Matt: (laughs) And what would be the late teens, and for what to you seems like forever, one key does (squeaking) in the lock and it opens. She, who's been like sitting down the whole time, stands up weakly and grabs the bars and pulls herself up and waits for you to let her through if she does, just being patient.
Travis: Amelia, if you would, please stay with me. Funny, I believe I heard of a man named Reginald. Very brave. Not sure where he is, but we're going to get you out of the city, just stay put for a moment.
Matt: "Okay."
Travis: All right, you, you salty bastard, what's your name?
Matt: "Old Davin. What's your name?"
Travis: Lord Grog. Emphasis on the Lord.
Matt: "Lord Grog."
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: "Lord of?"
Travis: The Vales of Strongjaw.
Matt: "I'll take it, that's fine. Get me out, please?"
Travis: Right. Oh, keys. Can I take the keyring and can I pry the metal keyring-- is it like one solid piece or is it the kind that I could maybe bend it open?
Matt: I mean, it is one solid piece that has been looped twice, but it has been-- the iron itself has been bent around itself to make it nice and tight, form-fit on one end. Go ahead and make a strength check.
Travis: 26.
Matt: Ping. (laughs) Like, you were preparing yourself for a full pull, and with but a minor twitch of your muscles it just bends open.
Travis: Can I take half the keys and give them to Amelia and say, love, would you go and let out the kind gentleman with the reddish beard and the little blood on his mouth named Abjurist, would you try these keys and see if his cell will open? Not yet for Mr. Blackfoot across the way.
Matt: "Right. I will, I will." She rushes off and starts fumbling through the keys, and you hear in the distance her making her way through the keys as--
Travis: I take the other half and start trying to get Da-- what was his name?
Matt: Old Davin.
Travis: Old, I like old.
Laura: Have we met Old Davin?
Matt: You have not met Old Davin, no.
Travis: Okay. Davin, what did you get put in here for?
Matt: "Right if I know! Got real drunk and woke up in here, everyone started screaming and running away, and I'm like ahh, run away you pansies, and they did, ran away, they never came back. Some packed fire, but not a problem now." And yes, the one snowblind eye doesn't move at all, the other one glances around, that one's completely stuck in a forward position.
Travis: Is that magic?
Matt: "I mean, certainly gets the ladies."
Travis: Yeah, it does.
Matt: "But no, it's a reminder to not, well, to not mess with your people."
Travis: Oh. Well, I'm sorry to hear that. But they do make you look very young.
Matt: "Much worse, say I."
Travis: Now if we let you out of here, right, which we're actually in the process of doing, what is your weapon of choice?
Matt: "Oh, oh." And he thinks to himself for a moment. "I would have to say my weapon of choice would be Bloodvine ale. Aye."
Travis: Bloodvine ale?
Matt: "Aye, if we're picking poison, that's my favorite."
Travis: Yeah, no, my-- He's a dwarf, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah. Obviously we are brothers of the beard. Like, to fight with, right?
Matt: "Oh, that kills, eh?"
Travis: Yeah, stab, poke, enchant, whatever.
Matt: "Once upon a time I was quite a duelist, so if you got something pointy and prickling I can spear 'em with the best of them."
Travis: I do have a Greatsword of Frenzy, but it's a two-handed weapon.
Matt: "Ah, that's not my preference."
Travis: I do also have one regular, just a regular longsword. About the best I have.
Matt: "Yeah, that'll do, certainly, I'll take a longsword."
Travis: All right, so. Have I got the door open yet?
Matt: Not yet. But at this time there's an awkward pause and now you're like, don't have any more conversation. But you still have to finish the-- about a minute later, he's sitting there going, "Come on, come on, come on." Eventually-- tink!-- it opens up. "Yes!" And he pushes it open as you pull it open.
Travis: Before I give you this sword--
Matt: "Aye?"
Travis: --are you up for the fight of your life?
Matt: "Yes?"
Travis: Can I insight check him?
Matt: Yes, you may.
Travis: This is going to go really well. Eight! Nine!
Liam: Go Tarv, go Tarv.
Matt: He seems a little--
Sam: Scottish. (laughter)
Matt: He seems a little malnourished, and a little confused.
Travis: Right.
Matt: But nothing sets you off as untrustworthy.
Travis: Look, your expression says a lot. What if I put an excellent meal in your belly, sharpened that sword some more, would you like to fight for some glory come the morrow?
Matt: "Sure. Why not?"
Travis: That's what I thought. If you would go join Amelia, I have to get my good friend Abjurist Noja out of his cell and then we're going to go have a meeting, because there's going to be a big feast tonight, it's going to be delicious.
Matt: "Oh, great, I'll be there for that, aye. Where's it happening?"
Travis: You know, it's very secret, yep. Secret location, TBD.
Matt: "Right, right. I'll wait for you." And he walks out, taking the keys from you as he runs off toward Amelia.
Travis: Now, has she gotten Abjurist out?
Matt: At this point, yeah, Noja has stepped out of the cell and is putting an arm on her, you see he's actually having a hard time standing and she's helping support him, even though she's having a hard time standing. (Skype noise)
Matt: There goes Taliesin.
Travis: Man, I know a lot of people that are going to be really, really happy to see you.
Matt: "Ah. Really? Well, I'm very happy to see these people, anybody really, that're not the inside of this blasted prison." (coughs) (Skype rings)
Liam: Oh, get him, get him!
Laura: Quick, answer it!
Liam: Stupid tinkerer.
Sam: I'm trying, I'm trying!
Liam: Percival and his technology.
Matt: There we go. Welcome back.
Laura: Hi Percy.
Taliesin: Hi.
Travis: Could I ask you a question? So I have this new axe, right, it's really nice. I got it off the leader of goliaths, real prick. It's really strong and I've known about it for years, there's nothing, like, funny about-- Actually, if I give this to you, would you just tell me if you, like, hear anything?
Matt: "Ah, they took my spellbook when they threw me in here."
Travis: Oh.
Matt: "If we could find that, maybe I can help you."
Travis: That makes sense.
Matt: "Otherwise, I'm out of tricks, friend, sorry."
Travis: All right. I turn around to Orn Blackfoot and I'm like, "All right, mate. Last chance. Why should I let you out?"
Matt: "Because I can be a good friend and help you out. I can get you money and women and travel anywhere you wish."
Travis: I've done all three of those things more than most men do in three lifetimes.
Matt: "And you can have a fourth! Please, just let me out of here."
Travis: I'm thinking of a number between one and three.
Sam: He's not.
Matt: "Two."
Travis: Shit. (laughter)
Travis: That's like only one of a couple that I know. All right. You get to come out.
Matt: "Ah, wonderful. Thank you, thank you, thank you. And I'm a man of my word, don't you worry."
Travis: Can I insight check if he's a man of his word?
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: Roll better. Shit fuck balls ass. Three.
Matt: Three. Seems legit. (laughter)
Travis: You have a face that is truly trustworthy. And I start looking for the key to his cell.
Matt: Okay. At this point, you've run through the ring enough, you can go ahead and take it from Old Davin. Over time you eventually get him free, and as soon as you do, he stretches, cracks his back a bit. "All right. Thank you kindly. So. Let's be off." And he charges up next to Noja and then breezes past them and you guys all exit the outside of the Iron Stocks.
Laura: Look for Noja's book, look for Noja's book.
Travis: Oh, yeah, well. Noja, Noja, is there a location where your spellbook was last? (belches)
Matt: "They took it from me when they arrested me. I don't know where they would have put it."
Travis: Yeah, well, goliaths are awfully fond of books. Let's go find out, shall we? And we go back towards where I guess everybody last was.
Matt: Okay. On the way there, Noja's like, "I do have one of my older spellbooks, wouldn't have all of my materials, but that would be back at my shop if we ever have a chance to stop by."
Travis: Well, we could go there now if you'd like.
Matt: "Certainly."
Travis: How far is it from here? I forget, it's been a few years.
Matt: "Oh, it's about-- just due east of where the temples are, about 25, 30 minutes up that way."
Travis: Hold that thought. I grab my earring and I say, can anybody hear me?
Sam: Can we?
Matt: At this point, yeah, the Stocks aren't too far. Whoever's--
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: What's up, Grog?
Travis: Right, so. What if I told you I found somebody's name that rhymes with Daburish Koja?
Liam: You found Dabney Coleman?
Laura: Dabdrist Cojo?
Travis: It's Abjurist Noja.
All: Oh!
Marisha: Man, I didn't realize 'til now how many people we actually know whose name rhymes with that.
Travis: Yeah, we're like really important.
Marisha: Yeah, we know a lot of people.
Travis: So I'm going to take him to find his spellbook, because I feel like he could be a great--
Taliesin: I don't recall this person.
Travis: You don't?
Marisha: Weren't you with us, Percy?
Matt: Yeah, Percy met him.
Taliesin: Was I?
Marisha: Yeah, remember the guy who saved us at the first Winter's Crest festival?
Taliesin: Oh yes, no, he was quite lovely.
Marisha: Yeah, he's very nice.
Travis: Yeah, I found him. I'm going to get him a spellbook. Does anybody want to come with, or are you all good?
Marisha: I'm about to dig a trench, so I'll pass.
Liam: Keyleth, where are you right now?
Marisha: Heading northeast towards, northwest, northwest. Sorry. It's noon, it's hard to tell in the sky right now. Northwest.
Laura: Are you with us, Pike?
Ashley: Yeah, yeah.
Laura: Pike's with us.
Ashley: I'm done attuning?
Matt: Yeah, the attunement takes about an hour or so, half an hour to an hour.
Ashley: Yeah, I just found you guys, just hanging out.
Laura: Hey, what's up. You want to help us clear some stuff?
Ashley: You need some help? Yeah, let me help you, I'm so strong.
Sam: Um, Grog, I can come with you, Grog, if you need some help.
Travis: Yes. The cube is always welcome.
Liam: My. Goodness. Gracious.
Travis: Please. It's more like a Coke can. Okay. Um.
Liam: A what?
Travis: What? So, Scanlan, if you want to come meet us, we're over by the Iron thing. How would I tell him where we are?
Matt: Iron Stocks, you can describe it to him and eventually he'll find his way there.
Travis: I'm over by this thing balalalala.
Sam: Excellent description, I'm on my way.
Matt: (laughs) And you've been to the town before, you guys have spent some time in Westruun, so you know the basics around. So you manage to meet up with these fellas and you make your way northward into the outskirts of Noja's shop. Noja's shop is untouched by the battle, it seems, still stands.
Marisha: Oh, shit. Really?
Matt: He walks up and the door's open and looks inside and just sighs heavily, as the interior of this place has been picked clean.
Marisha: Ah, son of a fucking-- looters!
Sam: Noja, were there any hidden compartments or secret safes where you kept the good stuff?
Matt: "Well. Follow me." And he heads towards the back of the shop, heads into a room in the side which contains his bed and his personal setup. That door's kicked in, there was a lock on it, the lock's still hanging as part of the door contraption as the actual door was just kicked inward and the wood splintered and left open. He steps inside, feels above the doorway. There's a panel of wood that he pulls aside and brings out. There is a singular book, where he pulls it out and sighs, blows dust off it. "Ah, this is a bit rudimentary for what I require, but it's something, it's better than nothing." Puts it aside, manages to find some pieces of his clothing that have been tossed onto the floor as a heap or, you know, raiding the room and gets out of his prison robes and puts them over that to just go ahead and not be as tattered as he looked. He does pull what looks like a small jug from it and sets that aside, and he looks around his room, (sighs) "I guess let's see if there's anything in the shop that still remains." Steps around the way. Oof. All right. Yeah, most everything of worth appears to have been taken or broken.
Laura: Search around, help him search!
Travis: Yeah, is there anything we can help you find that you're looking for?
Matt: "Anything intact, really."
Travis: Yeah, can we help him look for any vials, or--
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: Better. 17.
Sam: 16.
Matt: 16, okay. Looking around, most everything is ruined, destroyed, or missing, however you do find what looks to be two unspoiled, undestroyed vials that were part of a display set that has been tossed over the side. Most of the fluid contained in these vials, like corks have been left open, glass and crystal have been shattered, and the contents had just stained the floor and dried over time into little sticky pools of different colors. You do find two, one of which is a yellowish fluid that's streaked with black swirls, and there is one that it's like a clear liquid that has a-- the liquid itself fills the vial and then shrinks down to a tiny bead and then expands again to fill the vial, like a very, very slow heartbeat. Those are the two that you find.
Travis: What?
Marisha: Yellow with black swirls, and then a clear potion that--
Sam: Oh, he'll just tell us, I assume. Sir, we're about to embark on a deadly adventure to try to clear this town so that you can once again live here safely. Might we trouble you to borrow these potions if they can be in some way helpful to us?
Matt: "You've done me great service by getting me out of that hellhole. You are welcome to take these with you for now. I guess I have to start from scratch..."
Sam: Do you know what they are?
Matt: "Oh, yes, I'm sorry, I'm sorry." And he takes the vials and looks at them. "Ah, this is a Potion of Diminution. It shrinks you to a smaller size."
Sam: Oh, I could be small! Oh, wait.
Matt: "It only lasts for a few hours, depending, the magic isn't perfect, but it does make you smaller. This other one, this vial contains a liquid that will make you quite speedier. It will increase your metabolism for a short time, the world around you seems to slow, it's quite effective."
Sam: Thank you so, so much.
Travis: Yeah actually, have you ever seen this shrinking potion work, like, how small does something get?
Matt: "Pretty small. Like, if on your size--" And he makes a shape of about that big.
Sam: So teeny-tiny.
Matt: "For you, yes. For you, you'd be about his size."
Travis: That would be the best thing ever. Now that you've found-- I'm sorry, go ahead.
Sam: No no no. This is most helpful. Do you know anywhere also around here where we might pick up some chains, hooks, spears, javelins?
Matt: "Ah, those are not my forte, my apologies."
Sam: All right.
Marisha: Should've took those from the prison.
Matt: "I mean, check a general goods store, perhaps?"
Sam: Oh no, this is so helpful, thank you, let me go get those.
Matt: So here are your potions.
Travis: That book that you got, it's not your favorite, right, the one that was hidden above the door?
Matt: "No, no, but it'll do, at least. Do you wish me to inspect that weapon for you?"
Travis: Yeah, would you mind? I've never done that before, but the last one I had talked to me.
Matt: "That's... unsettling. That's very unsettling."
Travis: Yeah, among other things.
Matt: The dwarf and the woman are still waiting at the door, they've picked through things and they're finding bits of broken glass and over time they can't find anything else. He takes the hour to rest and regains, after some quick preparation, the use of at least his Identify spell. Takes the axe, holds it for a moment, chants some incantation that you don't understand. There's a brief glow on the weapon, and around the outskirts of his fingers, a brief glow around his temples. As it fades, he goes, "Hm. Well, if what you worry about is the presence of some sort of sentience, I can assure you, you need not worry. This is merely a tool, and a powerful one at that." And he begins to tell you what it does, which is exactly what you already know after attunement.
Travis: No long card coming? (laughs)
Matt: No.
Travis: Son of a bitch. Thank you, Abjurist, you are as wise as you are. Old.
Marisha: Old? (laughs)
Matt: "I'm only 48, but thank you."
Travis: That's lost on me. Do you need anything else?
Sam: Oh, oi, oi, I was just-- I'm enthralled by these potions, they're fantastic, and I'm enthralled and so happy that we met you again and all that. I totally remembered who you were. (laughter)
Matt: "It's good to see that you're all doing fine, considering the circumstances. Stay safe. I'll pick up what pieces I can."
Sam: Should you get-- should we tell him to get out of the city or fight with us?
Travis: Well, I was going to ask, you do know what is beset upon this city, right? The horrible calamity that's coming?
Matt: "I saw the dragon tear through, yes."
Sam: We aim to finish the dragon, maybe even tomorrow, and make Westruun free once again. Would you have any interest in aiding us in this fight, or are you past the point of putting up a brave battle?
Matt: And you see him standing there, even just standing here this time, his knees are wobbling a bit, and he goes, "I'm afraid I wouldn't be of much aid at this moment without my proper spellbook. I have a few child's treats at my disposal." And he sifts through a few pages and he seems to-- the book looks like it's pretty old, like probably his training manual when he first began to study as a practitioner of the magical arts. "I don't know how much use I'd be, unfortunately."
Travis: The day's still young. What say we give, like, a solid effort to finding your bigger books, and then if you can't find it and you can lend no aid to us, we'll make sure you find yourself safely on your way?
Matt: "All right. All right, fair enough. Well come, let us look. Perhaps we should give another once-over of the rather seemingly destroyed interior of that prison."
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Looks like Amelia and Old Davin have nothing else better to do, they begin to aid you for a bit, although Amelia is eager, and mentions the possibility of going and checking in on the farmsteads on the outside of town.
Marisha: Yeah. About that.
Matt: Orn? Orn Blackfoot? Gone.
Marisha: Yeah, figured that much.
Matt: He has peaced.
Travis: He left.
Matt: Yeah. You guys take a moment, and when you start deciding what to do, and you look around and he's just gone.
Sam: I thought you had him.
Travis: I thought you had him. I clearly said when you came up, watch the guy with the black feet. What'd you do?
Sam: I was watching you, you have disgusting black feet. You walk around barefoot, you're disgusting.
Travis: I really can't argue with that. (laughter)
Travis: Well. Whatever. I saved a life, go me. I'll take it later. Yeah, so can we go back to the prison, not to take away from everything else, and maybe look for chains, like some hooks, maybe some broken bars?
Matt: Yeah. The two of you guys, make one more investigation check, this'll signify the next few hours of looking for the things you want.
Laura: Oh god, roll really good.
Sam: 22.
Travis: 19.
Matt: Between the two of you, working into and past dusk, you manage to acquire quite a number of chains. It's funny, a prison seems to have a lot at their disposal. They have a queue of chains that are used of various lengths, some of them may have to be put together to make the length of which you're looking for, but between ramshackle manacles to just lengths of chain that are used to opening gates and used to seal elements of the subterranean portion of this prison, you manage to acquire quite a bit. You do, towards the end of the evening, manage to find partially destroyed remnants of Noja's spellbook. He seems a little disappointed as soon as he sees the state it's in, a lot of the pages have been burnt and torn out of these--
Travis: I am sorry.
Matt: "Ah, it's all right, there are some here that are of use to me. And if I can be of any assistance tomorrow in this fray, hopefully at a distance-- How big is this dragon, you said?"
Travis: Oh, it's like seven feet.
Matt: "Oh, well then I can definitely be of help there, not a worry, all right. I'll prepare myself best I can."
Travis: Yeah. We'll make sure, we'll keep you on the outsides with those that are not, you know, can't take a good walloping.
Sam: Do you have any healing potions or anything, or I mean, I'm sorry, healing spells?
Matt: "That's not my specialty, I fear, and the potions I had are now soaking in the floorboards of my humble shop."
Travis: Not that I would understand, but could you tell us what your specialty is?
Matt: "Abjuration, of course. That's the school of magic of which my--" (laughs)
Sam: I'm familiar with that.
Travis: Abjur--yeah. Mm-hmm. No idea what that means.
Liam: Like Claymation.
Travis: Oh, like puppets. I'm a big fan of puppets.
Sam: All right, well, we'll get some rest, try to put the pieces of your place back together.
Matt: "I will. Come to me when the time is ready to face this fiend, this foul creature, and I'm happy to help."
Sam: Good night.
Travis: Oh yeah, we should probably make him a part of the feast.
Sam: Oh. All right.
Travis: We'll come get you later tonight.
Matt: "All right."
Liam: I'm going to track down the women after talking to them over the earring.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Straight from Percival, once I catch sight of them, can I talk to you for a minute?
Marisha: Sure.
Liam: Just a minute, I know you're busy. Um.
Laura: She's super busy, brother!
Liam: Yeah, two minutes. Two minutes. Um.
Laura: So busy.
Liam: Thanks, Stubbs. You're way more powerful than I am, and I don't know what I'm going to-- (Skype noise)
Sam: God dammit.
Liam: What's that sound?
Marisha: So many noises happening.
Liam: You're going to be doing a lot more damage than I am tomorrow, it's not like I'm going to run up and stab the thing in the back. I feel like you're probably going to be too busy to be using Fassbender--
Marisha: Yeah, do you want Fassbender? I was actually going to offer him to you, 'cause I feel like you might--
Liam: I think I want to be of use, so yeah.
Marisha: I'm pretty sure you don't have to worry about that.
Laura: (gagging)
Liam: So it just goes on the head, then how does it work, what do you, what do I talk to it or do I think it or what do I do?
Marisha: So you give it a command, it takes your full concentration to give it a command, and then once you do that it will enact that plan until it's complete or until you tell it otherwise.
Liam: All right.
Marisha: And if you wanted to cast a Slow spell, just, you have to focus and tell it to do that.
Liam: Okay. Do I say like, slow?
Marisha: You know, I don't know. Just wing it. I kept talking to him like it was a person and I don't think that's necessarily the way to go.
Liam: Maybe I'll prac-- where did you park him?
Marisha: It's still in Scanlan's mansion.
Liam: Oh.
Laura: Is that still there?
Sam: Yes?
Matt: Well, based on the time that spell was cast, the 24-hour duration has expired. All things in the mansion have been jettisoned from the doorway.
Laura: Including your grandad!
Marisha: So he's in Wilhand's house, with Wilhand.
Liam: Great, well, I'll take that.
Marisha: Yeah. Hopefully Wilhand's watching over him right now, actually.
Sam: It might have destroyed the house.
Marisha: It might've destroyed Wilhand's house. Yeah.
Liam: Kiki.
Marisha: Yes? (Skype noises)
Liam: What is that?
Marisha: This is the weirdest field. (Taliesin makes noises on Skype) (laughter)
Liam: Percy. Tinker quietly, please. (Taliesin makes louder noises on Skype) (laughter)
Liam: I think he's eating popcorn, or maybe opening a butterscotch candy in the theater.
Taliesin: I can't even see you guys, are you like?
Laura: Oh, he went away! Aw, this is just not--
Liam: Okay, really quickly.
Laura: Okay. Well, at least he started.
Marisha: Yes? This seems to happen all the time, every time we try to talk to each other. I don't think I've really, continue, continue. It's hard to have a conversa--
Taliesin: Hi.
Matt: Continue, please.
Liam: Hello, yeah, Percival, I'll talk to you in a minute, all right?
Marisha: Shut up, Percy. Thank you.
Liam: Ah. I've been confused. I am confused. But. And I take her by the hand.
Liam: It wasn't fair, last week. It wasn't fair to you. And I'm sorry.
Marisha: What are you talking about?
Liam: In your room, in your room. Me leaving wasn't--
Marisha: When you left me, right--
Liam: --wasn't fair.
Marisha: Yeah, no, that I remember. Yeah, that. Yeah. Yeah yeah yeah.
Liam: That's it. I'm sorry.
Marisha: I'm sorry if I dropped that on you, and put any more undue stress, that's not what I want--
Liam: This is awful, all of it is awful.
Marisha: This is awful. Yeah, no, this is pretty bad. You know, I've actually been wanting to talk to you. I wasn't entirely planning on now. I know you've been struggling. I know you feel like you're drowning, and I'm sorry that the Raven Queen chose you, but she did choose you. You know, as druids, I was raised to have an interesting perspective on the gods. We are taught that nature is the one true powerful force. I have yet to see a god control the sunrise and the sunset, so therefore it's hard for me to sometimes have the same faith in these gods. Personally, I believe that just because you're immortal doesn't make you infallible. These gods can be great ambassadors of their virtues and what they represent, or they can be horrible disgraces to their domains. And just because some self-proclaimed person or deity decides that they want control? Doesn't mean that they have to have control over me. Now, this does not mean that I do not respect the gods and the power that they wield, but, I mean, for the love of Sarenrae, we have seen Pike do many a powerful thing. So, therefore, I do not respect the gods any more than I respect the living people who are standing beside me at this moment. So I've also been coming to terms with the fact that it seems that, whether we like it or not, we are going to have to employ their services. Looks like we're going to have to be working with them in some way or another, myself included, if we are going to overcome this. So maybe you should start rethinking the way you look at your relationship to the Raven Queen. Maybe this can be a fine partnership. A fine endeavor to do with her, and then once we save the world and we retire and some other young prodigies come forward to save the world again, then we can thank her for her services and move on. I don't think we'll always need her. I don't think you will always need her. And, keep in mind, the one true thing that gives these gods their power are their worshipers. So I guess I'll let you choose what you want to be. And I walk off to catch up with the ladies.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Did you guys make out? Was it really fun? Lots of making out there?
Marisha: Vax. Vex. Vex.
Laura: I understand you have him on your mind. You can't get our names straight.
Marisha: You know, I was talking to him, so-- Hey. I love you a whole lot.
Laura: Do you still think you're talking to my brother?
Marisha: I know who I'm talking to.
Liam: Really similar.
Sam: She's the ranger.
Ashley: Did you ask him if he's going to help us?
Marisha: Who? Vax? Oh.
Ashley: Vax. Is he going to help dig the trench?
Laura: I turn around and see him. Is he just standing there?
Matt: Just standing there lost in thought, yeah.
Laura: Um, hey.
Liam: What?
Laura: Hey, what are you doing? Are you coming to help us, or are you just standing in the middle--
Liam: Yeah, we gotta kill a dragon tomorrow. We gotta kill a dragon. What do you need?
Laura: Do you want to help build, I don't know, a trench? Set a trap?
Liam: I mean, I'm really weak, but I think I can use a shovel.
Laura: What time is it? We haven't even started digging the trench yet? What fucking time is it?
Marisha: It'll take me like an hour. It's fine. What time is it?
Matt: For you guys, at this point, it'd probably be mid-afternoon, late afternoon. Percy. I need you to go ahead and make three tinkering checks for me, if you don't mind.
Sam: Oh, shit.
Matt: The first one is using your intelligence modifier.
Taliesin: That's intelligence modifier plus proficiency bonus plus tinkering?
Matt: Well, proficiency bonus is what you get with tinkering.
Taliesin: Yeah. 24. (cheering)
Matt: All right, so, initial designs and describing with your lackeys, for lack of a better term, that are helping you develop these springs, you manage to explain, lay out, and develop the proper materials, the process, and they seem to acknowledge and understand what you're trying to do, and you guys begin the work. Second check is going to be with your dexterity modifier.
Taliesin: Oh yeah, baby.
Sam: No one can help him on these things?
Laura: We're not there.
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: You spend the better part of the day helping them take the metal, strengthen it, bind it, pulling it into the springs that are required. You complete one, you get partway through the second one. Make a final check if you don't mind.
Travis: With dex?
Matt: This is also with dex, yeah.
Laura: Come on.
Taliesin: That's 23.
Matt: 23?
Taliesin: Yeah, it's the dexterity, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: So yeah, that's right, 23.
Matt: 23. As the evening comes into about ten or 11 o'clock at night, after hours of aching work, sweat beads dripping down the foreheads of the three of you, forcing the furnace to work overtime. The room's heat and darkness eventually almost puts you to a point of exhaustion and passing out. However, you do manage to complete the springs. They seem to be functional, the structure of your trap is set. We shall see on the morrow if it is as functional as you hope it is. You do take a point of exhaustion through the work that will consist throughout the next day.
Taliesin: Okay. What does a point of exhaustion do?
Matt: Disadvantage on ability checks. So, essentially, any skill checks or ability checks you make-- not attacks or saves, but ability checks you make for the next 24 hours will be at disadvantage.
Laura: Did he work all the way through the night?
Matt: No, this is just the physical activity involved in getting it done in that short period of time.
Taliesin: Just double-checking, because I have no brain currently, dice roll, dex modifier, proficiency bonus?
Matt: What?
Taliesin: Just because I have no brain, dex modifier, proficiency bonus, dice roll?
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: Okay, good.
Matt: You're good, you got it. As you guys find yourselves resting for tomorrow's trap incursion and hopeful defeat of Umbrasyl, we will take a break for the rest of you and come back here.
Laura: Oh, god! There's more we have to do!
Sam: It's okay, we'll do it during the break.
Matt: We'll come back in. We need a pee break. Quick one, guys. [break]
Matt: And welcome back. So, as you're preparing for this, what else do you guys need to do before the morrow?
Marisha: I dig a trench.
Matt: All right, so you dig the trench.
Marisha: I want it to be far away to where there's a tunnel and then make a circle around it.
Laura: We need to get Fassbender into the middle where the treasure's going to be.
Liam: I walk Fassbender out and I lay him down on his back, face-up.
Marisha: We have to do some stage-setting here. We have to set the scene.
Matt: Okay, as a note, when you return to Willhand's house, Fassbender and Willhand were both ejected from the doorway. Fassbender doesn't fit in that large room and wrecked part of the staircase from underneath but is fine. As soon as you acknowledge Fassbender to start moving, Fassbender, who has been inert this entire time, since left there for the evening before, takes a step and the area where the crack that you sealed earlier reopens. It looks like there is a minimal magical effect that was more of a cosmetic effect in the healing, but being a construct, it does not actually heal damage from it.
Marisha: Okay. Can I go ahead and take this time to do--
Sam: You're not there.
Marisha: Oh, I'm not there yet? Oh no, I'm building a tunnel. You're getting Fassbender. Never mind.
Liam: Yeah, I'm walking Fassbender out to where Keyleth is.
Matt: Okay. (stomping) Fassbender follows you out to that area of the town. As night has come now, the sun has gone, you guys are working in darkness. What are you guys doing?
Ashley: Vex, can I have one of your arrows? I want to make it real special.
Laura: You're speaking my language.
Ashley: Okay, so I grab one of her arrows and I cast Glyph of Warding on one of her arrows.
Laura: How many arrows can you do that do?
Ashley: I think just one.
Sam: Matt's checking his e-mail.
Matt: Within an object that can be closed, such as a book, scroll, or treasure chest. So yeah, it would have to be on something that, like a doorway or--
Marisha: Like a treasure chest? If-- can you cast it in like a barrel that he's going to break open?
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: Thanks. I really enjoyed the idea of that.
Ashley: I thought it was going to work. It was going to be real cool.
Matt: So, you decide what triggers the glyph when you cast the spell. For glyphs inscribed in a surface, the most typical triggers include touching or standing on the glyph, removing another object covering the glyph, approaching within a certain distance of the glyph, so you could place this in theory on the ground near where the treasure's being left and give it the specific trigger for it to go off.
Laura: It can be maybe in a chest above Fassbender, 'cause he's going to be buried, and then it can be triggered maybe when the dragon lifts it up.
Marisha: What exactly does it do, the Glyph of Warding?
Matt: You can choose explosive runes--
Ashley: An explosive rune.
Marisha: Oh, so it, (explosion). That's cool.
Matt: 5d8 acid damage, cold damage, fire, or lightning or thunder damage. Your choice. Everything within a 20-foot-sphere radius around it.
Laura: 20 feet is really big. Oh my god! You know what you could do? You could make a trigger if he gets a certain height off the ground, and that way if he's over 20 feet above the ground, then it triggers and he's the only thing that would get affected.
Matt: Well, it triggers as a glyph, so whatever's near the glyph would be affected.
Ashley: So can we hide it in the loot?
Matt: You can, you can definitely choose some sort of a small chest or the ground underneath the loot if you want to.
Ashley: Okay. I'll find something in the loot, some little chest or something that I can put it in.
Matt: Okay, and what's your trigger?
Ashley: When he gets-- if he starts to fly away.
Matt: Okay. So if a creature-- the trigger would be, if a creature--
Liam: Pulls the glyph up?
Matt: That's up to you. What would you like the trigger to be?
Sam: Specific.
Ashley: If he removes something on top of it. But also if he grabbed it.
Laura: What if it gets above a certain feet in the air? Can it trigger then?
Matt: You can say if a creature flies above it at a certain height it can trigger. I'll give you that, yeah.
Ashley: Okay. So if it flies--
Matt: If it flies 20 feet above it?
Laura: I thought it meant if the glyph lifted in the air.
Matt: We'll make that one of the triggers if you want it to be lifted. So, if the glyph is lifted by a creature--
Ashley: So it can't be if he just touches it?
Matt: You could do that, yeah.
Laura: But it might be better if he lands and then we spring the trap. It could be a thing, if he tries to leave it explodes.
Ashley: If he tries to leave.
Matt: Okay. So, if the object is lifted off the ground, it triggers.
Ashley: Yeah. Even like this much? If it's just moved.
Matt: Okay, and you're doing explosive rune. What type of damage?
Ashley: I want to do cold damage.
Laura: Would I know, is a black dragon-- does it have any weaknesses?
Matt: You would know, with your knowledge and specialization, it does not have any weaknesses.
Laura: It has no weaknesses.
Matt: It is immune to acid damage, of course. But that is the only real information you have.
Travis: Make it acid damage. (laughter)
Ashley: I'm going to go cold damage.
Matt: Cold damage. All righty.
Laura: What about Fassbender? Is he immune to any damage?
Marisha: I'm pretty sure he's immune to most kinds of damage.
Liam: No, it's hitting and slicing. I'll check.
Ashley: I'm going to cast it at fifth level.
Matt: Fifth level? All right. That brings it to 7d8 cold damage. And what's your spell DC?
Ashley: 17.
Marisha: If we lose Fassbender--
Liam: He's expendable. Hopefully he survives. If not, good cause.
Laura: Can we fuse some chains into Fassbender so that he can be attached to the ground?
Marisha: I can. Can I do that? Right now?
Matt: Using what?
Marisha: I want to take and cast a Stone Shape spell, and then I want to open and almost make him a chain harness that's embedded into his waist? And then while I'm at it, can I patch him up?
Matt: Stone Shape is instantaneous. So whatever you want to do, it happens immediately. So, essentially, you could, with one casting of Stone Shape, seal the wound. With another casting of it you could then go ahead and have the chains--
Laura: Ready to go (squishing).
Matt: Yeah, just embed them in and have it seal. How many chains are you embedding in it?
Laura: Two big ones?
Matt: Two big chains? Okay. So you get two of the heaviest chains that you can find, which you probably got from the prison.
Marisha: All right, well, how about this? Vax, Vex, grab a chain.
Laura: All right. These are heavy.
Marisha: Okay, ready? On my go.
Laura: Wait, where are we putting it?
Marisha: I'm going to shove them in his abdomen. Okay? I'm going to make a spot and just--
Laura: You take left. I'll take right.
Liam: Okay.
Marisha: Ready?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. As she does that, suddenly the chest wound opens up into these two big cavities. You take the chain edges and put them inside as they seal around them. There's now these two giant, heavy, door-holding chains that are now dangling for about 70 feet on each end from his abdomen.
Laura: Where do we attach these chains to? The ground?
Liam: One to the ground. Put the other one in a goliath's hands with a harpoon or a hook on the other end. Snag our prey, and then we have a Fassbender hanging from the bottom of a dragon.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: You can find some metallic hooks just through general construction materials in the town if you want to.
Liam: I think we should do ten or 15 feet to the ground of chain and ten or 15 feet to the dragon, so that it's, thunk, and he's caught on the ground.
Laura: Just ten.
Liam: Yeah?
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: Yeah, we'll sever the chains with Grog's muscles. We need to get 'em the right distance.
Matt: About how long?
Liam: Ten feet into the ground, which we can--
Marisha: Do it right now. Ready? I'm going to do another Stone Shape spell into the ground.
Matt: You have to go around and find an area, because a lot of it's dirt. You have to find an area that has actual stonework in the ground. Otherwise, it's just earth that's pulling it. Go ahead and roll a survival check.
Marisha: Not bad. What's my survival? 24.
Matt: 24, okay. You take some time. It's about 60 feet out from where the drop point is, is the nearest piece of near-surface stone. It's about 15 feet beneath the surface, but it is viable.
Marisha: Negative. I will cast--
Laura: Why can't it be 15 feet below the surface?
Liam: But he's going to go up like a kite now because it's going 60 feet all the way over there, where stone is.
Marisha: I'm going to burn-- I did that earlier, but I'm going to burn my last 5th-level spell to do Transmute Rock again?
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: So you said there was dirt? All right, let's dig a little bit of a hole real quick. So we dig a hole ten feet down.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Put the chain in there. Cover it back up. Transmute. Turn it into rock.
Matt: Okay, and with that, the earth-- Okay, what is the radius of that one there? Let me see.
Sam: We have to cover this up.
Liam: With dirt?
Marisha: And treasure.
Matt: Transmute Rock-- 40-foot cube. You turn that into a solid fucking subterranean block of stone. All righty. Now you have Fassbender just there, stuck to the ground with the chain at its side.
Liam: Fassbender, lie down. Lie down?
Marisha: Can I take my last little bit of Stone Shape residual energy and take that mustache Vax drew on--
Matt: Stone Shape does not--
Marisha: And make the mustache permanent that he drew on with charcoal?
Matt: Sure, I'll let that slide. With the remnants of the spell magic fading, the now-lying-down Fassbender staring up with his vacant sunken blue-glowing eyes towards the night sky and the stars above, your hand reaches across the face, and with that suddenly the--
Marisha: I like this, I want to keep it, there we go.
Matt: --the once-charcoaled curly mustache recedes into the face, carved permanently to his face.
Marisha: You look much better now, Fassbender. High-five.
Liam: Give Keyleth a very soft high-five, please.
Marisha: Yeah! Isn't that cool?
Matt: That'll probably bruise tomorrow.
Marisha: It's okay. It's cool.
Liam: I quickly take that same charcoal out and I write in Common on his chest: Conclave or bust. (laughter)
Sam: I'm going to go to Keyleth and ask if I can borrow the rod of immovable rodness. How big is it?
Matt: It's like that long. It's like the rung of a ladder.
Sam: Got it.
Matt: It's got a little button on the side.
Sam: Button on the side? Cool.
Taliesin: Like a Tron lightbike.
Sam: I love it.
Laura: When are we going to set the trap that Percy made?
Liam: As soon as he finishes it.
Marisha: Yeah, we should set the stage.
Taliesin: In theory, it has to be laid down underneath all the treasure so that it just is nothing, and then we put everything on top, and then basically it's set, and then pins get pulled so that it's set. And you don't disturb shit again.
Marisha: Hey Percy, we're ready to fly in the trap whenever you are.
Taliesin: Yes, let's do that, gentlemen. Let's move it. Good work, ladies and gentlemen.
Marisha: While you guys set the trap, I'm going to turn into a raven. My job is done here. I'm going to just go and circle while they're setting the trap and setting the stage and do patrol and make sure we're not being watched.
Matt: Okay, make a perception check.
Laura: Why this creepy music?
Sam: It's random, guys.
Ashley: Why is he doing his eyebrows up and down?
Laura: Because the fucking dragon's going to see us right now.
Marisha: 16.
Matt: 16?
Marisha: No, sorry. 15.
Matt: 15. You circle for a while and keep watch. So far, nothing seems to have caught your attention that's out of the ordinary. About half an hour passes before you see a group of civilians, along with Percy, wheeling on carts this large ramshackle construction made of support beams from houses, metal joints that were used as basic construction elements, as well as these large metallic springs on multiple sides with hooks and elements of a chain-based net that has been piecemealed together. Eventually you guys bring it over. You clear out the area.
Laura: Fassbender will lay on top of the trap.
Matt: Fassbender will lay on top of the trap?
Laura: Right? He can't lay under the trap.
Sam: Well if it's like a mousetrap, can't he lie in between it? Taliesin, how does it work?
Marisha: Let's just keep him right off to the side because if that trap triggers--
Taliesin: In theory, he should be able to fit right at the sides of it, because it's got an armature spring system. As long as you're not in the way of the armatures, you should be fine.
Matt: So you set it up and away, laying the sides down, precariously putting the pins in, holding it in an open position. You begin to take dirt, dust, and gathering up the area, trying to hide it to the best of your ability. Who is in charge of camouflaging this piece?
Marisha: Go ranger, go ranger, go!
Matt: Make a survival check.
Travis: "Which dice will I use? There's no way to choose."
Sam: Can I aid her in this bit of camouflage?
Laura: You want to sing me some inspiration?
Sam: Can I inspire her?
Matt: Sure, what do you want to sing?
Sam: (singing) R-r-ranger, turn and face the strange! R-r-ranger, looks like you're going to have to hide this shit! Time may save me, but I hope you-- also do-- (laughter)
Laura: 31.
Matt: 31. You guys take a good portion of the next hour or so, under her guidance and tutelage, hiding this entire trap, getting dirt, the top layer of sand to cover it so it looks like it hasn't been recently disturbed--
Laura: Little Dust of Tracelessness.
Matt: Little Dust of Tracelessness to fill in and smooth out any of the ripples of any possible passage that has come through. Fassbender has been-- (crash)
Matt: Killed. Buried beneath the surface, just to the point where he's pretty much flush with the ground of where it is. Contraption set, the objects placed back inside with some of the barrels and some of the leftover pieces of wood, the one overturned cart. You go ahead and take the chest and you place the glyph onto it. It takes a while to cast that spell, about an hour, but you complete it without an issue.
Laura: Make it look like there's treasure on it. I take some of the gold that we have and--
Matt: Place it onto it?
Laura: A thin layer, where it looks like a lot of gold but it's really just a thin layer of gold over top of rocks.
Ashley: If it's a chest, can we put some coins sticking out of it? So it looks like it's full?
Matt: You can do that. It does cost you about 200 gold worth of components to do this glyph, so mark off that from your personal gold supply.
Laura: Grog.
Travis: Yeah?
Laura: Question. We sort of thought maybe we could use Kevdak as a tribute, like we sacrificed him to the great shitty Umbrasyl. Is that his name?
Matt: Umbrasyl, yes.
Laura: But it doesn't quite have the same effect without his head. Do you still have that head? In fact, I think I might have the head. Did I put it in my bag of cold?
Matt: You did, I believe. You gave it to her to put in there?
Laura: Would that be all right with you, Grog?
Travis: No.
Laura: Don't you want to kill this dragon, Grog?
Travis: I want that head.
Laura: I don't have the head. I only have the gross bear tattoo off Kevdak.
Travis: That's right, I put the flayed skin. I don't have the head.
Laura: Grog, I can tell when you're lying.
Travis: I don't have the head.
Laura: You're lying. Grog, can we maybe-- you'll be able to get it back, because we're going to kill this dragon and then you can just go and pick up the head and keep it again in your Bag of Holding.
Travis: What's the head for?
Laura: So we can make it seem like we sacrificed Kevdak to the dragon.
Travis: What if you sacrifice me?
Laura: Well, what?
Travis: Yeah, use me as bait!
Sam: We'd have to chop off your head.
Marisha: No, we could just tie him to a chair or something.
Travis: Or I could just put my hands behind my back.
Marisha: Make it look-- wrap some rope to make it look like it's loosely tied.
Sam: What if he bites and kills you?
Travis: Well, I don't know, but it's better live bait than dead, right? At least when you fish.
Sam: Nope.
Travis: Pretty sure that's true.
Sam: Nope.
Laura: Do you want to be bait, Grog?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Does that sound fun to you, or--
Laura: There's exploding things around here. Are you sure you want to be in this area?
Travis: Yeah.
Ashley: No, you don't.
Travis: (laughs) No, I don't. I will give you the head of Kevdak.
Marisha: Oh my gosh, it took a look from Pike!
Sam: Wow, that's a powerful look.
Travis: I want it back.
Ashley: You'll get it back.
Travis: You better promise.
Laura: I promise.
Travis: All right. You can have it.
Ashley: With a bow on it. You'll get it back.
Travis: I don't want a bow on it! He didn't ever wear a bow!
Ashley: No, I'm just saying you'll get it back.
Travis: I take the skull and roll it to her feet. It's still got flesh on it, right?
Matt: Yeah, it's a little soft, but it works. So you have the head of Kevdak at your disposal. Trap is set. Percy, who's pulling the pins, what's the trigger mechanism?
Taliesin: The trigger mechanism is any weight shift. It's the same as a mousetrap. It's like you put pressure on it, you take pressure off of it, doesn't matter. As long as there's immediate weight shift in the platform, where the booty is, it just goes snap.
Matt: Okay. So very carefully and very precariously, you all have set this trap as the final element, aside from the camouflage. Is there anything else you would like to add with this very sensitive large situation being finished?
Sam: Where are we hiding?
Laura: We're going to hide in the trenches, yes?
Marisha: It depends on where you want to hide, I guess. (caws)
Taliesin: As long as I'm within range for my guns, I'm going to hide way off in the treeline.
Marisha: Yeah, there were two trees that were 80 feet? Or 60?
Matt: Which, Ryan, can I get the box of tree materials? Thank you.
Sam: You know, that box of trees that you have.
Ashley: Are we near any structures or any houses?
Matt: No, this is outside of town. It's an open field other than a handful of trees. Just to give you guys perspective right here, this is the setup right now. This is the central area where most things have been dropped. There are pieces here. If you want to put it into perspective here, the glyph lies over in this area. Most of the treasure's been placed in that area. The trap we'll say is set about in that area, with the central piece being the triggering mechanism.
Laura: And the trench is all around that?
Matt: The trenches are down in this area. Oh, now you say the trenches, are you saying they're covered or not?
Laura: They are covered.
Matt: So they're tunnels. They're not trenches. Where is the opening for the tunnel? Where would you like it to be?
Marisha: Far away.
Laura: There, on the other side?
Matt: This side over here?
Travis: Make it 50 feet at the most.
Marisha: I want it to be more than that, I'd like it to be 100 feet away.
Travis: You want them to get there in one turn, right?
Laura: You want to be able to get there right away on surprise attack, spring right out of the ground as soon as that trap triggers.
Marisha: No.
Taliesin: In theory, if the trap is sprung it'll make enough ruckus that anyone in those trenches should hear it.
Matt: Right, but it's more about the proximity of the exit to the trenches.
Marisha: Yeah, what I'm thinking is I've got a circle that I've carved around it. And then there's like a tunnel that shoots off this way and there's an entrance that they can walk in and get into their places.
Matt: You want them to just burst out, then?
Marisha: I've made it really thin like I did before, carved it nice and thin--
Matt: Okay. So the entrance is back here, then.
Marisha: I don't know what that means.
Travis: I thought we were all filing out of one hole.
Matt: That's what I was getting at beforehand. The intent is for them to push up and out?
Marisha: Unless you guys think it would be better?
Laura: No, I feel like they've gotta burst out, yeah.
Travis: I was confused.
Marisha: It's going to be cool, like night of the living dead-style! Orcs coming out of the ground! In my mind, it's really awesome.
Sam: In your mind, so many things--
Marisha: So many things.
Matt: There we go. All right. We have entrenched areas in this vicinity with you around it. What's the last things you need to prepare before the evening is done?
Laura: We need to have a feast.
Sam: Heroes' Feast.
Liam: I have a couple of questions. One, so I asked this outside but I just want to make sure. It says in the rogue section that longsword is something that I'm proficient in, but there's a rule somewhere that I can't find that says I can't use that for sneak attack? On page 95, it says I'm proficient in longswords.
Matt: Correct.
Liam: But somewhere else that I'm unaware of-- no surprise, motherfucker?
Matt: The attack must use a finesse or ranged weapon.
Liam: So it's not a finesse weapon.
Matt: A longsword, I believe, is strength.
Taliesin: No, wait! This longsword was being used as a finesse weapon.
Marisha: It has been used?
Taliesin: We had this discussion at one point. We decided that this longsword was a finesse weapon. Or it could be used as a finesse weapon.
Sam: Aloha.
Taliesin: Aloha!
Liam: In Hawaii, the longsword is a finesse weapon.
Taliesin: There's a beautiful view out this window.
Liam: Just want to know in advance.
Matt: I would say-- stretching it thin. We had agreed it was a finesse weapon for use, meaning as a dex-based modifier for you to use in combat specifically. When did this discussion happen, I'm trying to recall?
Taliesin: This happened when we were doing sword tricks. We were discussing whether or not I could actually use a sword. And what that would be like. Because we were having the conversation about whether you should take strength with the sword. I've obviously been using it as a dex-based sword, but-- I don't remember if that was specifically for me, or--
Sam: This is a tough decision. But you know, it's not a tough decision to subscribe to Loot Crate.
Matt: I would say because it is part of the intent of the weapon that the longsword, while it may be circumstantially used as a dex-based weapon for that purpose, it is out of your realm of expertise when it comes to using the sneak attack ability. It would not be able to sneak attack.
Liam: Lovely. I'm going to take off my Boots of Haste and my cloak. See if anyone else wants it, and I'm going to start attuning-- Can you use this?
Laura: What is it?
Liam: Circlet. Would you be able to control Fassbender?
Laura: Instead of shooting arrows?
Liam: No, Keyleth said you just say "zap," and he just does it until you tell him to stop.
Marisha: Yeah, it takes your concentration, so it takes--
Matt: Well, it takes an action to--
Marisha: I'm trying to speak in character, all right?
Taliesin: What do your Boots of Haste do and what does your cloak do, out of curiosity?
Liam: I want to see how much I'm giving up here. Haste will let you double your speed, you'll be able to do one more thing when you're doing things. Scanlan showed me some sort of potion.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm assuming that was a Potion of Haste.
Sam: I gave the Potion of Haste to Grog. We both found these two potions. Grog has the Potion of Haste if anyone else desperately needs it, and I certainly don't need to be any smaller, so I've given the potion of reduction? Reducement?
Matt: Diminution.
Sam: Diminution? To good old Vax here.
Liam: It's funny, because part of my idea was to go in with you. But I know that you have to do it to folk of your own size, but if I were little Vax, I could go with you.
Laura: Why can't you keep your boots on for that?
Marisha: Honestly, spellcasters, it's not as beneficial for us to have Haste.
Liam: That's true, but I'm wondering if anyone wants Fassbender. If I'm going in, I'm not going to be able to concentrate on that.
Marisha: Well, depends on when you're going in.
Sam: You don't know. Give it to Vex.
Marisha: If you focus on Fassbender and tell him to just attack or to cast Slow, he will do that until that dragon is dead. He will just continue without you having to focus on him.
Liam: I know. I just don't want to miss a shot to go into the belly of the beast with my little buddy here.
Marisha: That's so trite.
Sam: We were born to do this!
Laura: Does it have to be attuned?
Matt: Yes. So if you already have three objects attuned, you'd have to take one off.
Laura: No, I can't wear the circlet, dude.
Liam: All right, I'll wear it.
Taliesin: I could, definitely. If you could take the Haste Potion then I might take the boots, because speed would not be a terrible thing for me to have because then I get to shoot more.
Liam: I'm going to take this sword and I'm going to leave the Deathwalker's Ward on, that can't come off anymore, and the circlet, so the boots are up for borrowing and the Displacer Cloak is up for borrowing. Displacer Cloak makes you very hard to hit.
Laura: That's good.
Liam: And the haste will Haste you.
Taliesin: What does the cloak do, again?
Matt: Disadvantage on physical attacks against you. Until you get hit, and then once you get hit, it fails to work for a turn.
Travis: I might take that.
Marisha: The cloak?
Travis: Yeah. Oh my god, I'm going to take the belt off.
Sam: You're going to lose your beard!
Travis: You don't know that! This shit's in there tight. I take the Belt of Dwarvenkind, and I put it in the Bag of Holding. I put the Displacer Cloak on.
Matt: You will be losing 26 hit points to your maximum hit points.
Travis: What? Wait! Really?
Matt: Your constitution-- or no, it's plus two, so you'd be losing 13 hit points on your max hit points.
Travis: Never mind, no. Nope.
Matt: Because your constitution will go down without it.
Laura: I can take off my Bracers of Archery, too, and put something on--
Marisha: What do those do?
Laura: They just give me a plus two to damage rolls.
Liam: You're wearing a cloak, so if you wear the boots, you can click them and you've got more movement.
Laura: All right. Give me the boots. I'm putting the boots on.
Matt: Boots of Haste?
Marisha: Then I'll take the cloak, I guess. I'm going to take off my spell slot ring. And I put my goodie but my oldie circlet on.
Sam: Let's have a feast! Let's have a feast!
Matt: You guys prepare for the evening. You make your way back to town. Where are you having your feast?
Sam: Isn't there a central place that we killed Kevdak at?
Marisha: The mayor's? The big mansion.
Sam: Whatever that place is called.
Marisha: The Margrave's house.
Matt: All right. So you find your way to the Margrave's town square there, you can see a number of the remaining Herd of Storms are sitting around small fires in the center of the cobblestone. They're all war-painted up, you can see there's smears of various dark charcoal and/or crimson liquid smeared across them in patterns. There is a brimming tension of coming battle. You may do your Heroes' Feast if you wish. You can feast up to 12 creatures as part of it.
Marisha: I can also do a feast if I cast it at seventh level. But, fuck it, I'm going to sleep, so it doesn't matter.
Sam: You're going to do two feasts?
Marisha: Pike and I are both going to cast Heroes' Feast, so that way we can feast 24 people total.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: So tell Kevdak. Sorry, fuck! Tell Zanror his finest warriors, his druids--
Laura: And Abjurist Noja.
Travis: And Old Davin.
Liam: And his wife.
Marisha: So make sure we have Zanror, his wife, his druids that he mentioned; there were like two to three druids?
Ashley: Are there any magic-users in the room?
Travis: Magic-users or clerics.
Marisha: Magic-users or clerics.
Travis: Abjurist and Old Davin included.
Matt: So. That being the case. You guys have your meals in the center of town, summoned forth a grand Heroes' Feast, two side by side. The chosen soldiers step up and you all begin to feast upon your meal. The taste is great but you're all distracted as the energies of the divine enchantment of these food items fill your body and steel you against the coming fear, there is still the concentration in your eye as you all look off listlessly in the distance as you finish your food. It's now just pushing past midnight.
Laura: We need to sleep.
Matt: Everyone seems to go and find themselves to rest, a tense sleep before them. Anything else you wish to do before you go to bed?
Marisha: Rise at sunrise? Rise at dawn?
Travis: Wait, before we do that, didn't you do something that gave us an extra amount of hit points before Kevdak?
Ashley: I have Shield of Faith that I can put on somebody.
Laura: Will that last for 24 hours?
Ashley: It's up to ten minutes. I can do it tomorrow.
Matt: What you're thinking of is Aid, and that lasts for eight hours. That's the one that gives the additional hit points he just mentioned.
Sam: Does the Heroes' Feast give us additional hit points?
Marisha: 2d10, and you're immune to poison, fear--
Matt: As temporary hit points, should mention that too. It's a separate pool. So 2d10 additional hit points. You want to roll, Keyleth?
Marisha: Oh jeez. Don't let me fuck this up. Oh, that's not bad. 14.
Travis: 14? That's not bad.
Marisha: 14 from me.
Ashley: 12.
Matt: Okay, we'll say the 14 goes to your group, the 12 goes to the rest of them for the purposes of this. So that's a separate pool, the 14 hit points come off first before anything else.
Travis: If it's midnight, I would take Aid, just in case he comes in the morning, and if he doesn't, no harm done, you rest up anyway, right?
Ashley: Say it one more time.
Travis: I wouldn't mind taking Aid in case he comes in the morning. If eight hours pass I lose it anyway, but you rest up again.
Ashley: Do you want to have it for the night?
Travis: Yeah, just in case he comes in the morning.
Ashley: Sure.
Marisha: Well, when do we want to be at the trap? Dawn?
Sam: At dawn!
Liam: Just before.
Travis: Yeah, before first light.
Laura: He comes normally around noon, he said.
Marisha: So we need to be in our places by 5AM.
Ashley: So each target's hit point maximum and current hit points increase by five for the duration.
Matt: For each level of the spell, so if you cast it at higher levels, it's more.
Travis: How high do you want to cast it?
Ashley: Cast it at-- fifth is the highest that I have now.
Travis: Rock out. Go for it.
Ashley: Yeah, let's do it.
Travis: Five times five?
Ashley: That's, yeah.
Sam: You'll lose it when we wake up.
Ashley: Yeah, do you want it for tonight?
Travis: It'll hold for eight hours, right, or, but I lose it--
Matt: Eight hours, yes, but a long rest is eight hours, so.
Ashley: Yeah, it'll go away. Let's wait.
Marisha: What time of year is it?
Matt: It's winter cresting into spring--
Marisha: Okay, so we have long nights right now.
Laura: We need to go the fuck to sleep.
Marisha: So let's sleep for a good six hours?
Matt: Six to eight hours.
Laura: Set our alarm clocks.
Matt: You run on a pretty consistent schedule, being a ranger.
Liam: I wait until everyone falls still, and then I scrabble over to you. Are you awake? Yeah, you're awake.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm staring at you.
Liam: I don't know if it's the food you made or the fact that we're going to die tomorrow, but I want to kiss you. And I kiss her. For a while. Good night.
Laura: Did you use your tongues?
Travis: You're asleep.
Marisha: How does she see everything?
Liam: She's a witch.
Marisha: She's a witch?
Liam: She's a witch! Did you see the broom?
Matt: The evening's rest comes to fruition. You guys wake up as the very distant, dull blues of first morning light begins to crawl across the distant mountain ranges. Dead silent is the morning as the rest of the Herd begins to rouse and armor up. You hear the gentle clank of metal against metal as armor and weapons are gathered. Food is being prepared, cooked, and eaten without a word being spoken between them.
Sam: I just want to make sure that we're going around, passing out all the chains, attaching little hooks and jabby things and grappling hooks.
Laura: They know the plan. As soon as he lands on the ground, everybody springs up and--
Matt: Everyone springs up and hooks him.
Sam: If the trigger for that, they're going to be underground--
Laura: The trap should go (snapping).
Sam: If they hear a big clank, that's go.
Laura: Get up and out. Yeah, regardless.
Sam: Will they know that that's a big clank?
Laura: I'm sure it'll be pretty loud. There might also be an explosion.
Matt: All right. With that, Zanror, after having this discussion at the Margrave's makeshift war room in the front foyer, agrees. "Not to worry. I'll make sure the men have known. We'll sharpen the hooks sharp enough to dig into dragonhide, hopefully. We'll hold taut, and the moment that creature breaks free, weapons are to fall on it. Very well." He puts on the rest of his armor. Everyone's feasted for the morning. We've lost Taliesin.
Sam: Don't worry. His work is done. He made his trap good.
Matt: It's like he's on the internet in Hawaii or somewhere.
Sam: Let's do this.
Ashley: Right when I wake up, I am going to try Divine Intervention.
Matt: Right now?
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. Hold on just a second.
Travis: Yeah man, it's as good a time as any.
Sam: Does it last for a while?
Ashley: I don't know.
Laura: You used it before.
Ashley: No, it's never worked.
Laura: Yeah, the guy showed up.
Ashley: That's something else.
Laura: Oh really?
Ashley: That wasn't intervention.
Laura: I thought that was Divine Intervention that made the guy show up.
Ashley: It's never worked.
Matt: So Divine Intervention, there are elements of it that could be preparatory. By the nature of it, it's more of a sudden prayer of desperation. It's one of those things where the effects can range. It can be something that's immediate; it can be something that's more long. Understanding that, acknowledge when would be the good time to use it, whether it be now or later. Depends on what you're requesting, what you're praying for.
Ashley: To come help us kill a dragon. So that.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll a percentile dice, then.
Ashley: What do I have--
Matt: Roll 2d10. You may have a die that has multiple numbers on it.
Ashley: I do. Is this the percentile?
Matt: Yes. Roll that first. What'd you roll?
Ashley: What do I need to roll?
Matt: I believe you need to roll under your level. What did you roll?
Ashley: I rolled an 80.
Matt: Yeah.
Ashley: It never works!
Matt: So, as you call to Sarenrae, the boundaries and barriers that keep the gods from directly interfering with this realm are particularly strong this morning. While you feel her glow upon you, her warmth and protection guiding you to victory, there is not more within her strength or sphere of influence she can grant you at this time.
Ashley: Dammit. I don't feel her warmth, though.
Matt: What else would you like to do?
Ashley: Just go eat.
Matt: All right, so the sun has come up, the hour hits to eight, nine in the morning, you're looking at about three hours until the dragon's--
Marisha: Wait, what time is it?
Sam: It's nine.
Marisha: Son of a bitch, we overslept.
Sam: No, we've been up since dawn.
Marisha: I thought we were trying to get in places before dawn.
Sam: Well, we're moving now. It'll be fine.
Marisha: I hate it when I oversleep.
Matt: All right. The rest of you and the rest of the Herd make your way north. The few people that have stayed behind in the town, the few stalwart, stand outside as you all march by, and they all acknowledge, bow their heads, some get down on their knees and pray for you as you pass. As you quietly make your way outside of Westruun into the plains between the dotted treed landscape towards the drop point. The Herd makes its way under the tunnel beneath the ground.
Laura: I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.
Matt: All right. So they are now beneath the area. They are situated. There is the entrance tunnel off to the side that is currently visible and open from that portion. Do you wish to close or hide that tunnel?
Marisha: Sure.
Travis: I'm going in that tunnel, too.
Liam: Scanlan. Where do you want to go?
Matt: Grog, you have hidden--
Sam: I don't want to go underground.
Liam: Are we going in a tree?
Sam: We're going to go up in a tree. Let's go 200 feet away.
Ashley: I'm going to run up to Scanlan and I'm going to cast Death Ward on him.
Sam: What's that do?
Travis: If you drop below zero, you come back to one.
Matt: Once.
Sam: I don't need it. I'm okay. I know that you're very worried about me because of our love, but--
Matt: So Scanlan, you have Death Ward on you. You are now up in this tree here.
Sam: I don't need it. It jinxes me.
Ashley: I'm going to cast Protection from Energy, acid, onto Vax.
Matt: Vax actually already has resistance to acid because of his armor.
Ashley: I'm going to cast it onto Vex.
Laura: Thanks.
Matt: Okay. So Vex. Currently you have resistance to acid as long as concentration remains.
Marisha: I also cast Protection from Energy, resistance to acid, on Grog.
Matt: Grog, you also have resistance to acid.
Marisha: I'm going to stay in this cluster of trees with Scanlan.
Matt: Scanlan over here, okay.
Laura: I'm going to be up in a tree.
Matt: You're going to be up in the tree.
Sam: Different tree?
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: I don't think we should all be in the same tree, guys.
Laura: No, I'm going to be in a different tree. Can I use my perception to see how hidden everything is?
Matt: We'll say up in this tree. You want to be up in this one over here instead?
Laura: Yeah, something far.
Matt: There we go. You'll be in this one.
Laura: I think Percy wanted to be in a tree, too, at a distance.
Matt: All right. We'll say Percy is over at this one here, watching his trap hopefully spring.
Liam: Vax is with Scanlan. Stuck like glue.
Matt: Is Trinket in your necklace?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: All right. Where do you want to be? Did you want to cast your Aid spell on anybody before this happens?
Ashley: Oh, yeah. Yes.
Sam: Matt, we're more than 150 feet away, yes?
Laura: Some people.
Matt: Some people.
Laura: Like the trees are 80 feet away from the stuff.
Matt: This here?
Sam: I would like to be more than 150--
Matt: About 70-ish feet away is right here where these trees are.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: You're about 50-ish feet.
Ashley: I'm going to cast Aid on Keyleth.
Matt: At what level?
Ashley: Fourth.
Matt: That's 15 additional hit points to Keyleth.
Marisha: Additional or temporary?
Matt: Not temporary, additional. Keyleth, who else?
Ashley: Scanlan, again.
Matt: Scanlan, and--?
Sam: Why don't you do it on yourself?
Ashley: Okay, I have low hit points. I'll do it on myself. 15?
Matt: Yep, 15.
Sam: Keyleth, can you help me?
Matt: Do you cast it again, or are you just happy with those people? You can cast it multiple times if you have the spell levels for it.
Ashley: I'm going to save my spells.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I'm going to need help. I know a little bit about dragons. I don't know a ton. Can you help my knowledge of animals in any way, shape, or form? For some sort of a check, I don't know. I just want to make sure that I know everything I can know in the moment when checked.
Liam: Can bards inspire themselves?
Matt: No. At higher levels, he can.
Marisha: Theoretically, I could enhance your ability, but it's a concentration spell and I've already protected from acid against Grog.
Sam: Never mind. I'm fine.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: What does your cloak do? That I put on?
Liam: Disadvantage on attacking you.
Marisha: Like, melee?
Liam: Until you get hit, and then it's gone for the round but resets for the next round.
Marisha: Only melee, not spells, yeah?
Liam: That's right.
Matt: So, at this point in time, Kevdak approaches.
Sam: Zanror.
Matt: I did it again. Zanror and two of his goliaths stay there waiting, with the offering placed at its designated spot.
Marisha: Shit. I can't believe we're doing this.
Matt: Any last-minute preparations?
Ashley: I'm going to-- wait, Grog, where are you?
Travis: I'm down in the tunnel.
Ashley: Is that where I am?
Matt: Well, wherever you want to be.
Ashley: I want to be in the trenches.
Matt: In the trenches? All right, so you make your way into the trenches, pushing past all the rest of the Herd members.
Laura: I hide the hole.
Matt: All right. We'll say for the purposes of this spread so everyone knows where they're all hidden currently--
Laura: Everyone knows they need to not move at all and be completely--
Marisha: Quiet.
Travis: I'm down over here.
Sam: Pike, you're in the middle of it? Oh, shit.
Ashley: I'm just going to hide. I'm not going to be a hero.
Travis: I'll throw her out of there if something goes wrong.
Liam: She doesn't clank if she doesn't move.
Ashley: They'll see me shining with my shiny armor.
Laura: You're right. We need to be stealthy up in the trees.
Marisha: I come over the earpiece in the calm of battle and I say: if things go terribly wrong, rush to this cluster of trees. I have ways that can get us out. I feel like I should say something inspiring, but I don't have anything, so--
Travis: How about fuck shit up?
Marisha: Fuck shit up, as Grog once said. About two days ago.
Matt: Hiding off in this tree beneath you is Noja, invisibility spell and vanishes behind. Beneath the ground here, off to the side is your good golem friend hidden in the dirt. Quiet sets in, gentle distant wind as the midday sun begins to stroll through. It's quiet and quieter still. You can hear the gentle bristling of high grasses against themselves. The tension causes the muscles in the back of your shoulders and neck to knot up. Watching the sun slowly crawl to its zenith. (wingbeat noises) You look up, those of you who are able, and you see a dark shape, a shadow dart off from the top of Gatshadow. Circles around, past you towards the city. Comes back. Growing larger and larger as it does. As it comes within the vicinity, it drifts up with one large beat of its wings. And (impact sound) lands into the center of this vicinity. As it hits the ground, there is a tink! (creaking sound, impact) As giant claws made of wood, metal, and rotten, angry hooks slam up out of the dirt, sending a giant cluster of dust just filling the vicinity. It woosh-- wraps around, you hear the smashing of metal and wood and low, guttural roaring. Dust has filled the area, and, for a brief moment, you have no visual on what's happened. As soon as that hits, everyone around you in the tunnels bursts through the floor, smashing through as the tunnels begin to collapse inward. Also, I need everybody to go ahead and roll intiative.
Ashley: Did he move the treasure?
Laura: Not yet.
Liam: Come on meteorite die, don't dick me.
Marisha: Green, lucky jade. That's okay.
Liam: Matt Colville, this is on you.
Sam: It's not you, Liam, it's me.
Marisha: Fucking shit.
Sam: Not good. Liam, yours doesn't matter. Mine does.
Marisha: Is yours not good?
Sam: No.
Laura: What did you roll?
Sam: It's okay, we got this. Pike's going to win the fight for us.
Liam: Hey, can I use Luck for initiative?
Matt: What does it say for the ability?
Sam: It doesn't matter, Liam.
Matt: I'll find out here. It counts as an ability check. I don't see why it wouldn't.
Liam: It's up to you. You're the boss. I love you. You're the all-seeing eye.
Sam: The feast gives us advantage on all initiative checks, right?
Matt: Ability check or saving throw-- technically, you get plus two to ability checks, correct? I'd say, sure, you can reroll initiative if you want.
Liam: (laughs) It was the exact same number!
Matt: You use the Luck point, and your initiative is what it is. Starting at this point in time, everybody--
Sam: It's a fight.
Matt: We have 25 to 20.
Laura: 22.
Travis: 20.
Matt: All right, 22. Vex. The Herd actually rolled really well.
Sam: Good, we need that.
Matt: Grog. All right, 20 to 15.
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: 19 for Percy. Is that it? So we have-- Noja. 15 to ten?
Liam: Big ten, which if you think about it rounded is like 100.
Marisha: Also big ten, which if you round it twice is like a thousand.
Ashley: 13.
Matt: All right. Ten to five.
Sam: Big five.
Matt: Big five, right there. Scanlan holding up the rear, there we go.
Liam: Gosh, plan B indeed.
Matt: At the top of this surprise round, I need Vex to go first.
Laura: Am I first?
Marisha: You've got, no, he has Fassbender.
Laura: He has Fassbender. I guess I'm just going to shoot it. I mean, what else can I do right now?
Liam: You do you!
Laura: All right. My Boots of Haste have been clicked.
Matt: All right, so you are now hasted. You may now have an additional attack action per turn.
Laura: Badass. I'm going to Hunter's Mark him.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Wait. Yeah, because I'm still hidden in the tree, right?
Matt: Correct, currently. As far as you know. Hunter's Mark on Umbrasyl.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to Hunter's Mark him. I'm going to shoot him with my Longbow of the Sky Sentinel. So I'm going to roll.
Matt: Go for it. Now, he is surprised, so you actually have--
Laura: Advantage.
Matt: Well, you have advantage because he doesn't see you, so yeah.
Laura: Okay, so the first one is 12 plus 15 is 23.
Matt: 23?
Laura: 27.
Matt: 27 hits.
Laura: 25.
Matt: 25 hits.
Laura: And 23.
Matt: 23 hits.
Laura: So. Okay, those are regular attack plus lightning arrow attack, right? I all of a sudden forget how it works. Plus 1d6 per arrow. 1d6 for the Hunter's Mark. And then 1d6 on the first one for the sneak attack. Okay. Plus the regular.
Matt: Herd's up next, and then Grog.
Laura: 31 on the first arrow.
Matt: 31 damage?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Nice!
Liam: Seven plus five is 12.
Laura: 12. Plus nine.
Matt: 21. You're not getting additional sneak attack for the other two hits, by the way.
Laura: Right, I know. I lost my-- 18, I think. 18 was the last one.
Matt: All right. So that was your Sky Sentinel attack.
Laura: That was my first attack.
Matt: Correct.
Laura: For my second attack, I'm going to shoot him with one of my dragon arrows. Should I waste it on him?
Sam: Of course, he's a dragon! This is it!
Laura: I have two of them. I've been saving one, but I'm going to use one on him.
Matt: All right.
Laura: This is still advantage because it's still surprise round, right?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: Okay. 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Laura: Okay. That's still my Hunter's Mark, and then-- I have a Jelly Belly in my thing-- And then that's 10d6 additional damage for the dragon arrow.
Matt: Okay, surprise round doesn't give you advantage, but you were hidden from the top of the round, so you have advantage.
Laura: Oh, okay. So an additional 10d6 damage for the dragon arrow.
Matt: Go ahead and roll damage on that.
Laura: No. 6d10. Sorry, my mistake.
Matt: There you go.
Sam: She's going to one-shot the dragon.
Laura: 6d10. (counting)
Sam: Matt, can I turn around and see Keyleth and Vax making out in the tree behind me?
Matt: They are not.
Liam: We're not making out! There's a slow trickle of wizz going down my leg right now, man.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm hyperventilating.
Laura: Sorry. 24 plus ten is 34 plus Hunter's Mark is another four. 38 on that attack.
Matt: 38 points of damage on the dragon-slaying arrow.
Laura: And then my third attack, I'm going to use the Blazing Bowstring.
Matt: Just so you guys are aware, this is over 100 points of damage in one round.
Liam: Enjoy those boots.
Laura: Do I still get advantage, because I'm still hidden?
Matt: No. At this point in time, I'll say you've definitely made yourself known.
Laura: 20?
Matt: Technically you shouldn't have had advantage on the other ones, but--
Laura: 20?
Matt: Pssh, arrow splinters across the hide, no effect.
Laura: Okay. Wow.
Matt: All right. Staying there?
Laura: I'm going to sink down into the leaves, yes, and try to hide better.
Matt: You have no actions to hide, but you're in a tree.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: All right. Finishing your turn, the Herd now is going to go. Shot from here, he's going to stay back. All move in, he's going to stay back here and aim. They can't even get in; there's so many of them.
Laura: I'm trying to duck behind some branches so he doesn't have direct line of sights on me, okay?
Matt: That's fine.
Sam: Man, what if this was all a trick and they actually work for him? Oh god, we're all going to die. It was all a trick! They work for him. They're going to kill us all!
Travis: If I were near you, I would slap you. Get a hold of yourself, man!
Matt: Throwing chains up, some of them leap up and jab the actual hook into the side and try to pull back. Having a hard time piercing hide. It's real strong.
Laura: Some of them can try to like swing the grapplings around the ankles--
Sam: Shh, don't distract him, he's adding.
Matt: I got this, don't worry.
Liam: Don't piss him off.
Matt: All right. We'll say about eight of them manage to actually get it into the hide. The rest either bounce off or can't find purchase into its hide and it just scrapes down, but the rest of them are trying to hold it down. "We got him! We got him!" And they're holding back. The archers all take aim. Misses, misses, misses, misses, hits.
Liam: Question. Did we give the chain attached to Fassbender to one of the goliaths?
Sam: No, it's buried in the stone.
Liam: To the stone, but one has to go on the dragon.
Sam: If that's what we planned, sure.
Liam: I don't know.
Matt: You didn't tell Fassbender to use it.
Liam: Oh, no. Okay. Cool.
Matt: That's two hits for all the arrows. All the rest of them are just smashing against the hide of Umbrasyl. No effect. That is seven points of damage and eight points of damage. They actually make it through. That's their round. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I go into a rage, and I would like to run up behind him with my Bloodaxe and make two reckless attacks against him.
Liam: He's got it. He's got a whole strategy. He's street-smart, this guy.
Sam: Intelligence of three.
Travis: 26.
Matt: 26 hits.
Travis: That's really good. 28.
Matt: 28 hits.
Travis: So, that's 23 with three points of necrotic damage.
Matt: 23, three points of necrotic damage added in or on top of that?
Travis: Oh, that's part of it, yeah.
Matt: 23. All right.
Travis: And then the second one-- 22 with one point of necrotic damage.
Matt: Gotcha. Whack! Whack! It's a tough hide to cut into, but you're making small hacks into it. You can start seeing that damage is possible, though it's a lot to cut through. This is a very hefty, very old beast. All right.
Travis: With my bonus action, could I drink the potion of fast nuts? Potion of speed.
Matt: Well, isn't it a bonus action to go into a rage?
Travis: I believe you're right. Never mind.
Matt: Pretty sure it is. Let me double-check real fast.
Travis: I think you're right.
Matt: It's fine, yeah. Bonus action. So that's your turn? Percy, you're up. You're way behind the dragon, hiding by the treeside.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to cast Hex on the dragon.
Matt: All right, Hex on the dragon.
Taliesin: With a disadvantage to all strength checks.
Matt: Strength ability checks, okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to hold my turn until the dragon's turn.
Matt: Okay. You're just going to hold until it does something?
Taliesin: I'm going to hold until it does something, and if it does nothing, I'm taking my attacks, and if it gets away I'm taking my attacks. I'm just taking my attacks after him.
Matt: Okay. It is now Noja's turn. Noja is going to step out from here and is going to attempt to Lightning Bolt. From the side, he just reaches out, hand forward. Arcs upward in its direction. It fails its saving throw because it is held in there. It is currently considered grappled. It doesn't have disadvantage or anything, but I'll say from this standpoint it can't really move around a lot. It's going to take the damage.
Sam: (laughs) What was that face?
Matt: Terrible roll. 21 points of lightning damage.
Sam: That's 8d6.
Matt: At the end of his turn, it's going to use one of its legendary actions to make a tail attack against you. We'll say that'll be 27 to hit.
Travis: That'll hit.
Sam: Can I use Cutting Words on the attack or to reduce the attack?
Matt: If you want to.
Sam: I would like to.
Matt: Okay, so 27 to hit. You take, from the slam of its tail behind you--
Sam: No, I mean to, I'm sorry, I can't reduce the--
Matt: Oh, I thought, to reduce the attack not the damage.
Sam: The attack.
Matt: Okay. Go for it. Roll your d10.
Sam: Okay. (slide-whistle) A d10 is this one. Ten.
Matt: Ten. 17. What's your AC?
Travis: It's a 20.
Matt: 20. With that, the tail-- whack!-- slams into the ground. You manage to push out of the way just in time as Scanlan shouts up to the dragon.
Sam: Oi! You're so ugly you entered an ugly contest and they said no professionals! (laughter)
Matt: Just enough of a distraction in the settling dirt for the dragon to turn its head over and its tail swings just a little wide of you, Grog, as you sidestep, no effect. We'll say for this, it's less of a surprise round. I use surprise round liberally. Surprise was it grappling and everyone getting out of it and preparing for the actual assault.
Liam: It's more of a surprising round.
Matt: Correct. Umbrasyl does get a turn. Umbrasyl, very frustrated and angry at the circumstance, is going to attempt to break free. With disadvantage on the athletics check to try and break out of the grapple because of the Hex. All right. That is--
Sam: Is that a save?
Matt: No, it's not a save. It's an ability check. However, the strength-- (struggling sounds) cannot seem to break free from the grapple of the communal might of all the goliaths there. So that is unhappy.
Sam: Meaning Matt is unhappy.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: And three more dragons.
Marisha: Why the book?
Laura: Oh no, what are we looking up?
Travis: What's in the book?
Matt: Nothing's in the book, guys.
Laura: We're literally going to finish off this bag of Jelly Bellies.
Liam: If an ancient black dragon takes one hit point of damage, it cowers and dies.
Ashley: I'm looking for the popcorn ones.
Marisha: Thanks to whomever sent these Jelly Bellies, by the way.
Matt: That'll end Umbrasyl's turn. That brings us to Pike, you're up.
Taliesin: Oh no, that's my turn now.
Matt: Percy's up, then.
Taliesin: I'm going to take just a standard shot with Bad News.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: Ooh. 28 to hit.
Matt: 28 hits.
Taliesin: 18 points of damage, with four necrotic. 18 points of damage.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: And I'll take another shot with Bad News.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: 20 to hit.
Matt: 20 does not hit.
Taliesin: All right.
Matt: Second shot just goes wide, firing off into the distance over the city of Westruun.
Taliesin: All right. Turn's up.
Matt: All right. Pike, you're up.
Ashley: Okay. I'm going to Guiding Bolt.
Sam: Be beautiful! Be good!
Laura: At what level?
Ashley: I'm going to-- at third. Let me see this.
Liam: Is this an attack range thing, or does it automatically--?
Matt: Spell attack roll, so you roll--
Ashley: And then I add that? That would be a 29.
Matt: 29. Damn, what did you roll?
Ashley: I rolled a 19.
Matt: That's nice. That'll hit.
Ashley: Okay, so now I do--
Laura: 4d6 plus two more d6.
Ashley: 26.
Matt: 26 points of damage.
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: All right. And the next attack against it has advantage. So Pike, you're staying. You popped out of the trench and you're up on the ground. You hit it with the Guiding Bolt. You can see the blast of divine energy streaks up and slams into Umbrasyl's side. The darkened black scales now have this shining beacon across the torso. Anything else you want to do with your turn, or is that it? You want to move?
Ashley: Yeah. I'm going to stay.
Matt: All right.
Ashley: But I'm also going to put a Spiritual Weapon, just a sword again. Can't think of anything right now because I'm nervous.
Matt: We'll say right here in this area around Umbrasyl. The magical light sword of Sarenrae once again forges itself underneath Umbrasyl, swings up towards-- Let's see, you did Guiding Bolt at what level?
Ashley: Three.
Matt: Third level. And Spiritual Weapon is second level. So that works. Lasts for a minute. Make a spell attack. Roll again.
Ashley: 19.
Matt: 19 total? The blade swings up and as it strikes against the dragon's armor, sparks of divine energy versus the scales streak, but no damage is done. The blade is unable to strike through the hide. Does that end your turn, Pike? Are you staying where you are?
Sam: Did you add your spell attack bonus?
Laura: Yeah, she did.
Matt: All right. You going to move, stay where you are?
Ashley: I'll stay where I am.
Matt: Ending Pike's turn, Vax, you're up.
Liam: I'm going to hold my turn until Scanlan, no. Yeah, I'm going to-- Fassbender, slow the fucking dragon down now!
Matt: Okay, at which point suddenly dust streaks upward as Fassbender steps up out of the hiding place there. Fassbender focuses his arms out as the slow magic effect seems to take on towards it. What's the DC on it?
Liam: Oh, dear god. That's a good question.
Sam: Who has the Fassbender stats?
Liam: I've got it. Slow-- 17.
Matt: 17. And that's a wisdom?
Liam: It is wisdom. And Fassbender, just slow until the end of tomorrow, just keep going.
Matt: It rolled a ten plus nine, succeeds in the save.
Sam: Wisdom disadvantage save. I have Cutting Words-ed him.
Matt: That's true. Rolled even higher.
Liam: Question  he'll just keep doing that until I tell him to stop, right?
Matt: Yeah, but it has to recharge. If it doesn't, he might just start hitting it.
Marisha: He's got to roll to see if it recharges. It'll recharge on a five or a six.
Liam: Okay. With my bonus action, I drink that potion and I'm a tiny Vax.
Matt: Okay! With that, you have shrunk down to a small-sized creature.
Liam: (high-pitched) Do it, Scanlan, do it!
Sam: I think this is the first time I've ever been taller than you.
Liam: (high-pitched) Hey, buddy! I love ya. Let's go in that dragon's gut.
Sam: I don't particularly like small people.
Liam: (high-pitched) Do you think Keyleth will think less of me?
Sam: Yes, I do.
Matt: Is that the end of your turn?
Liam: Yeah, action, bonus action. Done
Matt: So Vax is actually like a few inches shorter than you. You're now towering over him.
Sam: I tousle his hair.
Liam: I'm like eight inches tall, if that's true! He's so small!
Matt: (laughs) You're like two feet. He's about two and a half.
Liam: (high-pitched) These are still sharp.
Sam: You're so cute!
Liam: (high-pitched) Heeheehee.
Sam: My turn?
Matt: So, it's your turn, Scanlan. Oh no, Pike, Vax, Keyleth, then it's you. Keyleth, what are you doing?
Marisha: Oh dear god. Okay. I'm going to transmute the earth underneath him. Right? That's what I'm doing? That's part of the plan? So if I can do right underneath Umbrasyl, that would be fabulous.
Matt: Transmute Rock--
Marisha: It's a 120-foot range.
Matt: Yes, and a 40-foot cube in the range. So what are you doing?
Marisha: I want to do the area just directly under Umbrasyl, if I can, so that I'm not sinking the Herd around him.
Matt: Turning what into what?
Marisha: I want to turn the ground directly underneath Umbrasyl into mud.
Matt: Okay. The only piece of rock is the piece of rock that you put beneath where the chains were there. The area right beneath Umbrasyl is dirt, it's earth.
Marisha: Okay, I thought it had spread, because it's 40-foot, so I thought it was under Umbrasyl, but I could do something else--
Matt: A 40-foot cube, part of it would be under Umbrasyl, possibly, but for the placement of where you put that, it's going to be hard for you to do it without it pulling everybody else into it.
Marisha: Okay. Plan B.
Matt: You can do it still, but it'll probably take some of the Herd with it.
Marisha: Should I go with pillars? Yeah. I'll go with--
Sam: No.
Marisha: No?
Liam: Just do what you're going to do. Ignore the gnome. Go.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to cast Bones of the Earth, which I think I can pop up six pillars around Umbrasyl.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: So, Grog, you want a boost? You want to stand on a rock?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Pike, you want a boost? Do you want a boost?
Ashley: Yes.
Marisha: Okay. Here's what I'm going to do. I want a pillar here, Grog. When you're ready.
Matt: All right, so you're putting Grog on a pillar.
Marisha: Grog on a big stone pillar, bam! And then, where's the button? Pike on a pillar over here, bam. Let's go ahead, I'm trying to trap him in here. I want to pin him as these go up, so let's do one here. Can I get whoever that is up on a--
Matt: Which one?
Marisha: Right up here.
Matt: All right. If I'd known you were going to use this spell, I would've brought the pillars.
Marisha: Oh. Surprise! We were trying not to tell anyone our plan.
Matt: I know, it's good. Now I know.
Liam: We wanted to keep you off-balance, Matt.
Matt: That's good. All right.
Marisha: Let's do another one over here. Bam. Pinning him in. One, two, what is that, three, four. One on the opposite side, over here. Umbrasyl's a big fatty so I can't get my laser pointer over there.
Matt: Where do you want it? Right there?
Marisha: Over here-ish. On the other side of this one. Can I raise a pillar through his wing?
Matt: Not through his wing, no.
Marisha: So flanking this pillar on the other side over there, if that makes-- flanking this pillar. So wait, move that one that you just placed over a bit.
Matt: This is like a summoning spell.
Marisha: You know, it's fine. You get the idea.
Matt: That one there.
Marisha: Let's do one up here.
Matt: You have one more.
Marisha: Knock him in the chin.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Hopefully that contains him a bit.
Matt: All righty. That finish your turn?
Marisha: Yeah, guess so.
Matt: All right. That brings us to Scanlan.
Sam: Okay. Here we go.
Liam: Here we go.
Sam: I turn to my little buddy and I say  are you ready for a ride, little man?
Liam: (high-pitched) Come on, big guy!
Sam: Before we go, I yell as loud as I can to Pike to inspire her with my bonus action first.
Matt: The range? Pike is quite far away.
Sam: Can't hear me, or it won't work?
Matt: What's the range, I think it's 60 feet, so yeah. She's too far away.
Marisha: I'm behind you.
Sam: Well then, am I within 60 feet of her?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Oh. Then I will sing her some inspiration and I'll sing. (singing) Westruun town a dead-end world, east-end boys and Westruun girls, Westruun girls. (laughter)
Matt: Take your d10.
Marisha: Fuck yeah, d10.
Sam: And then I sort of link arms with good old Vax. Actually, I hug him tight because we've gotta be tight together to do this, and I hold up my hand cone and I cast Dimension Door and I'm going to aim right for the belly of the beast.
Liam: And I say  This is so fuuuu--
Matt: Scanlan. You are not fully familiar with the physiology of a dragon.
Sam: No, I am not.
Laura: I gave him as much information as I could.
Matt: And you did. I would like for you to make an intelligence check.
Sam: Just an intelligence check.
Matt: This is your ability to ascertain based on what you've seen, your knowledge of the dragon, where possibly in its body its stomach may be.
Sam: Okay. Why not?
Laura: Is it advantage because I told him where it would be?
Sam: Nope. 12?
Liam: Can I give him my Luck?
Matt: (laughs) No.
Sam: It's just intelligence, right, there's no other--
Matt: Right, you add your intelligence modifier to it.
Sam: Yeah, it's two.
Matt: You would add two to that because of your bardic ability. Plus two to any skill check.
Sam: Okay, 14, then.
Ashley: Is there anything extra from heroes' feast? No?
Matt: No. So. Both of you grab hands and vanish. The darkness that hits your eyes upon vanishing doesn't go away as darkness still hits you. All of a sudden, you are plunged into a thick, wet, crushing interior. You have finished your Dimension Door spell. You are in darkness. You are being crushed between what feels like two layers of musculature. Both of you.
Sam: Hi, dude.
Matt: You don't know where each other are. You don't see the other person. There's no sight. You can't hear anything.
Sam: Are we touching at all?
Matt: Nope. The trajectory of the spell and the unfortunate circumstance put you guys on two different sides of a membrane, and you don't know where you are.
Sam: It's going great.
Matt: All right. Does that end your turn?
Sam: Yeah, that's all-- I'll use my movement to go--
Matt: You are both considered restrained, so your speed becomes zero, attack rolls against you have advantage, you have disadvantage on dexterity saving throws. Also, you suffer eight points of acid damage, reduced to four.
Sam: Awesome.
Liam: Who's got the other gatestone? I have one.
Ashley: Oh, I have one.
Liam: 60 seconds.
Matt: You also both currently have no air. At the top of this round, Umbrasyl goes (disgruntled noises).
Liam: Suck it, bitch!
Matt: "I will eat all of you!"
Liam: I'm a two-foot-tall rogue, you motherfucker.
Laura: I'm up?
Matt: You're up first, top of the round.
Laura: Oh my god. Okay, I'm going to cast Conjure Animals and I'm going to conjure two giant eagles right in front of his face.
Matt: I'm really hoping we can put more things on the battlefield, guys. I think that would be a cool idea.
Laura: (laughs) Sorry, Matt.
Matt: It's not like I don't have enough to concentrate on up there.
Laura: I'm sorry.
Matt: It's fine. I don't have two giant eagle miniatures, so we'll say, for the time being, this air elemental is a giant eagle.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: I'll say, with no facetiousness, this is all I ever wanted in my life.
Sam: To be trapped in the spleen of a dragon with me?
Matt: We'll say these are up in the air.
Laura: Okay, right in front of--
Matt: Because I've used all the height things for--
Laura: And Conjure Animals is an action, or a--
Matt: It's an action.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to tell them to attack his eyes.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: They get their own--
Matt: Own initiative, which I just rolled. What's their dexterity bonus?
Laura: You sent me a thing-- let's go with that. Hold up. Giant eagle, dexterity is 17, plus three.
Matt: So it would be plus three, that puts them at 11, so they are just above Keyleth and Vax. All right.
Laura: And then for my bonus action, I'm going to-- I can't cast two spells, even if one's a bonus action?
Matt: As long as it's a level two or lower.
Laura: Oh, okay. For my bonus action, I'm going to hide a lot? I'm going to hide.
Matt: You didn't start the round hidden, so you can't do that.
Laura: I wasn't still hidden?
Matt: No, you have to spend a bonus action to attempt to hide at the end of your turn.
Laura: Can I attempt to hide?
Matt: You'd have to be a level two rogue to do that as a bonus action on your turn.
Laura: But on my boots of haste I can use it to dash, disengage, or hide.
Matt: Oh, you're using your bonus action-- so your extra action, not your bonus action.
Laura: Okay, my extra action.
Matt: You can do that, yes. Go ahead and roll a stealth check.
Laura: Natural 20.
Matt: You vanish into the foliage.
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: All right. Great. Finishing your turn, the Herd now goes. They're going to attempt to put the rest of the chains up to increase the DC of the grapple. There we go. So four more chains get latched on so they're holding. Each chain increases the DC of the grapple. All right. So as they're all holding it down, the five in the back that are going to take attacks on it are going to do so. That's a hit, miss, miss, hit, miss, miss, miss, miss, miss, hit. Three hits. So four damage, five damage, and eight damage.
Laura: Wow, these guys hit real hard. How come they were hitting us so hard?
Matt: They're rolling really terrible. They get two attacks each. All right. And with that, the tribal druid is going to cast Blight on the creature. However, it does make its saving throw, so for the purposes of speed on this I'm going to use my dice-rolling app. That's a lot of dice to roll. That comes to 18 points of necrotic damage. That brings us to the end of that round. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Could I go into a frenzied rage?
Matt: You may.
Travis: Excellent. I'm on top of a pillar, and I'm not within striking distance, right?
Matt: You can hit it.
Travis: From up there?
Matt: Yeah, it's pretty tall.
Travis: (laughs) I would like to use all three of my attacks against his backside, reckless.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Natural 20.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: 26.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: These are just regular. They're not great weapon master. 23.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: Sweet. So the first one was the crit.
Matt: The crit. So go ahead and roll damage on that plus two additional d12s.
Travis: Right. That's a d12. 21 and two additional d12s?
Matt: Yep, 21 plus?
Travis: Ten, 31.
Matt: 31.
Travis: Seven, so 38.
Matt: 38 points of damage on the first strike. Next two strikes, roll for it.
Travis: That was awful. 13.
Matt: 13, all right. Last one.
Travis: That was also pretty crap. That's 16.
Matt: 16, okay. At the end of its turn it's going to use a legendary action to attempt to wing attack you. It's going to cost its last--
Travis: Oh, I did not add the necrotic.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: On all three of them. Three, six, eight.
Matt: Total of eight?
Travis: Total of eight.
Matt: All right. Expending two of its actions to use a wing attack, it's going to go ahead and start beating its wings as hard as it can, even with the chains amongst it. Each creature within 50 feet of the dragon must succeed on a DC 23 dexterity saving throw. Make a dex save.
Travis: (singing) I believe I can fly--
Matt: The only one of the party within-- what did you roll?
Travis: A nine.
Matt: Nine. All right. You take 15 points of bludgeoning damage.
Travis: Reduced to...
Matt: Reduced to eight. Go ahead and make one more dexterity saving throw, just for my own sake.
Travis: 16.
Matt: 16. You are thrust off the pillar, pushed, falling, and hitting the ground, prone on the ground, the pillar remains there. You take an additional eight points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to four, from the impact. But you are knocked prone. The rest of the Herd here, we'll say for the sake of that, they do not save. Oh, man. They are all knocked prone, knocking much of the chains free from their hands as they're thrown onto their backs. Then it is still technically grappled, so it cannot fly half its speed, unfortunately. It does seem to have knocked a majority of the chains off its back. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Holding my action until its action.
Matt: Okay. That brings us to Noja. Noja's going to attempt another Lightning Bolt. It's the best thing he has at the moment. Oh, a natural 20 on the saving throw. Nope. Not bad. 15 points of lightning damage to Umbrasyl. Noja's then going to dart back behind the tree. Ending Noja's turn, it is now Umbrasyl's turn. Umbrasyl is going to go ahead and attempt to break free of the final chains that are there.
Taliesin: With disadvantage.
Matt: Correct, with disadvantage. But even so comes out to a 22. (crash) The rest of the chains that were holding Umbrasyl down break free.
Laura: What about the trap? Is he out of the trap then, too?
Matt: Well, the trap that's currently holding it in place is part of the whole setup. The trap is what's keeping it there, starting the grapple, and the chains are just there to increase the DC. So with that, the actual metal structure of the trap that held it in place is shattered. You can see pieces of iron go flying, wood splintering in this cloud of dust that is kicked up from the movement of the wings. Currently right now there are still hooks and chains dangling from Umbrasyl, but some of them have broken and most of them are unmanned at the moment. The dragon is going to (wings flapping) go ahead and--
Taliesin: Can I take my action?
Matt: You can, yes.
Taliesin: I'm taking a shot at him at the joint at his wing and I'm going to attempt to ground him.
Matt: Attempt to ground him? Okay, go for it. Roll for the attack.
Taliesin: Natural fucking 20. (cheering)
Taliesin: Oh no, oh my god, right now.
Marisha: He's taking a photo?
Travis: He's taking a photo.
Taliesin: Photo taken. Ha! Natural 20. It still doesn't necessarily mean he's grounded. It means he has to make a strength saving throw or he's prone.
Matt: Correct. So roll the damage first.
Taliesin: Roll damage. Oh yeah. That's double dice, so that's-- 23 points doubled is 46 plus--
Matt: Plus the modifier. So 46 is--
Taliesin: 46, yeah, plus the modifier now is 52 points of damage total.
Liam: That bullet came from the center of the Pacific Ocean!
Matt: Strength saving throw.
Taliesin: I rolled really well.
Matt: That's amazing. All right, so. Strength saving throw to try and resist the effect. That is a failure. It's going to use one of its legendary actions to automatically succeed, one of its legendary resistances. So succeeds. Rising up from the ground, because of all the guys that are knocked prone--
Taliesin: Wait!
Matt: What was that?
Taliesin: I was going to pop off a couple more shots.
Matt: You held your action, okay. So you fired, loaded, fired last round.
Taliesin: I was going to blow an action surge.
Matt: Oh. It's weird to do-- Out of turn action, it is a little strange to do that.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: He held his action. That's something you do on your turn as a burst. I'll say, probably have to wait on your actual turn to do that full bit.
Taliesin: No, it's okay. Go ahead.
Matt: Umbrasyl does rise up about 40 feet.
Liam: Here we go, Scanlan.
Matt: It's actually going to move back this way.
Ashley: Did he never land on the glyph?
Matt: He landed in the trap immediately and the trap set off, but he never grabbed the stuff.
Ashley: It was if he landed on it.
Matt: You said it was to--
Liam: Pull it off.
Travis: Yeah, we said to lift it off.
Matt: All right. Flying back at that point (flapping wings) just growling, absolute anger. Squeezed in its insides, you guys both feel this heavy contraction within its body as you guys watch this flow of greenish bile spittle begins to fill up and spray out in a line from its mouth.
Liam: Look at all those people.
Laura: Are they all going to die?
Matt: Everything there-- Okay.
Laura: The birds were up in the air, though.
Matt: Right, but the stream sprays down, it's not just a single bolt. It vomits it out and it lands over everything. That's how it works.
Sam: Pike, are you in there?
Travis: No.
Matt: All right, that comes to 15d8 acid damage.
Laura: 15d8?
Sam: I think a lot of those people will be fine.
Matt: So that's 81 points of damage to all those guys. They all just dissolve in horrible agony.
Laura: Oh my god, you guys, we're going to die.
Sam: No, just me and Liam. Both of the eagles just screech in pain as they're entirely ruined.
Laura: Good job, you fucking wastes of space. They didn't even get to fucking go.
Matt: Sorry. That's going to end Umbrasyl the Hope-Devourer's turn.
Marisha: The Hope-Devourer?
Matt: That is the full name.
Sam: So his middle name is The Hope? And his last name is Devourer?
Matt: Devourer. Married into it.
Sam: It's hyphenated?
Matt: Hyphenated, yeah.
Travis: Marriage fucked everything up.
Marisha: Yep, Umbrasyl the Hope and then marriage fucked everything up.
Matt: You guys have both entirely vanished, you both are inside the entity. All right, so. Keyleth, the line just stops right before you. It smacks into the ground five feet from your feet and you watch as the earth and grass beneath you just immediately turns black and seems to almost coalesce into this death-sludge in this long line. It just barely misses you. All right, that's going to end Umbrasyl's turn. Pike, you're up.
Ashley: All right. So. I'm going to Guiding Bolt him again.
Matt: All right. You're now up on a pillar facing this giant flying dragon. Standing above the rest of the battlefield, your shield up and your Frostbrand to the side, you reach up and grab your holy symbol and go ahead and roll for your Guiding Bolt attack.
Travis: How high is he?
Matt: 30 feet. He went back.
Ashley: 28?
Matt: 28 hits.
Travis: Fuck him up, Pike.
Marisha: Come on, Pike. Can you bring him down any?
Ashley: I'm rolling what again? Sorry.
Laura: What level are you casting it at?
Ashley: Four again.
Matt: How many 4th-level spells do you have left now? Because you cast--
Ashley: I have two more.
Matt: Two more? Because you cast Death Ward, which is 4th-level, I believe, right? On Scanlan?
Liam: Well, what did you do? You did Death Ward. And is that it?
Ashley: The last Guiding Bolt.
Laura: Yeah, so that's only two you used.
Matt: Right. So you have how many more left at 4th-level?
Ashley: Two. Because the ring gives me one extra.
Matt: All right, so go ahead and roll that. That is going to be 4d-- how much do you get Guiding Bolt damage on that then?
Laura: 4d6 plus an additional two or three?
Ashley: At fourth level, that would be seven, then.
Matt: That would be 7d6 radiant damage.
Ashley: 22.
Matt: 22 points of damage.
Ashley: But I'll also-- never mind. We're good, 22.
Matt: You're good. Okay.
Ashley: And then I'm going to move my Spiritual Weapon.
Matt: Okay, Spiritual Weapon, which is technically on the ground over here.
Ashley: And I'm going to move it to the back of his neck.
Matt: Let's see. Spiritual Weapon, can move it 20 feet and repeat the attack. It is more than 20 feet away.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: It's down there, so it can begin to shift upward in that direction. So we'll say that it's partway floating in midair.
Ashley: Can it get his feet?
Matt: No, it can't. It's too far away, unfortunately.
Ashley: All right, well, it'll start working its way up there.
Matt: Okay. That ends your turn, Pike. All right. It would be the eagles' turn, but they got dissolved.
Laura: Thanks, Matt. Thank you for pointing that back out.
Matt: Oh, I like to. I also want to point out that you guys held my dragon to the ground for two rounds and hit it like a goddamn pincushion.
Liam: You'll feel better once Scanlan and I have dissolved.
Matt: I will. All right. End of Pike's turn. Vax, you're up first. At the top of your round--
Liam: I'm just going to take the dragon blade and I'm going to as best as I can drag it in front of me.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I'm going to cut the insides of this--
Matt: First, you take eight points of bludgeoning damage as it is crushing you, muscles tensing on the inside are just-- You're in between musculature right now and just being crushed.
Liam: Yes. Probably its sphincter. Now what?
Matt: You are restrained, so go ahead and make your attack at disadvantage.
Liam: At disadvantage.
Laura: But it can't very well avoid it.
Matt: It's about him being able to actually move and get it.
Liam: Well, I'm using the dragon longsword, which I've never used before. It's a plus one sword, so I get what?
Matt: Plus one to hit.
Liam: With strength?
Matt: It would be strength, but we've agreed that it can work as finesse for the purposes of a dex bonus, you just can't sneak attack.
Liam: I just can't sneak attack. All right. So.
Matt: Be grateful I'm being--
Liam: Whatever you want to do, you are the deity here. So this is a 17 to hit.
Matt: 17, you pull the blade and it's just unable to cut through this tense muscle and tendon.
Liam: Use Luck.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Nothing.
Ashley: Wait, what is this? Is this an attack?
Matt: He's trying from the inside.
Ashley: Can I cast War God's Blessing?
Matt: Does War God's Blessing require you to see the creature?
Ashley: Probably not.
Matt: We'll find out.
Sam: Yeah, probably.
Travis: Probably not.
Matt: When a creature within 30 feet makes an attack roll-- So, using the Guiding Bolt, you can see shifting somewhere in the body of Umbrasyl-- (laughs) You see this form moving in there. You know, based on what you guys have discussed before-- I hope you discussed this plan before.
Liam: We discussed it so much.
Matt: That's a plus ten bonus, is that what it is?
Ashley: Plus ten.
Matt: That hits, go ahead and roll damage with the longsword.
Marisha: Is this sneak attack?
Matt: No, he doesn't get sneak attack with a long blade.
Travis: But against dragons it does specific damage.
Liam: Yeah, it does plus 3d6, if I remember.
Matt: Let me look it up here just to be safe.
Liam: 15 from the inside.
Matt: 15 damage from the inside.
Liam: Hopefully that cuts me a little breathing room. And a question that only you know, Matthew--
Matt: The extra is 3d6, you are correct.
Liam: Am I within five feet of Scanlan?
Taliesin: An extra 3d6, not just 3d6.
Liam: I got 15 damage. Am I within, I'd like to use my bonus action to sneak attack if I can, if I'm within five feet. If Scanlan is within five feet of the creature, that's up to you. I don't know. It's crazy circumstance.
Matt: The reason that you would get sneak attack for having another creature within five feet is because it is harrying and the opponent is distracted--
Liam: The heartburn is not distracting it?
Matt: Not enough.
Liam: Not enough. Okay.
Matt: There's not a lot of threat to Umbrasyl.
Laura: You get a d8 plus your d6.
Liam: Yes, I know. I did it.
Laura: Then you did the additional 3d6?
Liam: I did, darling.
Laura: And you only got 15?
Liam: I only got 15. I would like to use the dagger to cut into him as well.
Matt: All right, go for it. Disadvantage on that attack.
Liam: Disadvantage?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Oh, that's no good. That's, nah, it's 12.
Matt: You can't even get your dagger out of the sheath. It's too tight in there. You are cutting through muscle, and you feel the body and the muscle just tense based on the reaction of the interior pain. You watch the dragon, but it's still keeping up in the air.
Liam: I'm okay. Okay.
Matt: You are beginning to suffocate.
Liam: All right.
Sam: Oh, jesus.
Matt: I mean, you can hold your breath for a little while here, but just letting you know, there is no airflow. You're not suffocating yet, but you know there is no air to breathe currently.
Liam: I understand, Matthew. I'm fucked. It's fine.
Matt: All right. That's your turn. That brings us to Keyleth.
Marisha: I'm so scared. Okay, hang on. What the hell is the range on that? I'm going to just take a few steps forward, here-ish. Matt.
Matt: Right there?
Marisha: There-ish, move up a little bit. Just so I can-- Yeah, just ahead of the tree. And I'm going to attempt to cast Earthbind on him. He has to make a strength saving throw.
Matt: Strength saving throw. That is a failure. It's going to use its second legendary resistance, succeeds.
Marisha: Fuck, I knew it. Well, we've burned off two of his legendary resistances.
Liam: Also, I have no idea what the initiative order is, but Fassbender keeps doing Slow until I tell him to do something else, right?
Matt: If it recharges. Go ahead and roll a d6.
Liam: A d6.
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Two.
Matt: Two. It does not recharge Slow. Fassbender is too low. Fassbender is just standing there now.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to take the remaining of my turn. Oh shit, I actually didn't want to move. It's okay. I'm going to turn into an earth elemental.
Matt: Okay. All right.
Marisha: And I'm going to take the remaining of my movement to move up--
Matt: Up?
Marisha: Well, he has 60 feet of movement, but I moved, what, like ten feet earlier, so.
Matt: 60 feet of movement? His speed is 60?
Marisha: No, I'm sorry. His Earthglide is-- Yes, 30, so he moves up 20 feet.
Matt: 20 feet, all right. That finishes your turn, Keyleth. Scanlan, you're up. Actually, at the end of Keyleth's turn, it's going to use a legendary action to use a tail attack against you, Pike, because you are within 20 feet of it. As it's in the air, its tail whips out toward you. That is a 32 to hit. (laughter)
Ashley: Yeah. Nope. No. Doesn't hit.
Matt: You take 22 points of bludgeoning damage.
Ashley: And I'm staying up there?
Matt: You're barely holding on up there, but yes. You take the brunt of it with your shield, and it almost knocks you off the side. You manage to take your sword and dig in to the opposite side and catch yourself on the edge of the pillar. It does not knock you off. Scanlan, it is now your turn. At the top of your turn, you take six points of acid damage, reduced to three, as you've found your way into the stomach. He did not.
Sam: Is it big in there?
Matt: It's fairly spacious, but it's all squeezed together right now. It's not a giant, empty void, it's not a giant pocket of air in your stomach, it is a--
Liam: Click, motherfucker, click.
Matt: You're also holding your breath. You are also submerged in liquid that is dissolving you.
Sam: I can move my arms, though.
Matt: You can. You're still pressed in but you can move your hands, yeah.
Sam: Okay, that's good. I'm going to get that rod out and click it.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. Pulling out-- This is going to be weird. All right. So you take out the immovable rod and click it and as you release it, it stays there aloft in the center. You have darkvision as a gnome, correct?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: Right, so there in this space amongst the murky liquid you can just barely see its shape there and it is held aloft, yes.
Sam: Okay. That's good, that's positive, guys. We're getting somewhere. Is that my movement? Is that my bonus? What is that?
Matt: No, that's your action to pull it out and click it. Because it's not easy to do in your current circumstance.
Sam: Sure. Okay. Well, I guess that's my action and I guess as a bonus action I can't really do anything. (laughs) I can't inspire anyone because I don't think I can hear-- oh! I'm going to use the earring. Shit. Fuck. I'm going to just start screaming and say: can you hear me, Vax?
Matt: You guys hear through the earring, (incoherent high-pitched babbling). The air has now escaped your lungs.
Sam: Fuck!
Matt: You're not drowning yet. That ends your turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Do I get advantage on attacking it because of Guiding Bolt?
Matt: You do. The next attack, yes.
Sam: Did Vax reply?
Matt: Yeah, the Guiding Bolt, because the Guiding Bolt's technically the next attack, it did not give you advantage on the attack, because you're on the inside and you don't actually see the Guiding Bolt. It would go over to the next one.
Liam: I don't know what the fuck's going on, Matt, it's fine.
Laura: I've got to see, because I just want to know. How far does Grasping Vine go? Do you know, Keyleth?
Marisha: 60 feet? I can tell you super fast. No, 30 feet.
Laura: How high in the air is--
Matt: He is 30 feet up right now.
Marisha: You technically have a pillar that's 30 feet high adjacent to him that you can anchor it into a pillar.
Laura: I'm going to-- can it go from the bottom of the pillar up towards him?
Matt: If you want to. Down here, you mean?
Laura: Yeah, I want to try to grasp onto one of his legs and yank him back down towards the ground. Ooh, which would really hurt with the immovable rod inside of him.
Matt: Okay. All right. So using your bonus action, you conjure the vine as your one 4th-level spell.
Laura: I have two because I have a pearl of power.
Matt: Oh. So you would've had to have prepared that in advance. But yes, we'll say you do.
Laura: Okay. Oh, I didn't tell you. I should have.
Matt: You should have told me. But we'll say as part of the preparation you did that, okay. So Grasping Vine appears, lashes out from this pillar up at Umbrasyl.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right. The creature has to succeed on a dexterity saving throw or be pulled-- what's the DC on your spell?
Laura: Um, 16.
Matt: 16. That is a nine plus nine, that is 18. So the vine whips out and Umbrasyl backs up and pulls the leg up and it just hits the air beneath. Kicks away the vine.
Laura: That was my bonus.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Okay, then I'm going to attack him three times with my hasting.
Matt: Go for it. Yeah, three attacks.
Laura: All right.
Matt: First one has advantage.
Laura: Okay. 24?
Matt: 24 hits.
Laura: Okay. And that's sneak attack, because he's got somebody close to him. Inside of him.
Matt: It's technically not sneak attack. It's not so much about-- there's somebody close, but a person that is not threatening him from his current physical space, it is a bit of heartburn for him right now. You don't sneak attack somebody from eating bad pasta.
Laura: Cool. Then just seven--
Sam: Did he move?
Matt: Not yet, no. So how much damage is that?
Laura: Ten.
Matt: Ten points of damage for the first attack.
Laura: For the first attack.
Matt: Second attack? This does not have advantage, only the first one did. What was your first roll?
Laura: Then it doesn't hit. Then 26 for the last one.
Matt: 26 hits, so the first one hits, sticks part in the front of its armor, doesn't seem to phase it, the second one it actually hits the wing and the wing just shatters it and knocks it out of the air as it's keeping itself up. The third one, however, does strike and hit and it'll actually go between the scales of the neck. Roll for damage.
Laura: Nine.
Matt: Nine points of damage. Both arrows sticking out of the hardened exterior of the ancient black dragon.
Laura: The Grasping Vine just still hangs out there?
Matt: Yeah, it's just chilling on the side there. As long as you maintain concentration, it'll stay.
Travis: Is it grabbing him or not?
Matt: It failed with the grab. All right. End of your turn? Is that what you're doing?
Laura: Am I hiding still?
Matt: You have to use a bonus action to try and hide if you began the turn hiding. Or you can use your extra action from the haste to do it, but you already used it to attack, so you're not hidden.
Laura: Ugh! Fine.
Matt: (laughs) End of your turn, it's going to use another legendary action to do another tail attack against you, Pike.
Travis: Is that the third one?
Matt: That is a natural one. Umbrasyl goes to swing and suddenly there's a pulse in the stomach as you see Vax moving once again on the inside and doing so distracts it and the tail just swings overhead and you duck below it as it just barely misses your head by inches. One of your braids actually comes loose from the amount of wind that blows by. That brings us to--
Travis: What's left of the Herd.
Matt: Herd's turn.
Travis: Come on, goliaths and Herd, please roll better.
Matt: He is going to rush up around here. Grab the chains that they can. The chains have broken, so they're going to go ahead as part of their plan to begin to just unleash weaponry, so they just run through--
Marisha: Have they all broken? Maybe some just came loose.
Matt: This was their plan. The plan they agreed to. They're all taking out javelins now. They had them at their side. They're all leaping up towards it.
Laura: Are they just the stupidest goliaths, that they're all clumping together again?
Liam: That's redundant.
Laura: These guys are dumb.
Matt: You've met...
Travis: Scholars, the lot. You're going to pay for that later, by the way.
Matt: All right, so they're all going to take javelin shots at-- miss. Miss. Two-- miss. Hit. Hit. Three hits. And so they're all just (effort sounds) chucking these javelins upward. Four, eight, that's 12, plus seven-- 19 points of damage from the javelins as some stick in then fall out, the wounds are now becoming visible. Umbrasyl's-- there's visible wounding but doesn't appear to be in dire straits or anything. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Yes, I have two questions. One of the things I picked up from Kevdak were four enchanted javelins. What do those do?
Matt: They're thrown, ranged attacks.
Travis: And they're just enchanted?
Matt: They're plus one to hit and damage.
Travis: Just that.
Matt: That's it, yeah. It's a relatively simple enchantment.
Travis: What is my climbing speed? If my natural speed is 50 and I wanted to climb that column, what's the climbing speed?
Matt: Climbing speed? I mean, if you roll a decent climb check-- here. That would be-- I'd say that would be an athletics check to see if you can climb it, and I'd put it at about half speed. But you're also prone, so getting up from that's half your speed.
Travis: On my back, can I use my bonus action to drink the potion of speed, which makes me hasted?
Matt: Yes you can. You now have technically four attacks per round.
Travis: I do. And it doubles my speed, right?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Okay, so I have 100 feet, so can I stand up?
Matt: Yep. 50 feet.
Travis: Can I try and climb that column towards Umbrasyl's feet?
Matt: Athletics check.
Travis: That's not awesome. 18.
Matt: 18. You just manage to get to the top with the last bit of your movement. So you are up about ten feet from Umbrasyl right now, pushing on 15 at an angle.
Travis: So I have four attacks?
Matt: Yes. You're not in melee, though.
Travis: Yeah, so I'll use three of the enchanted javelins and the javelin of lightning.
Matt: Okay. All right, so you (effort sounds) finally with the javelin of lightning. So go ahead and make the first three strikes.
Travis: Reckless, all of them.
Matt: Okay, so with advantage on each of these. The range on the javelin strikes, I'm just going to pull it up real fast, since this is the first time you've used this.
Travis: Yeah, it's 120 feet for the javelin of lightning.
Matt: Yeah, within 30-foot range, so it's fine. Go ahead and roll. First one is?
Travis: It's an 11 plus-- just my natural like--
Matt: It's 11 plus one for being enchanted.
Travis: Right.
Matt: Plus your strength modifier and your proficiency modifier.
Travis: Oh no, my proficiency--
Matt: Which is plus seven, I believe. Plus-- so yeah, that hits.
Travis: Okay. Where's my proficiency-- oh five, I got it.
Matt: Yeah, you're looking at plus 13 with these attacks. The first one hits.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Second one.
Travis: Is 28.
Matt: Hits. Third one.
Travis: Is 19.
Matt: Misses. The lightning javelin you just throw and I think it hits.
Travis: And the second one, the last one is a 30.
Matt: The last one, I don't think you actually roll to hit with the javelin, it just becomes a bolt of lightning.
Travis: That's right.
Matt: So roll 1d6 plus eight for damage on two of those javelins.
Travis: So that's 12.
Matt: All right.
Travis: 14.
Matt: All righty. And now with the javelin of lightning. Makes its save. That is a 21 with the save. What's the DC?
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17, so it takes the half damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: What's the damage on it total?
Travis: 4d6.
Matt: Go ahead and roll that and he takes half damage.
Travis: 13.
Matt: 13, all righty. So 13, and then halved.
Travis: Six--
Matt: Six points of lightning damage. Okay. The last hit, the javelin turns into a bolt of lightning, and streaks through, hits and impacts and then just falls to the ground, the energy expended. Jamming itself into the dirt not far from the ground. End of your turn, Grog. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Okay, my first shot, taking a wing shot.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Taliesin: That's 20, that does not hit.
Matt: 20. It just ricochets off the armor.
Taliesin: All right, that's one grit. Taking another shot.
Matt: Okay, reload, and then shot again.
Taliesin: That hits. 30.
Matt: 30 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: 15 points of damage. And he has to make a strength saving throw.
Matt: Strength saving throw. That is a 19.
Taliesin: DC is 19.
Matt: Okay, so it succeeds.
Taliesin: It succeeds on the 19?
Matt: Yeah, you have to meet or exceed.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to burn an action surge to take a third shot.
Matt: All right. So reload, shot, reload. Go for it.
Taliesin: 21 does not hit?
Matt: 21 does not hit. It just steers wide, shooting past the beating wings.
Taliesin: Yeah, and then I'm going to just hide behind that tree and wait for my next round.
Matt: Okay. All right. Ending your turn, Percy. Noja is going to use the third and final Lightning Bolt, now arcing up to the entity. Makes its save with a 27. All right, bringing us to-- 8d6. 13 points of lightning damage against Umbrasyl from Noja, and Noja steps back behind, looking exasperated and spent on some of the upper-echelon spells at his disposal. Now it comes to-- actually, at the end of Noja's turn, Umbrasyl's going to use its last legendary action to make one more tail swipe at you, Grog.
Travis: Yup.
Matt: That is going to be a 29 to hit.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: All righty. You take-- that's really bad. That's 11 points of bludgeoning damage reduced to five.
Travis: I stay up?
Matt: Yeah, you stay up. (loud clanging sound from Skype)
Matt: What's happening over there?
Liam: Taliesin!
Matt: All right. Top of Umbrasyl's turn. See if this recharges. Umbrasyl is going to attempt to move to the left.
Liam: Yeah, try it, buddy. Internal damage.
Sam: The rod supports 8,000 pounds of pressure.
Matt: Correct. If the creature pushes against it, it must make a DC 30 strength check to move the rod up to ten feet in a single round. So. Nope.
Liam: That thing's fixed in space.
Matt: It goes to move and (grunts) and is feeling something tear through on the inside of its area so it stops with this sharp pain. Takes one point of damage, but the warning is there. It does not move. However, (laughs) the acid breath did recharge on a five. It's going to go ahead and go right there. Angrily lay down right there.
Laura: No!
Ashley: No!
Liam: But you're resistant.
Taliesin: Isn't he having plummeting issues if he's not moving?
Matt: No, if your speed is zero you plummet is how it works.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: No, they all fail. All right. They are all right over here. Wrecked. Wrecked. Wrecked. Wrecked.
Laura: Where's Zanror?
Matt: Zanror's right there at the bottom.
Laura: Where's his wife?
Matt: His wife is over here. And when I say wrecked, they're on the ground, their flesh dissolving and screaming in pain. The Herd has been heavily culled in but a few rounds. There's a little bit of horror to it. I need both Grog and Keyleth as an earth elemental to make a dexterity saving throw.
Travis: 16.
Marisha: I rolled a two with a minus one, so one. Not a natural one. Rolled a two.
Matt: You both suffer 82 points of acid damage.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Resistance, so I halve that?
Matt: Yeah, you take 41 points of acid damage.
Marisha: I'm in tank mode, so I'm good. I'm an earth elemental.
Matt: Unable to move, that is the end of Umbrasyl's turn. That's messed up. (laughter)
Matt: Pike, you're up.
Ashley: I am going to cast Blindness on him.
Matt: What's the DC on the check? What is it, is it wisdom?
Ashley: I think it's constitution. Constitution saving throw.
Matt: All right, constitution saving throw. That is 18 plus 14. 32. I think that succeeds.
Liam: You don't know. She might've rolled a 78.
Ashley: You don't know! That's fine. I'm going to move my Spiritual Weapon.
Matt: All right. So it now shifts up into space as a bonus action, and you can make a ranged spell attack against it as the sword arcs upward towards Umbrasyl. Go ahead and roll, add your spell attack modifier.
Ashley: 29.
Matt: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage. 1d8 plus five, correct? Pretty sure.
Ashley: 1d8 for every two slot levels--
Matt: You did second level for that one, because it was a bonus action. 1d8 plus five.
Ashley: Nine.
Matt: Nine points of damage against Umbrasyl. Blade just streaks across and more sparks fly, but this time you can see it left a carve of glowing red mark across the scales where the blade managed to do some damage to it. That ends your turn, Pike. Vax, you're up. You immediately take eight points of bludgeoning damage as it begins to crush you from the inside.
Liam: Okay. I'm going to use my bonus action to-- can I sneak attack this thing from inside? I'm inside him! That's very surprising!
Matt: It's different! It's not like a soft gooey center. All of its body is still very dense, sinewy muscle in the vicinity. You don't know where you are in its body, so you don't know where the actual weak points are. So, given those circumstances, your ability to barely move-- Probably not.
Liam: Probably not? All right. Well. I'm going to use my bonus action first to hit it. It's at disadvantage?
Matt: Yes. All attacks because you're still restrained.
Liam: Okay, so that is 19, which fucks up.
Matt: That unfortunately is not cutting through.
Liam: And now I'm going to use the dragon sword. Okay. That's a 21?
Matt: 21, just barely not able to cut through the dense hide, the blade is caught on what feels like a ligament or something, it can't quite carve through with your body all crushed up inside.
Liam: Well. I will, for my turn, suffocate and also Fassbender should still be trying to recharge.
Matt: Correct. So go ahead and roll a d6.
Liam: d6. Four.
Matt: Four. Fassbender's still standing there. On a five or six, it recharges. That ends Vax's turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. As an earth elemental I want to drop into the earth and Earthglide.
Matt: All right. How many feet are you going?
Marisha: With my 60 feet-- question, can I get across and to the top of this pillar here? Maybe?
Matt: Oh, right there?
Marisha: That one.
Matt: You can get up to there. You're wider than the pillar, though. You like--
Marisha: Earthglide to the top, so it's 30 feet tall. (nervous laughter) And I'm going to use my momentum to see if I can rocket myself out and see if I can jump and grab onto his leg.
Matt: Okay, so you're making this a jump action, then?
Marisha: Yeah, I want to shoot out of the pillar.
Matt: Using the momentum of the Earthglide?
Marisha: And shoot out with a waterslide trajectory, woo! Yeah? Maybe?
Matt: Okay. I'll say that-- It's pretty fast-- Also pretty heavy as an earth elemental.
Marisha: I'm thinking about it real hard.
Matt: Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Marisha: So is that strength as a--
Matt: That would be strength as an earth elemental if you do not have a specific skill for it.
Marisha: I'm going to use Scanlan's inspiration. Ooh, that's good. 18 plus five, so, 23.
Matt: 23. You manage to leap and catch the bottom of its foot. (cheering)
Matt: You're not halting or doing anything to Umbrasyl other than the fact that you're holding on to--
Marisha: But I've got his foot. And I'm heavy as fuck. Well, if Fassbender weighs, what was it, like 1,200 pounds? 2,800 pounds?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: So I'm at least as heavy if not heavier than Fassbender.
Marisha: A ton is 1,000 pounds. Right?
Matt: 2,000.
Marisha: 2,000 pounds.
Laura: I thought a ton was 3,000 pounds.
Marisha: None of us fucking know. Why didn't we go metric?
Matt: The European watchers are like--
Marisha: Yeah, what are they talking about? Okay. I'm holding on for dear life.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I know from my experience going to the pubs with Grog--
Matt: Take eight points of acid damage, by the way, as you're slowly dissolving. Reduced to four.
Sam: I'm fine. How's my lungs?
Matt: Oh Keyleth, by the way, I need you to make a concentration check before I forget.
Marisha: Okay. Yeah. No, that's. Wait, do I add anything?
Matt: Well the DC is half the damage you took from the breath weapon, so 40. So who did you cast the resist acid on? You're no longer resistant to acid, Grog.
Travis: Copy that.
Marisha: Sorry.
Travis: No, it came in handy for the one.
Marisha: It did.
Sam: How's my lungs? Am I dying here?
Matt: Your air is out, you're still holding your breath, per se, but you have one more round before you actually probably start--
Liam: I would like to say that Liam O'Brien, who's a total wuss-puss, can hold his breath for like 50 seconds.
Sam: While you're screaming?
Liam: So Vax and Scanlan should be--
Matt: You're doing okay. He screamed and released all the air out of his lungs. So he's now completely collapsed lungs, no air to subsist on.
Sam: I'm almost out. I'm going to see if I can last one more round in here.
Matt: Okay, what are you doing? (laughs)
Sam: Well, as I was saying, I know from my time drinking with Grog that any sort of blow to the stomach will really make you barf pretty easily, so I'm going to set off a Thunderwave at level six and hope that he spits me up.
Ashley: Spits you both up, maybe.
Liam: I'm still in its anus.
Travis: We don't even know where you are, really.
Sam: You're done, friend, sorry.
Matt: All right, so at a sixth level we're looking at 7d8 thunder damage.
Sam: Yes. Thunder damage.
Matt: Go ahead and roll that.
Marisha: Do you need more d8s?
Liam: All part of the plan.
Sam: Yeah, this is totally thought-out.
Liam: The hastily smushed-together plan.
Sam: 7d8?
Matt: That is a DC, it rolled a nine plus 14, so it succeeds.
Sam: So it'll be halved.
Matt: Half damage.
Sam: Okay.
Liam: Eat some shit, Umbrasyl.
Sam: 25.
Matt: 25.
Sam: Only 12 points.
Matt: 12 points. I need you to make a constitution saving throw, because you are on the other side of the membrane from Scanlan and suddenly there's a giant impactful forceful blow as the outside of the stomach crushes--
Liam: Natural 20! (cheering)
Matt: You take 12 points of damage as well.
Liam: (laughs) Okay, I'll take it.
Matt: Constitution saving throw on Umbrasyl's part for-- Rolled a natural 20, so Umbrasyl's not vomiting.
Sam: Not vomiting.
Matt: Nope, rolled a natural 20 to see if it could hold it down. There's a boof from the inside of the dragon--
Sam: Does a little come up and he swallows it back down?
Matt: Basically. A little, almost.
Ashley: Maybe you got a little air though. For you.
Sam: I don't know, did that make a little air?
Ashley: Probably give you enough time to (inhales).
Matt: From the source of the force that probably pushed it away for a second, air is pulled through the esophagus instinctually as when the space opens it has to suck through, there's this (gasp) sound, so yes, there is a moment of air that is pushed back out. You can see upwards a brief little glimpse of light at the top of the esophagus as the mouth is forced open as the air is pulled in and the blast streaks out angrily. Scanlan, is that your turn?
Sam: I can't do much else. Do I have any movement?
Matt: You are restrained so your movement is zero.
Sam: Even in the water? I'm in a womb-like state.
Matt: You're not like floating in a giant pool of water. You're crushed against membranes with acid. Remember the scene in Akira when Tetsuo gets too big and the girl gets crushed briefly? You're in that middle period right there, you're between two folds of stomach lining and there is just acid all around. It's awesome.
Sam: All right. Then I can't really do much. Oh! Shit. No, I would've had to call it earlier. Never mind.
Ashley: What?
Liam: I just want to remind everyone, I am really small. I fit between muscles, bones, ligaments, anything.
Sam: I could have done Cutting Words after I cast my spell, but I didn't, so forget it. Shit.
Matt: At the end of your turn, it's going to use a legendary action to do a wing attack, actually two actions cost. Begins beating its wings rapidly in this vicinity. I need both Grog and Pike to make dexterity saving throws.
Liam: Scanlan, we're safe from all this shit.
Sam: I know! This is the best place to be. We're only going to suffocate and be crushed.
Travis: 18.
Ashley: 18.
Matt: Both of you take 15 points of bludgeoning damage and are thrust towards the edge of the stone, I need you both to make strength checks to resist the force to the blow.
Marisha: Hold on! Nice.
Travis: 21.
Ashley: Ten.
Travis: Is 15 halved for me for the bludgeoning, or is that already halved?
Matt: No, it's halved for you after that. However, you both are, from the sheer force of the wind, blown off the top--
Travis: A 21?
Marisha: What did you have to beat?
Matt: 23. Ancient dragon. You both fall and take an additional eight points of bludgeoning damage.
Ashley: I'm going to use my celestial shield and cast Featherfall.
Matt: Okay. So you take no damage from the additional seven. You catch yourself on the ground.
Travis: My eight is halved.
Matt: Yeah, you're both prone at the bottom of the pillars. All right. That was the end of Scanlan's turn. Back to the top, Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to try Conjure fucking Animals again. By the way, I was wrong. My pearl of power only works up to level three, so I don't have two level fours, I already used the one. So. Conjure Animals, again, two more giant eagles out of the ether. This time I want to conjure them like ten feet above his head.
Matt: Okay. Actually, because I didn't see you I need you to go ahead and make a save as well, because you were on it as it's beating its wings, too.
Marisha: Even though I'm holding on to his leg?
Matt: Yep. Go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Marisha: That's not good. Four.
Matt: Four. You also take 15 points of bludgeoning damage.
Marisha: Halved because I'm an elemental.
Matt: And I need you to go ahead and make a strength saving throw.
Marisha: Strength? 19.
Matt: 19. You are blown off of the dragon's body.
Marisha: That sucks.
Matt: Like a rock slamming into the ground.
Laura: Oh, she knocked out a pillar on the way down.
Matt: You take 12 points of bludgeoning damage from the impact with the ground, leaving a small crater. However, there are two giant eagles that are now floating in the vicinity around the dragon. The eagles are summoned. Their initiative is not bad. They're going to be after Grog.
Laura: Okay. So they're above his head now, so if he shoots acid down, they'll be here. And their command is, attack his eyeballs. Okay. I'm going to use my boots of haste. For my perception, would I be able to see any weird little bumps on the dragon? Because my brother's been in there a while. Can I see anything going on?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: I'm behind his left nipple. It's pretty good already. It's pretty good.
Sam: Our earrings should work.
Laura: I'm sorry.
Sam: We don't need to talk.
Laura: 28. No, 29 perception.
Matt: 29? All right. You notice, on the outskirts of like the central row of scales, there is a small lump that is constantly struggling not far from the surface and is just darting around like a cartoon flea.
Laura: I'm going to aim right by there. But not quite at it. I want to make an opening around it.
Matt: All right. Roll for it.
Liam: Man, remember when we used to do hopscotch? That was the best. And then also we used to take baths together when we were really little, but that was when we were really little--
Laura: 20. Doesn't hit.
Matt: 20, it hits and shatters--
Ashley: Can I use War God's Blessing again? I use it every turn. Every round.
Matt: I think it's a Channel Divinity, in which case I don't think you can. War God's Blessing, Channel Divinity-- Which currently-- You can use it a second time between rests. Yeah. So you can.
Ashley: Let's do it.
Matt: So that does hit.
Laura: Oh, it hits?
Matt: Plus ten to the attack, so it hits.
Laura: Oh my goodness!
Travis: Pike!
Liam: Vex'ahlia--
Laura: Ten damage.
Matt: Let's see here, what's the range on that one?
Marisha: He's consulting the book again.
Matt: Just checking to see the range on that last because it does have a range--
Laura: He's getting my hopes up and then he's going to dash them down to the ground.
Matt: It's what I do. Creature within 30 feet of you makes an attack roll, so you could not, unfortunately.
Ashley: What was that, say again?
Matt: Has to be within 30 feet of you. She's too far away. So that one does miss, shatters across the armor of the dragon. You have one more attack and then your extra if you want to.
Laura: That one doesn't work either. (mock-crying) Okay, that's good. 23!
Matt: 23 hits.
Laura: Okay. 11.
Matt: 11 points of damage.
Sam: Yeah, he's dead!
Laura: How do I want to do this? (laughter)
Matt: You can't summon it yourself.
Laura: Dammit!
Matt: Sticks into and pierces through. You feel a (impact sound) nearby. And what little bit of vision you have in the squeezed area, dark as it is using your elven darkvision, you can see what looks to be a part of an arrow point that has stuck through the armor.
Liam: I wrap my fingers around it.
Matt: Okay. Ends Vex's turn.
Sam: You don't know if it's Vex's. It could be anybody's!
Liam: Shut the fuck up, gnome!
Matt: At this point, Zanror looks over to Worra and says, "We have to go. Save our child." And Worra looks and sees all the dead around her. "Only if you come with me." Looks back and says, "No. I don't run from this. I'm going to kill this with my cousin." She turns and goes into a full dash this way, escaping. This guy's going to go ahead and begin to climb up. And gets partway up. Not all the way. Take a step back and make four arrow shots at it. That's a hit, a miss, a miss, and a miss. Takes an additional ten points of damage from the arrow. That guy over there is going to move around and he's going to grab one of the dropped chains on the ground and throw it up to see if it can wrap around Umbrasyl. Seven does not hit. It just arcs below and falls to the ground. That's going to end the Herd's turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Still hasted. Can I stand up?
Matt: Okay, so 50 feet.
Travis: And with the Titanstone Knuckles, can I smash them together and cast Enlarge on myself? (cheering)
Travis: How tall am I?
Matt: You are twice your size, so you're pushing about 12 feet.
Laura: He's only six feet tall?
Marisha: He's gotta be taller than six feet.
Matt: It's roughly half your height, not perfect--
Liam: You're 15 feet tall now, Grog.
Laura: Yeah, 20 feet, you're probably 20 feet.
Marisha: 15 sounds nicer. Rounds up.
Matt: Don't argue with the DM.
Marisha: I'm not arguing, we're rounding up.
Liam: You're like two feet tall now and it's really impressive.
Travis: Being that I'm hasted, can I move directly behind Umbrasyl, like underneath him and behind? And can I attach the chain of returning to the Bloodaxe--
Matt: I assume it was attached before the battle.
Travis: Yes. And can I throw it at Umbrasyl?
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: Do I have four? No, I just have one throw.
Matt: You have one throw. It hits and then you can pull it back.
Travis: If I want to.
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Reckless.
Matt: Yes.
Travis: That's even better. 29.
Matt: 29 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: 21. With one point of necrotic damage.
Matt: 21 points of damage onto Umbrasyl. All righty. It is embedded in there. Do you want to pull back?
Travis: I don't want to pull it loose. I just want to weigh on it.
Matt: Okay, you weigh. All right. At the end of your turn, it's going to go ahead and make a tail attack against one of the eagles. That is going to be a 21 to hit.
Laura: I bet that hits.
Matt: The giant eagle takes 20 points of bludgeoning damage.
Laura: I'm sure that probably kills him.
Marisha: He has 26 hit points.
Laura: He's got six points left.
Matt: Okay, so the eagle right there has six hit points left.
Travis: Does enlarging do anything to my damage? Sorry.
Matt: You do an additional 1d4 damage with any melee attacks.
Travis: I didn't do that. Can I do that?
Matt: Melee attacks. Although the weapon does grow large. I'll say go ahead and do another 1d4.
Travis: Hey, four!
Matt: There you go. So that's an additional four damage. Great. So that's the eagles' turn. What do you got, Laura?
Laura: They're going to fly and attack his eyeballs! Fuck him up.
Ashley: Get him!
Matt: Roll attack, they have two attacks each, so roll four attacks.
Laura: Roll four attacks?
Matt: Yes. Plus five to each.
Liam: That one hits.
Laura: That's good. That hits. That one doesn't.
Matt: 23 hits.
Laura: Ooh! Then one other attack hits.
Matt: So two hits. All right. So that is--
Laura: So those would be, like, one beak and one talon maybe?
Matt: It would be one beak and one talon, yeah. Go for it. So 1d6 plus three and then 2d6 plus three.
Laura: Nine for one on the eyeballs.
Matt: Nice.
Laura: And eight on the talons.
Matt: Not bad. Both streaking out and clawing heavily at the dragon. It's bothered by it very remotely. It's more distracted with the sharp pain in its stomach.
Laura: Eyeballs.
Matt: Well yeah, I mean, they're striking at it, they don't go straight for the eyeballs, the dragon goes here, hit. They're getting near it and scraping it, the scales around it, it's moving its horns around and batting them away. If you wanted to make called shots for its eyes specifically, none of those would've hit. Outside of a natural 20, none of them would've hit. And even a dragon's eyes have pretty decent armor.
Laura: That's cool, okay, good to know.
Matt: So Percy, you're up. Oh, we've lost audio on Percy.
Laura: Oh no!
Sam: Text us your move.
Taliesin: No, I'm good.
Matt: What are you doing?
Taliesin: All right. I'm taking two shots. That's all I got left.
Matt: All right. Go for it.
Taliesin: Here we go. 23?
Matt: 23 hits.
Taliesin: Ah! Hm. Ah. Okay. That's, eee, (broken audio).
Travis: Say that again, Perce.
Taliesin: 20, 24 points of damage.
Matt: Nice.
Taliesin: Six of which are necrotic. I'm taking my second shot.
Matt: All right. Reload, second shot.
Taliesin: Reload, fire. Fuck my life. That's m--(audio glitches)
Matt: Misfire? Oh no. Bad News just (muffled explosion).
Taliesin: Putting it away, pulling out the other gun.
Matt: All right, so that's the end of your turn?
Taliesin: That's the end of my turn.
Matt: All right. Noja actually is getting scared, yeah. Noja is actually hiding behind the tree and is shaking now, his body, malnourishment that whole time and this dragon taking all of these blows and is still standing has gotten to his head. Umbrasyl is going to look around in the vicinity, you know, starting to show some wear and tear and some serious damage to it now. And it's going to go into a dive. As it does so, you watch as the rod hits the edge of the body and tears through the stomach.
Liam: Damage.
Matt: And tears through the abdomen and out the side of it. The immovable rod now shoots out the side of its body.
Marisha: That's going to be a lot of damage, right?
Liam: That's a fuckin' missile.
Matt: That is 37 points of piercing damage as it ejects from the side. He is going to--
Travis: I'm still attached to him, too.
Matt: Correct. As you are pulled up, let's see here.
Travis: I'm going for a ride.
Marisha: We burned through all of his legendary saves.
Sam: One more.
Liam: You're attached to him? By a chain?
Travis: Yup.
Matt: You, Grog, are now being lifted up. Make a strength check.
Travis: Advantage on this. 24.
Matt: 24, yeah. Umbrasyl lifts up and goes full flying speed of 80 feet this way, carrying you dangling beneath and is going to go into a dash and continue to fly up towards Gatshadow.
Sam: (terrified laughter)
Liam: He's scared.
Matt: With Scanlan and Vax inside him still.
Liam: Work that broom, girl!
Matt: Grog dangling from beneath. And that's where we're going to pick up the next one. (yelling)
Matt: It's midnight!
Travis: Three of us are not here next week.
Matt: Three of you are not here-- That's right. Do you guys want to keep going then?
Liam: Yes!
Travis: It's either that or--
Matt: Or you're going to have to wait two weeks.
Travis: We're not here.
Laura: What do you guys think? Would you rather wait two weeks?
Liam: I want to go.
Laura: I mean, this is you guys, too. You guys have to stay.
Sam: You want to go, keep going?
Liam: Keep going.
Sam: It could be a long night.
Ashley: Who's not here next week?
Travis: Laura, Travis, and Sam.
Matt: Yeah, we're probably going to take off next week because we're missing half the party.
Sam: Oh, so we'll just skip next week and come back in two weeks.
Liam: No, it's on us, because we have jobs and getting up in the morning.
Matt: Yeah, we have work tomorrow.
Sam: Why don't we skip next week and come back in two weeks to finish?
Laura: I feel like that's smarter.
Matt: All right, let's do that.
Liam: You're leaving me in this thing's anus for two weeks?
Travis: That 30 minutes fucked us.
Matt: Picking up in two weeks from now. (yelling)
Marisha: This is awful.
Sam: The worst cliffhanger ever.
Matt: We have the remnants of the Herd and most of Vox Machina left behind as Umbrasyl flies off to the peaks of Gatshadow, dragging a large chain-held Grog beneath and a miniaturized Vax and Scanlan inside of its body.
Liam: Yeah, but I'm holding an arrow that's half in and out of the dragon. So I've got a little tunnel out.
Marisha: Make a little breathing hole?
Sam: I see a hole that goes to the outside now.
Travis: It's the shaft of an arrow.
Taliesin: This is chaos. I will see you guys later. I can't hear anything.
Marisha: Bye, Taliesin! We love you!
Matt: Oh man, this is going to get real interesting.
Sam: How are we going to survive two weeks thinking about this? I know what we'll do! We'll subscribe to Loot Crate and we'll find all sorts of things to keep us-- We'll be able to play with new toys and drink from-- (laughing)
Travis: Made me drop my fucking jelly bean.
Laura: That went south. That went seriously south.
Sam: We're not doing well.
Travis: We're doing great.
Matt: You guys did pretty good. Dragon's taken some damage.
Liam: Is it two Thursdays from now yet?
Matt: No, but it will be soon. All right, guys. We'll figure out what we're doing next Thursday. It might be another Q&A hangout session for those of us who are still in town.
Liam: Son of a b.
Ashley: Why are you guys going?
Marisha: Are you still going to be in Puerto Rico that long? No?
Travis: No.
Matt: They got birthday events and travel to do. It's all good. We'll be back here in two weeks, back here next week for probably a Q&A hangout session, two weeks from now with the dramatic conclusion of the showdown with Umbrasyl the Hope Devourer, member of the Chroma Conclave.
Liam: Matt, if you were wondering what to get me for my birthday, it's to kill my character in two weeks.
Laura: No! That is so terrible. Don't say that.
Matt: (laughs) That's awful.
Marisha: Such a death wish.
Liam: Kill me.
Laura: No.
Marisha: Hope Devourer. Maiden name Hope. Maiden name Hope.
Liam: The dragon's name is Hope.
Matt: We'll see you in a few weeks? Well, some of us will see you next week. Rest well, dream of flying dragons digesting smaller people. (laughs) See you guys soon. Is it Thursday yet? Good night.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around playing Dungeons and Dragons and say inappropriate things before the camera starts.
Travis: Every time!
Matt: Anyway, we have back in person our illustrious rogue, Vax'ildan.
Travis: Welcome back, baby!
Matt: Happy to have you back. Let's get through our announcements quickly so we can hop into the game, because we have a lot to discuss. A lot of things to see. A lot of places to go. First and foremost, if we can give an awesome shout-out to our sponsor Loot Crate. Once again been awesome to the show. Once again, they have their theme this month. Sam, did you want to say a thing or two?
Sam: The theme this month is Sam. (laughter)
Sam: It's an odd theme. It's all shirts that I've worn. No, the theme this month for Loot Crate is the anti-hero. That's part of the Loot Crate theme and the Loot Wear theme. Not just the box, but the bag as well. But you know what I love?
All: What do you love, Sam?
Sam: I love toys. I love socks. I love shirts. I love posters. I love collectibles. I love pins. I love boxes. And I love deals. And you can get all of those things in combination if you get a subscription to Loot Crate. If you use lootcrate.com/-- that's a forward slash-- CriticalRole, you will be instantly shown a showcase of all the Loot Crate offerings. And you'll get three, not one, not two, a little less than four, but $3 off a monthly subscription.
Laura: It's just the first month. It's just $3 off the very first month.
Sam: Well, that's not as good. (laughter)
Sam: But let's be real, it's still pretty good.
Travis: Where'd you get that great t-shirt you're wearing?
Sam: I am the best at advertising. (laughter)
Taliesin: Why did you have those notes with you?
Sam: (clears throat) Goodbye, Loot Crate. (laughter)
Sam: $3 off the first month is great, though. It's still great. It's still a good intro. It's essentially like getting-- I don't know, I'm done.
Laura: It's $3 just for writing a word.
Liam: It gets you in, and when you're in, you don't want to get out.
Travis: And they got really good stuff. You got your t-shirt from Loot Crate, Voltron.
Sam: Oh! I'm wearing a Loot Crate t-shirt right now. It fits. It makes me look strong and handsome.
Matt: It's true. It's true. If that $3 can buy you a six-inch sandwich at an undisclosed location where sandwiches can be constructed, purchased by artisans.
Travis: Yes!
Matt: Thank you so much, Sam.
Sam: Sure, I did really good.
Matt: You did great, Sam. That was wonderful. Taliesin, you're handling it next week.
Taliesin: (groans) Okay. (laughter)
Matt: All right, next announcements. Two weeks from now, the first Thursday of September, I myself, Marisha, and Taliesin will be out of town. We'll be in the middle of the desert. However, the rest of the crew here will be playing a one-shot game, dungeon mastered by our wonderful, recently proven skilled dungeon master here, Liam O'Brien.
Liam: I'm all growed up.
Matt: Somehow in the canon world of Exandria. So we'll see how that plays out for you guys. I'm really excited to see what you pull together, man.
Liam: I have something very delightful planned.
Matt: So that'll be fun. So look forward to that in a couple of weeks. We'll be thinking of you guys while we're not here, but watch this guy be evil. It's going to be great. Anything else anyone wants to discuss?
Liam: I would like to announce that I am so goddamn happy to be back in this room.
Travis: Yeah! Back in the pilot chair.
Sam: Wait a second, pilot chair?
Marisha: Just don't think about it too much.
Matt: Can I also point out today that the official World of Warcraft Twitter made a Critical Role joke?
Taliesin: Is that true?
Matt: Someone sent them a piece of fanart that had a Jaina and an Illidan talking, and the Critical Role, or the response to me from World of Warcraft, was: the Legion is coming towards you. How do you want to do this? That made me happy. So let's dive in to tonight's episode of chaos and heroic whim.
Liam: What's going to happen?
Matt: Out here, we dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back. Last we left off, Vox Machina, in their search for the Vestiges of Divergence to gain artifacts powerful enough to rival, hopefully, the power of the Chroma Conclave, a group of chromatic dragons that have been terrorizing the countryside of Tal'Dorei. The party has just finished their journey through the Feywild, a strange, magically overgrown realm of fey creatures, illusion, and apparently, corrupt tree-bros. After a fight with this long-mentally disturbed fey, heartbroken and driven to vengeance and soiling the land around him, you defeated him and took from him the bow, Fenthras, which you've been seeking. Your Vestige, Vex.
Laura: That's right. That's right.
Matt: You then gathered hands and through the magical capabilities of Keyleth, the druid of the Air Ashari, you managed to Plane Shift the rest of the party back to Whitestone itself. Speaking of which--
Laura: Already? Already?
Marisha: How long have we been gone?
Matt: All right, and I also need Scanlan, Percy, and Grog to roll wisdom saving throws.
Sam: What did we do to deserve that?
Taliesin: We all deserve it. We know we do. That was terrible. I have a thing called Resolve and I have one usage of it left. May I use it?
Matt: You get to reroll a saving throw? Yeah, you may.
Taliesin: Okay.
Sam: Would this be magic, Matt?
Taliesin: That's double.
Marisha: Goddamn it.
Matt: It's a magical effect.
Travis: We're in trouble.
Sam: If it's not magic, then I have an 11.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Guys, drama needs conflict.
Taliesin: Eight.
Travis: Six.
Laura: Oh my god!
Liam: Hot damn!
Taliesin: I'm so excited.
Matt: No. As the portal shifts closed behind you, you all step out into the center of the Whitestone city square. You can see behind you the Sun Tree where you guys left originally. It is midday. Clouds are high in the sky. Little breaks where you can see beams of sunlight coming through. Looks like there's a darker rainstorm coming, probably in the next half-day or so, off in the distant northwest, and there are now townspeople looking about at the group of you guys. Keyleth, Scanlan, Vex, and Vax: returning, your mind feels a little fuzzy, but overall nothing seems to have affected you. You're glad to be back. Percy and Grog, you are very confused how you got here and not quite sure why nothing has happened since you gathered here as friends. Yes?
Taliesin: So do we have a straight piece of missing time? Are we still waiting to go to the Feywild?
Matt: As far as you guys know right now, you guys are still waiting.
Marisha: That's horrible for Percy. You've wanted to go your whole fucking life!
Travis: All right, I'm ready to go!
Taliesin: How long does this spell take?
Travis: Yeah, do we have to wait long, because I have the pee. You know? Where you're like hide-and-go-seek pee?
Taliesin: I did, but I feel fine now.
Laura: Ready to go to the actual castle?
Travis: Feywild.
Liam: Keyleth just brought us back. We're back.
Laura: We're back from the Feywild.
Taliesin: You're a terrible liar. (laughs)
Liam: That's true, but it's irrelevant. What the fuck are you talking about?
Taliesin: What are you talking about?
Marisha: Does the name Garmelie ring a bell?
Laura: If he doesn't remember we went, does that mean I lose my title?
Liam: Maybe you can work it out?
Marisha: You titled Vex'ahlia.
Taliesin: I did what?
Laura: Oh no!
Sam: You gave Vex'ahlia a title in your Whitestone kingdom. She was the Duchess of some hut.
Taliesin: Can someone who can't successfully lie to me please explain to me what's going on?
Laura: Baroness. Lady Vex'ahlia, Baroness of the Third House of Whitestone, Grand Mistress of the Grey Hunt.
Taliesin: How do you know about the Grey Hunt?
Laura: I don't know anything about the Grey Hunt, but it's written down on a piece of paper you gave me, Percy.
Taliesin: Is it written on a piece of paper?
Marisha: It is written on a piece of paper.
Laura: That I actually threw out because I fixed up my notes. So I don't have the piece of paper in this world binder.
Travis: What a dicklord. You did not throw out the paper.
Marisha: Someone wrote it down, right?
Travis: You piece of shit. Why did you throw it away? What a fucking--
Taliesin: This is how I know you're lying, because if I had written that down, you wouldn't have thrown it away. That's ridiculous.
Laura: No, no, it's definitely right here.
Liam: Are you certain you're not trying to do comedy right now?
Taliesin: I feel funny. I don't know-- for the sake of actual sanity, does she actually have the piece of paper that he wrote down?
Sam: Did he write something down?
Taliesin: I did, I wrote it down for her and handed to her.
Laura: He did, and it's just, it's in my-- so I don't have it.
Matt: You would've had it with you. You would've definitely had it with you. And yeah, she does.
Laura: I would still have it. It's just not in this particular not-in-that-world binder.
Liam: It's not in this realm.
Sam: The binder that Vex carries is much, much better.
Taliesin: It's got like fur. And some like--
Laura: Keeps it under her arm the whole time.
Liam: There are more worlds than these.
Laura: It's got a happy kitten on it that says "hang in there."
Liam: It says life-- (laughter)
Laura: Life needs things to live?
Taliesin: I don't know what's so funny about that either. I don't remember any of that.
Liam: It grows on you so quickly, though.
Laura: Grog.
Travis: What?
Marisha: Show him the paper, Vex.
Laura: Oh, here. It's right here. Right here. That's your handwriting, don't you see it?
Marisha: We were committing.
Taliesin: It's fine. I'm happy to commit to this. Why? What hap--? What?
Laura: Oh god.
Marisha: We were in Syngorn.
Sam: Wait, I think I can help. I'm going to cast Modify Memory on Percy.
Laura: And Grog's just content sitting over here completely blank.
Liam: Eating chicken that he found on the road.
Taliesin: This is so exciting.
Marisha: Little gamey?
Taliesin: I've never seen him laugh like that before.
Matt: This is-- this is a way to do it. All right. All right.
Sam: I can help you remember, Percy. Just look into my eyes.
Taliesin: I don't want to.
Sam: Look into my eyes. (laughter)
Taliesin: Well, that's getting giffed. Okay, yeah.
Laura: But wait, are you just going to make up what he remembers? No!
Matt: Percy, I need you to make a wisdom saving throw.
Taliesin: Oh, and I'm out of Resolve.
Matt: What is your spell DC? Is this with the cone? Scanlan, is this with the cone?
Sam: With the cone. I want this to work.
Marisha: You're going to pull-- screaming in his face.
Taliesin: Wow, eight.
Marisha: What the fuck?
Matt: Scanlan, how do you modify his memory? Because at this level you can alter the memories of an event that took up to seven days ago.
Travis: What level are you doing?
Sam: Level seven.
Matt: But you can only modify ten minutes of it.
Liam: Speaking as Liam, remember that this is a man who gave an evil sword-- he gave crystal meth to Grog.
Taliesin: The best crystal meth! The finest crystal meth in Christendom.
Sam: I can change any memory. Ah, what was it called?
Taliesin: Ten minutes.
Sam: What was your title called? There's nothing on this piece of paper! (laughter)
Travis: Inception.
Laura: Lady Vex'ahlia. Baroness of the Third House of Whitestone and the Grand Mistress of the Grey Hunt.
Sam: Jesus Christ. Baroness of what?
Laura: Of the Third House of Whitestone.
Taliesin: And Grand Mistress of the Grey Hunt.
Liam: I have no patience for any of this shit.
Sam: Whitestone and Grand Mistress of the Grey Hunt.
Laura: Of all the ten minutes to have him remember, maybe that's not the one to focus on.
Taliesin: It's not remembering. He's going to be making it up. I'm not actually going to remember it, he's going to lie.
Laura: Make up something wonderful for him. He's wanted to go there his entire life. Make something magical.
Taliesin: You don't have time to have this conversation. This is happening right now.
Matt: Yeah, go for it.
Taliesin: This isn't happening. Fuck with me. I'm so excited.
Matt: Scanlan.
Sam: Oh my god. When did we leave? How many days has it been?
Matt: It's been close to a week in the Feywild total, all the nights you've rested.
Sam: I can only modify ten minutes of time.
Matt: Correct.
Sam: So I can't build the whole story up.
Matt: No, he'll remember ten minutes that you plug in right now.
Taliesin: And by remember meaning whatever you explain.
Sam: All right.
Matt: And remember, as truth, whatever ten minutes he hands out. This spell is one of my favorite spells in the game.
Travis: This is amazing.
Sam: All right, I don't know. I'm going to make him remember that we landed in the Feywild together as a group. It was a beautiful field filled with naked nymphs and fey creatures that all came to him and gave him a wonderful full-body massage.
Taliesin: Very uncomfortable, all right. But no, that was tension. Okay, yes.
Sam: Vex saw him and he did not want anyone to know about this moment that he had. So in a fit of panic, he gave her something, anything, a title. A title to make her keep her confidence. The title was Lady Vex'ahlia, the Baroness of the Third House of Whitestone and Grand Mistress of the Gray Hut. (laughter)
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: She agreed to keep his secret and he had a wonderful time before his memory fades.
Taliesin: Oh my. Wait, that was-- we were-- but there was-- you shouldn't, no! Yes! I did do this. Yes.
Laura: You remember?
Taliesin: I do, and we will never discuss why again, but yes, I did do this, and I'm so glad I wrote it down correctly because that was very embarrassing. I'll have this approved.
Laura: Approved?
Taliesin: Yes, well, I'm going to make sure I have to-- of course inform-- Yes.
Travis: Who's yes?
Matt: It seems the awkward curse of the Feywild has set into a couple of your allies.
Taliesin: I, apparently, am missing an awful lot of time. But this did happen. Yes, okay.
Liam: Well, Percival, look at this. Show him the bow.
Taliesin: Oh, that kind of bow.
Travis: Whoa!
Laura: Oh, Grog, it's really badass. You killed the guy that was holding it. You.
Travis: Me? So it's mine?
Marisha: I pull out the piece of the petrified crocodile. We killed this, too. This is all that's left of him.
Travis: What? Those are like amazing things.
Laura: Wait, is this normal? Would we have known that this is normal for people to lose their memory when they come out of the fucking Feywild?
Matt: No, you would have no idea.
Laura: We wouldn't have learned any of that in our studies. No?
Matt: Your studies aren't extensive on the Feywild, and the people that may know, partially, are suffering from the circumstance.
Travis: There's a petrified crocodile. What else did you see while we were in this magical place?
Sam: To be honest, my memory is foggy as well.
Matt: No, a little bit. But you guys weren't heavy studiers. You weren't the most studious children.
Laura: (whispers) I was a studious child.
Matt: For certain things.
Laura: I was a very studious child. He cheated off my tests all the time. I was incredibly studious.
Marisha: Percy, I am so sorry. I know how badly you wanted to go there. But here's the good news. Now that I've been there, we can go back at any time.
Taliesin: Really? You promise?
Laura: Grog, did this happen last time you went to the Feywild?
Travis: What?
Laura: When you-- do you remember-- okay.
Liam: I really don't think we need to worry about Grog so much. I think he's fine.
Travis: Thank you.
Laura: You killed so many things, Grog. You fought so many people.
Taliesin: Oh god! Did we get alcohol? Did someone give us alcohol?
Laura: No.
Taliesin: Damn.
Liam: But that can happen today.
Taliesin: Yeah, but it won't be fairy alcohol, but I know.
Marisha: Yeah, we've been, naturally, without alcohol.
Laura: We need to find Pike. Pike came to help us.
Taliesin: How long have we been gone for?
Sam: Pike was there.
Laura: Five days?
Sam: I don't know, it's a bit foggy, but a few days.
Liam: Guys, let's just go find a wizard and some alcohol, in whichever order.
Taliesin: I'm going to go file this and I'll meet you in a moment.
Laura: There's Gilmore, we could talk to him. Allura? Maybe she can help.
Taliesin: Here. I'm going to make sure that that's finalized with the correct spelling.
Liam: Jabba the Hutt. Not that grand to me. I start walking off towards the castle.
Sam: We're in Whitestone?
Matt: You're in Whitestone, currently, yes.
Liam: Come on!
Sam: All right, let's go.
Travis: We just left there.
Liam: Just eat your pigeon and come along, Grog.
Taliesin: Strange. Suddenly, I am hungry. Are you suddenly hungry?
Travis: Yeah.
Taliesin: We should eat something.
Laura: I make sure Trinket's out of the necklace.
Marisha: Yes, I could use a glass of wine.
Taliesin: I could use a carafe of wine.
Matt: Trinket licks the side of your face. Nuzzles you as you walk towards the castle.
Travis: Wait, if you got a bow, and there were pixies, and you gave her something, did I get anything? Did I pick up any diseases?
Laura: Lots of diseases.
Sam: You fought bravely. And often. You wielded your weapon strongly and proudly, and had many definite physical encounters, and were never frozen. And showed your power and defended us to the best of your ability.
Liam: You waded through blood, Grog.
Travis: Can I insight check Scanlan?
Matt: (laughs) You can. Scanlan, make a deception check.
Travis: Six!
Sam: Okay, good. 17. (laughter)
Taliesin: Holy Jesus.
Matt: Seems legit, and a part of you is disappointed that you can't recall this memory. But even just them speaking of it is almost half of the fun, so.
Travis: That's pretty great. I like all those things you said.
Sam: You were great.
Travis: Did I get any new weapons? I won't be able to pull it out of the bag of holding unless I know what's in there.
Sam: That's true.
Taliesin: I'm going to check my pockets for anything interesting.
Travis: I don't have pockets.
Laura: Percy, your sketchbook.
Taliesin: My sketchbook, yes, what about it?
Laura: You made sketches the entire time.
Taliesin: Oh my god! I did!
Matt: And you look through the pages and there are sketches you don't remember drawing.
Travis: Oh fuck! I mean, oh fuck!
Taliesin: This is so weird.
Marisha: You had a lovely time.
Taliesin: This'll do.
Marisha: We can go back. We'll take a lovely vacation.
Taliesin: No, no, this and liquor will do.
Laura: You used your lightning javelin. You--
Matt: As you guys approach--
Laura: Yes! You have a little statue. You have a little statue, Grog.
Sam: Oh, that's right. A little statue of a dog that might be magical.
Travis: A little statue of a dog.
Sam: An onyx statue of a dog.
Travis: Can I reach into the bag of holding for an onyx statue of a dog?
Matt: Make an intelligence check.
Sam: I've seen it, I can reach in there.
Matt: One of you guys can reach in there and get it if you want to. I just want to see if he can.
Travis: 11.
Matt: Unfortunately, your lack of imagination is finding it difficult based on the words you were given to formulate enough of a solid creative thought.
Laura: It's black. Onyx means black.
Taliesin: Honest statue of a hog. It's an honest statue of a hog.
Sam: Doesn't know what onyx is. He's picturing--
Matt: He barely knows what a dog is at this point.
Travis: If you want to reach in here and reach in my bag. Oh.
Liam: Sam, you can do this to me too.
Matt: And there you have it. The onyx mastiff is there before you.
Laura: It's an onyx mastiff. It's an onyx statuette of mastiff. If you use an action to speak the command word--
Liam: Which we don't know--
Laura: I know. And throw the figurine to a point on the ground within 60 feet of you it becomes a living mastiff for up to six hours.
Liam: I thought the guy told us we'd have to figure it out. Did he whisper anything to you?
Laura: It was etched on the bottom and I totally understand it.
Liam: Oh, you read Elvish?
Laura: I do.
Liam: You're partially elvish.
Laura: It's right there.
Sam: So wait, it's insta-dog?
Laura: It's insta-dog.
Sam: And then what does it do? Can it fight?
Laura: It fights. It has sight and hearing checks. It bites and it claws just like-- oh, no. It just bites.
Sam: And what happens if it gets killed?
Laura: I'm looking, I'm looking.
Travis: It has an intelligence of eight.
Sam: What's your intelligence?
Travis: Six.
Sam: Oh my goodness.
Laura: The creature reverts to its figurine form. It reverts to a figurine early if it drops to zero hit points or if you use an action to speak the command word again while touching it. When the creature becomes a figurine again, its property can't be used again for, ugh, seven days.
Travis: Get to the bottom part, come on.
Laura: Mastiff has an intelligence of eight (laughs) and can speak Common. It's smarter than you.
Sam: Oh, it's a talking dog?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: I wonder if it has a name.
Matt: It can also see invisibility.
Sam: It can see invisibility?
Matt: That's why it's a good guard dog if you--
Laura: And objects within that range.
Sam: I like this dog.
Liam: The only important thing on that paper.
Marisha: And how long does he last? He just lives until he's done?
Taliesin: Six hours.
Laura: Sorry, I didn't mean to read all that and make it not interesting.
Travis: If you set camp though, good sentry.
Sam: But we need to know the magic word.
Laura: We know it. It's good doggie.
Sam: Oh, we know the word already?
Matt: It's part of the enchantment, yeah.
Marisha: Good doggie.
Sam: Can you teach us how to say that in Elvish?
Taliesin: Don't teach him how to say it in Elvish.
Laura: You can say it in Common. He understands Common.
Taliesin: He understands Common, that's fair.
Liam: Vel'ena. Vo'el'ena.
Sam: Vo'el'el'ena?
Laura: Yeah, that's it.
Sam: Vo'el'la'la'la.
Travis: All right, we start walking back to Whitestone.
Laura: Grog, I'm sorry.
Sam: Let's get the dog out here.
Taliesin: Let's hold off on the dog.
Matt: As you guys make your way towards the castle, there's a small group of figures. You see three armored Whitestone soldiers with one figure following them. Different outfit, looks to be simple dark blues and grays. Dark skin, short dark hair, carrying his crossbow at his side. As you make eyes, you immediately recognize this as Jarett.
Marisha: Jarett!
Matt: Jarett is coming down and he sees. "Aye, friends, it has been a while. I'm so happy to see that you survived. It's been a while. Is everyone okay?"
Liam: How long?
Matt: "Aye, most better part of a week."
Marisha: So it is like Saturday here, right? Time runs the same?
Matt: "Yes?"
Marisha: So it wasn't yesterday?
Sam: Why did you taste the wind?
Matt: "I don't know why. It's a strange question." (laughter)
Taliesin: It tastes like Saturday, certainly.
Matt: "More confused by the question, but it's fine. All right."
Laura: How are things here?
Matt: "Well, (sighs) let's just say better for the time being." And as you look up, what you didn't notice before when you saw the clouds is there's this slight light blue hue to the entire sky.
Taliesin: Excellent.
Matt: There's this very faint shimmer to it. And he goes, "Ah, the barrier is now up, which is good. As soon as they finished that, Allura, Drake and Kima all left to find information on the green dragon."
Liam: Where?
Matt: "I did not inquire as to the location, but they said they should be back in the next few days."
Laura: Cassandra might know.
Taliesin: She will.
Marisha: When did they leave?
Matt: "It's three days ago? They were hoping to get insight on Thordak's current situation while we amass as many armored folks here as possible and continue to reach out for allies. I think that is the main goal right now, is to find as many allies as we can. It was interesting to put a stake into this fight."
Laura: So you're leading an army?
Matt: "Well, we're building whoever we can in this vicinity. There's not many. At the very least, defend, in case this ends up falling."
Laura: And what's your role in it?
Matt: Welcome back. Slight little technical issue there. We're going to roll back in. Little bit of information, step into the moment. As Jarett has walked down the steps of Whitestone and began a conversation with Vox Machina about the current situation here, he says how, "Currently, Allura, Kima, and Drake are off trying to find information on the green dragon, Raishan, and trying to discover what best can be done regarding the attack on Thordak in Emon. Here, I am doing the best I can to build what armed forces we have at our disposal, and we're trying to reach out to bring whatever allies are willing to put their stakes into this battle. But yes, this is a monumental task based on my own experience, and I'm doing the best I can. But bear with me, it's--"
Laura: We have faith in you, Jarett.
Matt: "Thank you, I'm glad somebody does. Asum actually just arrived here. About two or three hours ago."
Laura: Yes. We were wondering what happened to him.
Marisha: Haven't seen him in a while.
Matt: "As were we. Last we heard from Gilmore that he disappeared with Tofor within Emon after the attack."
Liam: Shaun's still in the city?
Matt: "Shaun is still in the city. I believe he's actually up meeting with Asum and Cassandra right now in the castle."
Taliesin: Let's clean up and head in that direction, I'd imagine.
Matt: "Certainly. Well, if you need me, I'll be around. Just--"
Marisha: Jarett?
Matt: "Yes?"
Marisha: Has there been any eyes on the green dragon here recently?
Matt: "None of us have seen the dragon. None of us know its whereabouts, and attempts to scry have been balked. I do not know."
Marisha: Okay, thank you.
Matt: "It's all right. I believe there is information on the whereabouts of the white."
Marisha: Do we know where?
Matt: "I do not know. That is more for what they hold at the castle."
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: "Yell loudly if you need me."
Marisha: Thank you.
Matt: "It warms my heart to see you all safe."
Marisha: Same.
Matt: He gives a little salute and a smile, and continues with the other guards back towards the center of the city. As you guys ascend the steps to Castle Whitestone, you enter the large gates that slowly creak open as you come to the familiar interior. You can hear the voices echoing in the distance from the nearby-- what was once the guest dining area of the castle has now been converted into a war room. As you approach the outside of the doors, they're partially ajar; on the inside you can see your sister, Cassandra, sitting at a table. Gilmore is leaned back, arms crossed, tugging on the end of his chin goatee, and you see Seeker Asum currently facing towards Cassandra. They're in mid-conversation right now. As soon as you enter the room: "It is good to know that you all survive, as they've told me."
Marisha: Same to you, Asum.
Matt: As he turns and looks towards you, you can see the side of his face that has all the heavy tattoos now bears heavy acid scars that have blended the tattoos into the scarring. It's not a very pretty sight, but he seems to at least be in one piece right now. He still has his thick, hooded cloak around his shoulders, and where normally he has a shaved head, some of the hair is growing in in areas that can grow hair based on the damage to this side of his face.
Sam: What happened to you?
Matt: "What happened to me is I made out a lot better than many of the people there that day. This-- I'll take this."
Marisha: I'm so sorry.
Matt: "It's fine. I've had worse. Trust me. Come, sit." Cassandra sits up. "My brother." She comes up and gives you a big hug and holds you for a second.
Laura: Pardon our appearance. And stench.
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: Do we smell?
Laura: We're covered in that black messiness, I assume.
Taliesin: I hadn't even noticed, actually.
Matt: You do. And it is. Its scent has faded a bit, but you all still are not in the most presentable means. However, the conversation's dire tone seems to be enough where no one pays much mind to it.
Taliesin: We were successful. I will let the others fill you in with some details, although I do-- and I'm going to double check, and I'm going to find the brief letter explaining what I've set up with Vex, although it will not have any of the reason why, but it will have at least the nature of what's been done. And we have acquired, well, Vex. Vex'ahlia, if you would.
Laura: Another Vestige.
Matt: As you pull it out, they all step back. Gilmore leans forward. "Very good."
Laura: I would love for you to take a look at it, Shaun.
Matt: "I would love to have a look at it." He takes it. As you hand it to him, it actually curls around the back of his hands and whips back into a strong, tensile stance, and he-- "That's weird." He takes it and starts looking over it as Cassandra looks back. "I'm glad you're all safe, and apparently named. Welcome to Whitestone, Lady Vex'ahlia."
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: She takes it, folds it. "I'll have this put in the books immediately."
Taliesin: I appreciate your kind generosity.
Matt: "I will request more information soon."
Taliesin: We'll see, yes. That might be complicated, but yes.
Matt: "Anyway, have a seat. Asum, please, inform them of what you've been telling us." As you all find a seat, he sits there quietly, his eyes darting around in his head, ruminating over the thoughts and trying to formulate his presentation. He crosses his fingers in front of his face. "Things are a bit of a mess within the city. None are allowed to leave. Living under the watch of the wyvern guard, hundreds of lizardmen worshipers of Thordak have been watching the city from above. Some have tried to flee beyond the walls, but ultimately end up being returned at the end of a set of talons and not seen again. Thordak calls a gathering every dusk of the surviving populace. Tens of thousands forced to come and gather at the center of the remnants of the Cloudtop District. He gloats, instills fear in all that behold this, and offers forgiveness to those who offer fealty to him. All are to cheer his name, applaud his statements, and thank him for his mercy. Those that fail to do so are pulled from the crowd by his lizardmen and devoured by the beast himself, lined up to the slaughter as a show. And there is laughter from the beast that pushed them into his maw. Most of the wealth of the city is now amassed in the ashes of the district, forming a massive wall of shiny chunk and coin, like a nest around the fucking beast. He's enslaved a number of the greatest sculptors of the city to begin making his likeness in the surrounding stone. They chisel away at the tall, proud walls of the interior, showing his terrible face where it does not belong. A vain fucker. He's crazy, that one. What's more dangerous than an intelligent dragon than one who's crazy? I've been keeping an eye as best as I can. Thordak gives direct orders to his wyvern guard often, some off to communicate, I presume, with the other members of the Conclave; I know not. I've been stuck within the city. Most survivors stay indoors. I've been working with the Clasp, believe it or not, to shepherd over a thousand people below the city streets for protection. The lesser of two evils, to be sure, but at the very least, at the moment they have nothing to gain by working against us at this juncture. Naught but six hours ago, the Cinder King was roaring in anger, his cries echoing through the streets. The people fell to their knees, thinking this was the end. Stepped up from his volcanic throne, and sent the majority of his army eastward. I used this distraction to slip into the now-unguarded Lyceum, find a port scroll and a sigil for Whitestone before they returned. Came here to see all of you alive, so that's the best news I've had in weeks. That's the best I have to bring you about the current state of the city."
Marisha: That's our home.
Matt: "That's our home."
Taliesin: What is eastward?
Matt: "Kymal. Westruun. Technically, here."
Laura: Did you bring any other survivors with you?
Matt: "I was the only one who could make it into the Lyceum unseen. Tofor is still back there, fighting the good fight. She's working with Shenn. They're trying to get as many below ground as possible, and out of harm's way."
Liam: And Greyskull Keep?
Matt: "I haven't seen it. I've been within the city walls."
Laura: Did you say Thordak's wife? Did I mishear you?
Sam: Wyvern guard.
Marisha: Wyvern. I heard wife.
Laura: Wife and guards is what I heard, and I was so fucking confused.
Matt: Sorry.
Marisha: Wait, his wyvern guard is often...?
Matt: He sent a majority.
Marisha: Oh, that's still me manufacturing shit. Okay.
Taliesin: We don't know where they've been sent. We don't know why.
Sam: Eastward.
Matt: "That's all I've seen."
Taliesin: We need to find out where they're going.
Matt: "I had to use that time to get to the Lyceum. Usually it's too heavily guarded."
Taliesin: No, of course. Just making a list.
Laura: You've done so much.
Matt: "I've done so little. There's more to be done. But the more time that passes, whatever it is they're planning, I'm sure is getting closer to fruition."
Marisha: Do we have any known whereabouts on the white or the green dragon?
Matt: He looks over and Gilmore steps forward, sets the bow down, and says, "First and foremost, this is a glorious piece. I could only hope to eventually create something of its majesty." He hands it over. "A bit creepy in ways, but I think you'll make good use of it. Once we complete the barrier and put quite a bit of concentration each day into maintaining it, of which Pike has been of great aid to me, between the arcane and divine magics, I think we found a fine balance. Hopefully. But anyway, I've been putting the rest of my energies towards trying to procure this information. The green, Raishan, as I believe you've told me, eludes my watch, my gaze. There is a lot of protection around that one. I get the sense that of those in the Conclave, she is probably the most trained in my arts."
Laura: She's the one that released Thordak, so that wouldn't surprise me.
Marisha: She's on my shit list.
Matt: "I think she's on a lot of people's shit lists. Mine as well. The white, however. I know not its name, but I was able to look towards it. I was able to find it sitting amongst a large pile of rock and rubble. Looks like a fallen city, crumbled and destroyed. From what I saw, there were smoldering ruins, toppled landscapes of buildings and temples, arcane crystals crashed and cracked, deep inside a ravine. There, the white dragon perched, setting up this slow-rolling winter amongst a shivering horde of dragonborn."
Travis: Oh, shit.
Marisha: What did he just say? What?
Liam: Shivering horde of dragonborn.
Travis: Amongst a horde of dragonborn.
Laura: Draconia?
Matt: "What remains of it."
Liam: Fuck.
Matt: "That was days ago."
Taliesin: That's a card we no longer have.
Matt: "I need to be careful when doing this."
Liam: The city was razed?
Matt: "From what I could see, yes."
Travis: Did you see any motion? Any slaves?
Matt: "Oh, yes. There were many survivors, but they were not in the best of states."
Travis: This white dragon, does he bring weather, or any sort of change? It's all ice and snow, yeah?
Matt: "The very essence of each ancient wyrm, if you will, carries with it its own element. It slowly transforms the landscape around where it takes up its new den. If it seems to sit atop the remains of the once-proud Draconia, then it now falls under the icy grasp of the beast."
Liam: And the will of the people there?
Matt: "I could not look that deep. My apologies."
Marisha: Is this just with a simple Scrying spell? Okay.
Taliesin: We must be careful. We cannot let Whitestone be discovered.
Marisha: Yes, and as we've learned before, Scrying can alert your position.
Matt: At this point in time, you guys hear heavy footsteps heading up from the lower floor of the castle. You hear two voices shout out, "Lady Cassandra! Lady Cassandra!" They enter the room real fast. You see one man, probably in his mid-20s or so, sweat pouring down his face, his eyes wide. "My lady." At that point you hear, echoing outside of the castle, this loud, piercing, shrieking roar.
Marisha: Oh my god.
Matt: (roar)
Laura: Shit balls motherfucker.
Matt: It's distant, but even at that distance, it is loud.
Laura: Gilmore, does the screen keep us hidden?
Matt: You look back, and even in his most damaged state, Gilmore had an essence of confidence, and this is a moment where you've never really seen him so pale. "We're about to find out, aren't we?"
Travis: I'm going outside.
Laura: I'm going outside, too.
Liam: I walk up to Shaun and slap my hand on his forearm and say, what about the bow? Is there anything you can tell us about the bow?
Matt: "In due time. Keep it at the ready."
Marisha: I turn to Cassandra. We need to get all of the citizens underground, immediately.
Taliesin: We can't fit everybody.
Matt: "We can certainly try." She turns to the guard. "Gather everyone we can. Gather--" And there's another roar from outside, this time louder still. "Go! Now!" Everyone starts rushing down the stairs to the outside of Whitestone Castle.
Marisha: I go out and I do a Skywrite in the sky again.
Laura: Wait! Skywrite?
Marisha: They already know we're here!
Laura: No, they don't! They don't necessarily.
Marisha: Making pictures in the clouds right above the city. It's fine.
Sam: Maybe not.
Laura: I wouldn't Skywrite anything right now, Keyleth. That screen could keep us hidden. He could be searching for us right now.
Marisha: And what about the citizens?
Sam: We'll find another way to alert them. Send out the dog. I don't know.
Matt: Are you guys exiting the castle now?
Laura: Yes.
Marisha: Do it by hand? We might not have that much time.
Matt: As you step out into the front open patio area, just outside of the castle's main gates, you look up and that faint blue shimmer that encases-- and you can now see it as a dome, and it comes down around, just directly around the city, closing at the very outskirts of the castle. You look in the distance as you see a few dark shapes growing larger and larger.
Marisha: They're coming this way!
Taliesin: Hold.
Matt: I need you to make a perception check, all of you.
Marisha: Fuck!
Travis: 17.
Sam: Nine.
Marisha: 26.
Taliesin: 23.
Liam: 26.
Laura: 16.
Matt: All right. Vax, Keyleth, and Percy. You guys glance off and you can see there are a number of shapes. It looks to be probably two, three dozen large winged entities flapping. You can't make out too much of the detail of their form, but you can definitely see some sort of aerial transport with large wings. At the forefront of them, you see one far larger than the rest. While you can't make out the details at this distance, the one thing you do catch is the bits of sunlight that peek through the clouds, hitting the side of its hide. A bright, piercing white color.
Travis: Fucking fucked.
Matt: You see it coasting at an angle around the outside of the city, making its way very quickly towards the outskirts of the town.
Marisha: It's Thordak's army. Asum said himself we're eastward. We're directly in its path.
Taliesin: Hold.
Marisha: Dragons have truesight. They already know we're here.
Sam: Maybe they can't get through this.
Marisha: Any second we wait longer, more people could die!
Laura: Send out the guards.
Matt: The guards are already running down, by the way, based on Cassandra's orders, and are making their way towards the city. You can already see people coming out of the streets and looking up, covering their ears. Some people are falling to their knees and crying.
Marisha: Percy.
Taliesin: Pick them up. Keep running until the moment they can't.
Liam: They know we're here. This is not a coincidence. They're not flying by. They know we're here. They know.
Matt: (whoosh) You now see the dragon and the flying horde have just come within a mile of the southern portion of the city.
Marisha: Percy!
Taliesin: Wait!
Liam: Do it.
Laura: No. Don't do it!
Liam: They're coming for us!
Taliesin: This is my home. Wait.
Travis: This is his home.
Marisha: Percy.
Taliesin: Keep moving.
Marisha: You have five seconds to come up with a better fucking plan, or I am doing it.
Taliesin: Spread out. Keep moving. Find a position.
Matt: Okay. What order are you guys rushing down in?
Liam: What are we looking at from our vantage point?
Matt: You guys are looking down at the wide, 60-foot earth path that leads down from the base of Castle Whitestone into the city itself.
Taliesin: If I'm towards the front, I'm moving everyone towards the house where we made the tunnel that goes underneath the Sun Tree.
Matt: All right, so we have Percy at the front.
Travis: I'll be right behind him.
Matt: Okay, Grog's right behind Percy.
Laura: I'll follow behind Grog.
Liam: We're up above, though? Or are we on ground level at this point?
Matt: You guys are now on ground level. You're above on the grade that leads down into the city itself.
Laura: I pull out the broom and I get on the broom.
Matt: Okay, so you're on the broom.
Marisha: It's clear they're not deviating the path.
Laura: It's not clear. We could just be in their way.
Travis: He said they're curving.
Matt: They're now curving around the outside of the western side of the valley.
Taliesin: What are you going to write? What are you going to write?
Marisha: I would throw up the De Rolo crest, just like before. It's a good alert sign.
Laura: People would just come out screaming. They won't know where to go.
Marisha: Then come up with a better damn plan.
Matt: (roar) Echoing through the valley. You watch as the entire crowd of these entities flies around the west side of the city, curves past. The shadow of the light of the sky, you can see the dark, heavy shadow of the dragon and the wyverns pass over the western side of the city. You can hear distant screams as people begin to freak out at this. It passes over the western side of the city, flying right towards the castle.
Marisha: Percy.
Matt: Arcs past the castle, over the forest, and the entire cluster slowly flaps down and lands at the southernmost beginning peak of the Alabaster Sierras, just north of the city. The dragon (crash noise) lands.
Taliesin: Alert everyone you see.
Marisha: They're scouting us.
Taliesin: Tell them to get underground. Tell them to be silent.
Laura: They don't see us, but they know we're nearby.
Travis: What direction are they looking?
Matt: Right now, they're looking in all directions, actually.
Laura: We need to get everybody underground while we can.
Liam: We have time. We have time.
Taliesin: Thank you. Find everyone. Tell them, silence. We still have the cavern we built underground. Start making it larger.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Shall we scatter? Spread the word?
Laura: Spread the word. Tell everyone to get underground.
Taliesin: Under the tree.
Marisha: I go to the cavern under the Sun Tree and I start casting Move Earth and I start clearing it as fast as I can.
Matt: Okay. It's going to take you a while, but you begin building this cavern.
Marisha: As fast as I can.
Taliesin: More people.
Sam: Where are we telling people to go?
Travis: We're scattering.
Taliesin: There's the inn that was broken. It's got an entrance. They either go there or they go underneath the castle.
Sam: That can hold 30, 40 people?
Taliesin: She's making it bigger.
Laura: Can we send people under the castle as well?
Sam: Okay, under the castle, yeah.
Matt: You guys all begin scattering, grabbing everyone you can. The guards are starting to gather people, and as you get the word out, people begin to quiet, holding their mouths. The guards are holding people silently. People begin ushering en masse up towards this giant exodus from the city, pouring like a funnel up this walkway to the base of Castle Whitestone. Keyleth, as you're down there, you're pressing. The dirt itself is slowly molding its way into this large cavern, pressing downward further and further and opening, further down and opening.
Marisha: Fallout cavern style. Big, lower, bigger, lower.
Matt: You get about three platforms down before the earth stops responding.
Marisha: What do you mean?
Travis: Fucking ziggurat!
Marisha: The fucking ziggurat!
Taliesin: Other way, other way!
Marisha: I go the other way!
Laura: Don't empty out the earth too much, or it won't support the city.
Marisha: Fallout style. Little pods.
Matt: All right. You start creating all these various things, and people start ushering in. It's getting to the point now where there's so many people. You hear crying children, families pressed in, you're feeling claustrophobic and the room's getting hotter and hotter the more bodies that are in there. You keep concentrating and pushing the earth out. You can feel the sweat beads pouring down your face, concentrating, concentrating. You hear the crying and sobbing, and people trying to comfort those that are freaking out. Every now and then you hear a distant echoing cry, a scream of a dragon in the distance, and everyone in the room tenses, and the sobbing gets even louder, then hushed again with whispering silence. You keep pushing and keep pushing, opening. You guys all begin to gather the rest as you watch, with that final cry, the dragon and the wyverns pick up (whoosh) and swoop towards the center of the valley, arcing to the west, and do a wide sweep of the mountain range. (flapping wings)
Laura: Where's Gilmore?
Matt: Gilmore has been bringing people en masse down to the castle. You haven't seen him for a number of-- probably 15, 20 minutes or so. The dragons coast around, and begin to disappear in the southeastern distance where they came from. You do, at this point, catch Gilmore, who has moved to the top of the castle and is currently, arms out, concentrating, pouring all the energy he can into that barrier.
Travis: Looks like the spell worked.
Liam: Good work. Good work.
Laura: Gilmore. Good job.
Matt: He eventually comes down from the top of the castle. He is-- eye sockets are sunken. You can see he's pouring with sweat. "I'm going to need a spa day. Because I'm done."
Laura: Where's Pike?
Matt: You guys find Pike. She, during this whole period, was over by the temple of Pelor that she was helping right and construct. Going over and finding out where she's been placed, you guys see that she's shepherded in a good 200 people into that temple, and has been keeping them divinely protected the whole time. As soon as you approach the outside, the people begin to slowly disperse back into the city. Pike walks out, looking out to the sky and locks eyes with you. "You're back!" Runs up and gives you a big hug. Jumps into your arms at this point. You catch her, and realize how heavy she is with the armor on, put her back down.
Laura: I drop her, because I'm fucking weak.
Matt: "Guys! Hi!"
Laura: You did an amazing job with that.
Matt: "That was mostly him. I've never done something like that before. That was-- everything okay in the Feywild? I'm sorry, I lost my connection. We had to finish this ritual."
Laura: No, it was fine.
Marisha: Hi, Pike. Sorry.
Matt: "Don't be. I'm glad you're all okay."
Sam: Do you remember the Feywild?
Matt: "Yeah. We were--"
Sam: Okay. Just making sure.
Laura: He doesn't remember, Pike.
Matt: "You don't remember?"
Travis: Yeah. Apparently, we went to the Feywild, and everybody remembers it but me and Percy.
Matt: "Why is that?"
Laura: I don't know.
Taliesin: It's funnier that way.
Marisha: Maybe you can look at his head later.
Laura: Maybe there's a way to cure it.
Travis: I'm just too smart.
Matt: She walks up and takes a look at you, walks up to Grog. Has a good look at the side of your head, knocks you in the temple a few times.
Travis: What do you see?
Matt: "There's nothing... physical. I'll try a restoration." She would have, let's see here.
Sam: Pike stats!
Taliesin: I was about to say, you have an Ashley app. That's so adorable.
Travis: Don't make me any dumber.
Laura: Grog, that's not possible.
Matt: Yeah, she's going to try Greater Restoration. Let me check something here real fast.
Sam: That was not fun.
Laura: No.
Marisha: Percy, are you sure it's okay for me to let these people out?
Taliesin: Of course it's not, but yes, definitely let them out. We'll have to make it more secure and safer.
Laura: I think it's gotten quite a bit away from us.
Matt: So Pike reaches up. The gauntlets begin to glow, and as she touches each side of your temples, your eyes close. As some of you watch this, Grog's eyes flash open, and where his pupils and the whites of his eyes were, you now see a flash of divine golden orange light. As it fades, you are slammed with a series of memories that were previously taken from you, and you recall every moment in the Feywild.
Travis: (surprised noises)
Sam: I'm sorry! I'm sorry, you didn't get to kill anything. I'm sorry.
Laura: No, he did! He still killed the big bad guy!
Sam: Oh, you did! You did, you killed the one thing. Okay, good.
Travis: I got petrified!
Laura: Yeah, well, stoned.
Travis: I tried diplomacy! Never again.
Sam: Lesson learned.
Travis: Holy shit.
Laura: Can you only do that one time a day?
Matt: "No, I can do it once more."
Sam: Maybe... well...
Travis: No, it's okay, yeah! Percy will remember the nude massage.
Matt: She walks up to Percy.
Liam: Think of what he's losing, though.
Taliesin: I'm not losing it.
Laura: Potentially.
Taliesin: No, because it doesn't matter. It's there anyway.
Sam: Actually, I don't know. I don't know.
Matt: Yeah, you have overlapping memories. So she reaches up and you bend down. She takes your glasses off. Hands them to Vex. Reaches up and touches the sides of your temple. "Now, concentrate." Close your eyes, and there's a burst of warmth towards the front of your lobe, almost like someone's dipping your head into hot water. And with that, there's a smattering of memories that are rushing into your mind. It takes you a moment. Your head swims, and you have to almost sit down. You almost stumble off your back foot as your brain now has to reorganize those lost moments. Seven days now immediately restored.
Taliesin: Seven days, ten minutes.
Sam: Greater Restoration kills Modify Memory.
Taliesin: Oh! But do I remember having the fake memory? Or do I not remember having a fake memory?
Matt: You would remember the spell being cast. You remember the fake memory, but you're aware that it's fake.
Sam: And that I did it?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: Oh yeah.
Sam: Fuck.
Liam: Just say thank you, Percival.
Matt: "Did it work?"
Taliesin: I give her a big hug. I'm so tired. I'm sorry. I'm going to sit down.
Laura: What?
Matt: "Glasses?"
Laura: Oh, but they're so fun to look through! All right.
Taliesin: They'll give you a headache.
Matt: She takes the glasses, and as you're resting, she takes your hand away from your head and puts them back on.
Marisha: I start slowly releasing people from the pods.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Matt: People begin to emerge, and where once there was this air of tension, fear, and desolate acceptance of the end, there's laughter. There's smiles, and even more tears as people begin to realize they have another day to live.
Laura: Can we tell the people as they come out, I know you'll want to celebrate, but please keep it as quiet as possible tonight. We don't know when it could be back.
Matt: There's a stillness and a slow understanding and nodding. While everyone takes in the information, one young woman, smeared dirt on her chin, dried tears on her cheek, steps forward and goes, "Thank you. Thank you." And everyone else starts saying, "Thank you. Thank you. Thank you." This sea of thank-yous begins to spread through the crowd immediately in your vicinity.
Sam: Don't thank us. Thank Shaun Gilmore.
Laura: Gilmore and Pike. Allura.
Matt: They all quietly go back to their silence and begin to slowly disperse themselves throughout the city where they were before this incursion happened.
Marisha: I go up to Percy.
Travis: I forgot that Shaun was Gilmore's first name.
Laura: He was like, who's Shaun?
Sam: Intelligence of six.
Liam: So fucking method. Method, man.
Matt: Keyleth.
Marisha: I hope you know that I would never--
Taliesin: Shut up. Thank you.
Sam: I hope you know that I was only trying to improve your life with a wonderful happy memory, and it was mostly true.
Taliesin: I know where you sleep. People work for me.
Matt: Asum has caught up to you now as you guys are walking back to the city. You can see him. He's still, eyes to the sky, not truly trusting this quiet. He goes, "It seems we don't have any time to lose. What resources do you have to fight back? What have you learned? Please tell me you have better news than I have."
Travis: Well, we've got a few of these Vestiges, so we're a little powered up. But we're not quite sure what their full abilities are. It's significant, but we think they do more, we're just not sure how much.
Matt: "What more do you need?"
Laura: Can I fly up in the air while this conversation's going on?
Matt: Sure.
Sam: Don't go too high.
Laura: Not too high.
Sam: We don't know where the thing is.
Laura: No, I know, I want to go to the very top where I see the shimmer.
Matt: Yeah and it's a squat shimmer, not a full dome and it's like a very extended type dome.
Laura: Okay. But it's high enough, that I mean it's higher than the castle.
Matt: It's high enough where you can get about 80 feet up and you start to see enough detail in the shimmer where you're like, "Okay, I'm getting close."
Laura: Okay. The direction that the dragons went. Is this stupid? Can I shoot my Oracle Arrow in that direction?
Sam: No. Absolutely not.
Laura: Why?
Sam: (high-pitched) Why would you bring attention to us?!
Laura: It's an arrow!
Liam: They're long gone.
Matt: They are gone. The time has passed. They're miles and miles and miles and miles and miles at the speed they were travelling. You're a good shot, but I don't know if you could arc an arrow that far.
Laura: Oh well, I guess that's true. I thought it was a ten-minute, because it's Fenthras I thought it was a long-ass arrow.
Travis: Can't you tell what direction the dragons were heading?
Laura: Oh! Wait, okay, so the Oracle Arrow, is it like you fire it, and then it shoots somewhere and it sticks there and I can see through it for ten minutes?
Matt: Correct. Or see through it as it's fired, the minute it leaves the bow you can project your sight through the arrow for up to 10 minutes.
Sam: It can't fly for infinity?
Matt: No. It still arcs like a regular arrow.
Laura: That makes sense. I foresaw it just going, because I thought it was like a special kind of arrow.
Liam: It's really good for people without flying brooms.
Laura: Right. Cool. Then I'm not going to use it. Because now I understand how it works. I've learned something.
Taliesin: What direction were the wyverns travelling, were they travelling back? Or were they travelling along--
Matt: They were heading southeast.
Travis: So not back, they came from the west, right?
Matt: They swooped in from the west, from that side.
Taliesin: But they originated in the west, and they are currently travelling southeast?
Matt: Correct. However, it was Vorugal, it was the white dragon, which from what Gilmore is saying has been roosting over at the top of the ruins of Draconia.
Taliesin: Which is to the east.
Sam: So this was not the group that had set off from Emon.
Travis: To the west.
Taliesin: No it's-- Draconia is to the southeast. Why do I know that?
Sam: Here, here's the map. We're up here. This is the group that was coming from Emon. These guys came from somewhere over here? Where's Draconia?
Laura: Can I cast Primeval Awareness and see if it's within six miles of us right now, still? Or if it's farther away from that.
Marisha: I thought that Draconia's on a whole another continent.
Taliesin: Yeah, it is. It's over here.
Matt: It's over on Wildemount.
Laura: I want to see if they're just camping out around us or if they're going away.
Taliesin: Are they going back?
Matt: Using for dragons, I assume, right?
Laura: Yes. It's my favored enemy.
Matt: Yeah. I would say as part of your Primeval Awareness--
Sam: If this is the United States, we're in Maine. Emon is LA.
Matt: Yeah. Sensing at this point, with the day of travel and everything, you have no sense of dragons in that direction or anything.
Laura: Okay. They're further than six miles away.
Matt: Yeah, there are minor essences in the northern area, but nothing beyond what you've already sensed in the Alabaster Sierras. Nothing on the level of strength that the draw of an ancient dragon would bring on your radar.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: To answer your previous question, there are four Vestiges left.
Taliesin: That we know of.
Liam: There's a dagger, there's a cloak. Armor. There's a staff.
Sam: Wait, there's other objects that we haven't--
Matt: "All right."
Marisha: Four left. Because we have Whisper, right?
Laura: No, no, we don't have Whisper.
Marisha: So there's five.
Matt: "Do we have any other allies, friends, people who are sworn to aid us and--?"
Travis: Ooh! Yeah, yeah! Your parents.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: That's right.
Laura: Technically, the elves of Syngorn are building an army. However, who knows if they'll actually come through.
Taliesin: The werewolves could be called upon.
Matt: "I think they would understand it would do them well to help what is a threat to all of us."
Taliesin: You would think.
Sam: One werewolf has vowed allegiance to us.
Laura: In the Feywild.
Travis: In another plane of existence, which I don't know if that's a problem.
Matt: "Not going to count on that one."
Taliesin: It's not as ridiculous as you think.
Sam: Yes. Your former pals.
Taliesin: Whatever remnants of Draconia perhaps?
Matt: "Wait. So the last time we saw the main portion, the bulk of Emon's army from Fort Daxio was sent to Syngorn before this attack happened?"
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: "Do we have any knowledge on their whereabouts?"
Marisha: A lot are there.
Matt: "They're there?"
Marisha: A lot of-- at least all of our guards from Emon are in Syngorn, right?
Laura: No. Our guards aren't in Syngorn.
Marisha: Not our personal guards, but Emon's guards.
Laura: No.
Matt: You did see quite a few soldiers from Emon there.
Laura: Oh we did?
Sam: Yes.
Laura: I was distracted.
Matt: That's okay. You did have a lot to think about with your dad.
Taliesin: They would not answer our call but if someone has relations with the Clasp, they are always an option for manpower.
Matt: "Well, I have been dealing with them and definitely-- they're not much of an army, but they're definitely good at acquiring information and I currently have a few of them trying to find out as much as they can about Thordak."
Marisha: There's also the Ashari druids, who will definitely want to help our cause.
Taliesin: This is very true.
Matt: "That is good to know. Well, any more that come your way or any possibilities you have to bring more to our cause, please, do so."
Sam: There's a candle-maker who might help out. I would put him in the strong maybe category as well.
Taliesin: Don't mention that Vex flies.
Matt: "Good, well keep tabs on those you've found and any possibilities of others, especially those who have... I don't know, more of these Vestiges that you speak of, or armies at their disposal. Big weapons, anything. I'll take anything at this point really."
Taliesin: There are options but we need to discuss what happened today. This changes some things.
Travis: Yeah, we need more offence, less defense. I don't know if that will work a second time.
Taliesin: You're mad. We need defense. This is not a site of a victory, this is a site of our end. We need bunkers.
Laura: Yeah. We need to move everybody underground the same way we did in Emon.
Marisha: I can spend more time fleshing out and reinforcing the bunkers to make them--
Taliesin: I'll discuss a warning system to get people underground.
Sam: But when the dragon came here just now, they saw nothing, correct?
Taliesin: We hope.
Sam: Is there a way that we can spread false rumors that the city of Whitestone has been magically moved to another plane or something?
Laura: That's wonderful. That's smart.
Sam: Some way of getting that word to Draconia or I don't--
Taliesin: Putting the word out that we're other places than we are. Putting the sound--
Matt: Asum thinks to himself and goes--
Liam: Can't we drop it into the Clasp's pipeline?
Matt: "I can do that. Definitely. We can find a way to get that information. There are a number who have sworn allegiance to Thordak and, you know. Some folks who don't see honor but the necessity to stay alive override any sort of previous friendships."
Travis: Best not to mention our name. I don't think we're cool with the Clasp after our last meeting.
Laura: Yeah, they don't like us.
Matt: "Good to know. I'll look about planting that information. I'll do the best I can in that regard. I've been told that you've already felled another of the Conclave, is that correct?"
Travis: Yes.
Laura: That's true. Umbrasyl. Dead and gone.
Matt: "That will certainly stir some attention from them."
Laura: Yeah, and if not that, then the message left in there.
Taliesin: They know we did it.
Travis: Strange that he had all those wyverns with him, though. Umbrasyl had none. He was by himself.
Liam: They don't like each other, though, this is some sort of loose partnership.
Travis: Yeah, but didn't they say the white one was more savage. More emotional?
Laura: The white one was more vain.
Marisha: Yeah, the black one, Umbrasyl is the one that's--
Sam: Oh you're right, the white one is a hunter, it's primal. Hates others. You're right.
Taliesin: Maybe the army's going to head to-- no, we could be so lucky if it was on its way to attack it.
Marisha: Black ones like torture, right?
Laura: Yeah, they like to make people suffer.
Taliesin: I feel like there should be trading cards.
Sam: So the white one's like Predator?
Laura: Shut up! There's notes somewhere in here!
Matt: "Just be warned  fell one dragon, that might make them nervous. Fell another and that's almost certain to bring retaliation."
Taliesin: We were hoping to distract them.
Matt: "Well, the next wyrm you decide to fell will probably be the start of this war."
Travis: Can we ask, why would it bring retaliation? How would they know it was us?
Taliesin: We did sign the card.
Marisha: We left our names.
Laura: Maybe the next one we can sign as somebody else.
Travis: What if we don't sign it?
Liam: Even if we don't, they probably are going to get much more vindictive overall.
Marisha: And just as much as we can scry on them, they can scry on us. I'm sure they've been watching us.
Taliesin: I don't think they know where we are. I think they know when we travel, I just don't think they know where we are.
Matt: "Have any of the living ones seen you?"
Laura: Have any what?
Matt: "Have any of the living ones seen you and know you for who you are?"
Travis: When we killed the first one, there were a bunch of jewels in the wall and we saw a bunch of eyeballs.
Taliesin: He did not know our name, but he has seen us.
Laura: Raishan saw us, the white one saw us, all of them saw us.
Matt: "Then it is very possible."
Sam: Wait a second, you just said no one knew we were here, none of them knew we were here.
Taliesin: Here.
Sam: They just attacked here. And we just got back here.
Laura: Gilmore was scrying on them. It took three days for him to get here. That's how he knew.
Sam: Because Gilmore was scrying on them. Got it. Not because we have a leak.
Taliesin: We probably do. We should assume we have a leak.
Sam: I'm going to blame Shaun.
Taliesin: Is he Shaun now?
Matt: "You're more than welcome to."
Sam: Sorry! (chuckles)
Matt: He's sitting down, wiping his brow with this really fine scarf.
Marisha: Judging based on what happened in Emon, we know that they have an insider, we just don't know who yet.
Sam: They do? We know this?
Taliesin: I would assume that there's nothing we say that they don't know at this point.
Laura: They struck during a political--
Marisha: During a council meeting.
Laura: Somebody has to be telling them things.
Marisha: Someone probably very high up.
Laura: It could be Raishan taking the form of a human again, for all we know.
Sam: Who was there and lived? Besides us?
Matt: Jarett catches up, by the way. (panting) "Is everyone all right?"
Laura: Yes. How are the citizens? Did you get everyone in there?
Matt: "Everyone seems to be safe and accounted for. There was a lot of fear, of course, but elation, whatever you did." And he looks at you and looks at Shaun. "Whatever you did, keep doing it, please."
Travis: I insight check Jarett.
Matt: Make an insight check.
Travis: Seven.
Matt: It's hard to read that fella. Slippery.
Liam: Can I do an insight check on Asum?
Matt: You may.
Laura: What are you doing?
Sam: Ooh, that was a Luck.
Liam: First one was good anyway.
Laura: Oh, you're just hoping? First one was really good.
Liam: Damn. I can choose whichever one I want. 21.
Matt: 21.
Laura: About Jarett?! You're insighting Jarett?
Sam: Seeker Asum.
Taliesin: Perhaps we should not have... assumed.
Marisha: Hey, Travis! How is it you're on this side of the table?
Travis: Well I was looking for a Loot Crate. Have you guys seen any Loot Crates?
Sam: Oh! Well I've got some of the great swag that you can get in a Loot Crate. Why this shirt came in one last week.
Travis: That's incredible! How do I get one of those?
Sam: You go to LootCrate.com/CriticalRole to see your selection and then if you sign up, you get three dollars off the first month, which is a really good deal!
Taliesin: Ironically when we played the game at home this is exactly what we'd do.
Matt: Totally.
Liam: Sam who are you talking to? You're facing a potted plant.
Sam: I'm talking to Seeker Asum! He's a big fanboy.
Matt: Gilmore stands up and catches the edge of Vax's shoulder.
Liam: Hey.
Matt: "All right, so, what's your plan? What's the next order of business?"
Laura: Get you a drink, I think.
Matt: "A drink would be great."
Taliesin: I think we talk and drink.
Laura: Yes. We need to talk about barricading underground. Making it more secure.
Matt: "Come. I can definitely use that right now." You guys are led into the nearest open-- it looks to be an unused tavern, but there are drinks, ale and things that are at the ready. There isn't much commerce currently happening in the city, since right now everything's in survival mode, so there's no exchange of money, you guys are presented with drinks. The lanterns are lit on the inside from other villagers that are just happy to help. And the central table is set where you all sit around and quietly have a few sips.
Liam: While everyone's sitting, can I just pull him over to a corner for a second?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: How are you doing, personally?
Matt: "Me?"
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: "Wondrous! I'm doing great! (chuckles) I'm exhausted."
Liam: Shaun, I--
Matt: "I'll be fine."
Liam: You sure?
Matt: "Yes, I'm fine."
Liam: All right.
Matt: "It's been a long time since I put my energy and talents towards anything beyond making shiny things. Feels nice to be helping others."
Liam: Well, I feel we're seeing your true talents.
Matt: "I'm at my wits' end with these. Do you want to see true talents? You should ask Allura to show you what she's capable of when she gets back."
Liam: She is pretty nifty.
Matt: (sighs heavily)
Liam: Well, come on, come and have a drink.
Matt: And he like leans on you a bit and you both make it back to the table. The rest of you--
Sam: This booze is okay, but Grog, I could really use the finest wine I've ever had.
Travis: Oh shit, hold on.
Laura: We've got some fancy-ass bottles.
Travis: I reach into the bag of holding and I grab five expensive-ass bottles of wine.
Liam: Holla!
Marisha: Scanlan and I will share one.
Sam: Good idea.
Laura: Just one bottle between the two of you?
Sam: We don't weigh very much.
Marisha: No.
Taliesin: I'm involved in this. This is exciting.
Matt: You guys scatter the wine amongst your glasses. Drinks are had as you begin to discuss the plan.
Taliesin: Pour one for the landlord as well. He's letting us drink our wine in his room.
Matt: Asum leans in. "All right. So. Vestiges. Defenses. Allies, what's the next plan? What's the next--"
Travis: Well, I've a question. If I were to call somewhere a City of Brass, where would you think that would be?
Matt: Asum goes, "There are cities that use brass in parts of construction in Wildemount, that's as far--" Gilmore leans forward and goes, "No, that's in the Elemental Plane of Fire. That's a dangerous, terrible place that you should never go."
Travis: We were already there once, actually.
Taliesin: Terrible dangerous places you should never go are practically our middle name.
Laura: We saw Thordak there, actually.
Matt: "Oh! Even more of a reason not to go!"
Marisha: Well, he's here now, so Fire Plane's probably safer!
Taliesin: She's got a very fair point.
Laura: Why do you ask, Grog?
Travis: Well, look, the Plate of the Dawnmartyr is in a City of Brass, but I don't know where that is.
Laura: I bet that sounds something Pike would like.
Travis: Draconia is in Wildemount?
Matt: "Draconia is in Wildemount, yes."
Travis: Right. And so is the big white fuck, right?
Taliesin: Yes. Are any of the Vestiges in Wildemount?
Travis: The City of Brass?
Matt: "Whereabouts are the Vestiges?"
Liam: One at the bottom of the sea.
Laura: One is in Marquet?
Marisha: The City of Brass is in the Plane of Fire. We've covered that.
Sam: It's not in Draconia? It's in the Plane of Fire?
Marisha: The city is in the Plane of Fire.
Sam: Correct. Where's Ank'Harel?
Marisha: Ank'Harel is on the continent of-- what's it's called?
Matt: Gilmore chuckles to himself, "Ank'Harel. It's been awhile." And looks at--
Marisha: What's the continent? I suddenly blanked on it. You just said it.
Matt: Marquet.
Marisha: Marquet. It's on the continent of Marquet.
Matt: Ank'Harel is also where Jarett is from, which is where you first heard. Gilmore smiles. "It's where I grew up, or nearabouts, at least."
Sam: Where you grew up, Gilmore?
Matt: "Well, not in the city, a little ways out a bit."
Sam: You're Marquatian?
Matt: "Originally, yes, but I've been living here most of my life. Soon as I had the opportunity to leave-- It's a free plane here in Tal'Dorei and all the shops I can muster... until they all got destroyed."
Laura: Good times.
Matt: "It's fine. I'd made the bottom floors too small anyway. More space. Next time."
Liam: You ever want to revisit home?
Matt: "Maybe. Nah. I need to stay here and maintain this."
Laura: Yes you do. If you don't mind.
Sam: What about the endless maze of the Abyss? That's another place that we're supposed to go.
Marisha: Also another plane of existence.
Matt: "I don't know much about the Abyss, but I know that it's probably the worst place ever."
Laura: Abyssal. That's where demons come from.
Travis: Worse than the Fire Plane?
Matt: "That's correct."
Laura: That's the thing that killed Pike.
Travis: Wait, isn't that where the rakshasa's going to be?
Marisha: That's in the Nine Hells.
Liam: He's a devil.
Taliesin: Ironically is somewhere else entirely.
Liam: And I think we can table Meowmix for a little bit. Somebody told us it takes a while.
Laura: Months and months.
Marisha: Months but we also don't want to wait until--
Liam: Not forever.
Travis: Who's got a map?
Sam: I've got a map.
Travis: Where's the Ozmit Sea?
Taliesin: Before we even think of this, we should see what we're-- I don't think we're going to collect all of the Vestiges. We should see what other Vestiges we think are going to be helpful.
Sam: It's like the Pacific Ocean.
Travis: Which direction is it? Towards Draconia?
Sam: No. Draconia's across the Atlantic Ocean in France.
Marisha: But the Ozmit Sea is where the Water Ashari reside. And I have to go there anyway. It's also where Pike is very familiar. I'm pretty sure that's the sea that she sailed?
Liam: And the Vestige there is the staff?
Laura: Whisper, right?
Sam: Whisper, the blade.
Marisha: Whisper, the blade.
Travis: Well, look, hey, so I have an idea, right. Someone mentioned that the white dragon is very vain and very savage. He's got like all those wyverns around him. That's a little bit of a bitch for us. We're usually good one dragon on all of us. You got a whole gang, worse for us. So what about if we played to his vanity, and maybe sent him knocking on one of his Conclave brother's doors. Maybe start a little beef that maybe's not there.
Sam: How do we do that?
Travis: I don't know, the idea just popped up. I'm looking for your help and shit.
Liam: He's a big picture man. Here's the detail fellow.
Travis: You know how tired I am right now?
Laura: We're so tired.
Taliesin: I think that we've been thinking about this the wrong way. I think that we've been treating this as a battle. And we have to start treating this like a war, which is a very different creature.
Sam: Are we guerrillas?
Taliesin: We are absolutely not.
Liam: Beret.
Travis: Wolverines!
Taliesin: We need to reinforce this city not as a final stand, but as a place where there might be survivors. Because if they come here, there's no battle to be fought. It's just a loss.
Laura: We need to take it--
Marisha: Elsewhere.
Matt: At this point Jarett steps out from back of the room and says, "The more time that goes by, the more chance there is that the battle, the war, will be fought here. On our turf. The faster we move, the better chance we have of bringing it to theirs, so let us not dilly-dally."
Marisha: You mentioned about having our own mole at one point. Our own inside man.
Travis: Yeah. Scanlan.
Sam: I'm not going to volunteer myself as a slave to the dragon.
Travis: Keep thinking about it.
Liam: You are a sexy dinosaur.
Sam: I'm considering it.
Travis: You'll be the Hercules Mulligan of Vox Machina.
All: Hercules Mulligan!
Taliesin: I would like to talk to some of the magic users about installing some sort of-- or perhaps helping me install a non-magical dragon raid signal so that the population knows to be quiet, and knows to quietly go underground. In the event of the next fly-by.
Matt: They all look at each other and Gilmore nods. "That's actually, I wouldn't say rudimentary, but it's definitely within my skill set."
Taliesin: Would triggering it possibly alert them to our existence? Does it make holding up the shield--
Matt: "Not if I can maintain it underneath the barrier."
Sam: Does the barrier block sound and visuals?
Matt: "It should."
Sam: And is there any way that we can help you make this barrier more permanent and stronger?
Matt: "I don't know. This was crafted for this reason. This isn't a long standing existing incantation. This was crafted through the minds of Drake Thunderbrand and Allura and myself and Pike's aid. This is a new magic, it's experimental, and to be perfectly honest, I'm very glad it succeeded because I was--"
Laura: Just guessing?
Matt: "Essentially."
Liam: Also, Gilmore, as a sidebar, what about that black ball beneath the city? Has anything been learned of it?
Matt: "We've been a bit distracted."
Liam: That's what I thought.
Taliesin: I would like to put it to use.
Laura: Wait, what?
Taliesin: We're at war.
Laura: We can't move it.
Taliesin: We're not going to move it.
Sam: We're going inside it.
Taliesin: I want to put the private council table in the room with it.
Sam: In the room where it happens?
Laura: So they can't scry into the room, it cancels all magic.
Taliesin: So no glamor will survive, no magic will survive, no trick can be allowed.
Matt: "I love your mind, Percy. Have I told you that? I love your mind. I love it."
Taliesin: That's probably a bad sign, but thank you.
Matt: "We'll do that immediately. It sounds like a grand plan." Asum says, "Not a worry. We'll do that immediately."
Sam: We'll just have to Seeker Asum that it happened? (laughter)
Taliesin: We should move quickly. We should pick a couple of Vestiges and move quickly, collect them. Start finding more allies, move quickly. But we should not dally too long.
Marisha: And I agree, we might not be able to wait to get them all before we start taking on dragons. We might want to do both.
Matt: Jarett says, "If you're looking to go to the Ozmit Sea, you'll probably need a ship of some kind. It's quite a far travel and that distance as well and the docks on the west coast right now are, well they're locked down at Emon."
Taliesin: Could Cabal's Ruin--
Laura: How long is the travel to Marquet?
Matt: "Travel by boat, across the Ozmit, maybe about a week, a week and a half. Skyship, maybe half as long."
Sam: Airship. Airship. Airship?!
Matt: Gilmore actually steps in and is like, "Technically, I have a teleportation sigil outside the city. I could probably just get you there."
Sam: Wait, to go to where? Marquet?
Liam: Walking is really good for the health though.
Marisha: And first level characters, which we are not.
Sam: Hold on. Before we decide that Marquet is the thing.
Taliesin: It's Cabal's Ruin, correct? We're going to search for Cabal's Ruin.
Travis: Are we at all just forgetting the fact that Draconia is lying in ruins?
Taliesin: We don't have time.
Laura: No, it's not about time. The dragon is sitting on top of Draconia.
Sam: So we know where to find him to kill him.
Laura: Unless we know how to take on that dragon, we can't save anyone.
Sam: wE've killed dragons before.
Taliesin: I will feel better with one or two more Vestiges in our pocket.
Liam: By the skin of our teeth, Scanlan. By the skin of its gut.
Taliesin: We got lucky.
Sam: I like Grog's idea. Is there a way to explore that any further?
Marisha: Pitting the dragons against each other?
Sam: Yes!
Taliesin: I think it's a great idea worth exploring.
Liam: Seeker Asum is on it. He said that he was going to--
Sam: Seeker Asum is great, but we're the best in the business. I wouldn't leave our plan A to someone not us.
Laura: Seeker Asum is telling people that this city has been magicked away.
Matt: Asum is also still at the table.
Marisha: Yeah, he's right there.
Taliesin: We're drunk, we will talk about you in third person as much as we want.
Laura: We're just reiterating the things that you told us you were going to say.
Matt: "That's all right."
Taliesin: We figured you would speak up if you had issue.
Laura: Plus it's really fun to say your name.
Matt: "Never heard it before, I assure you."
Travis: How far away is Draconia from here? Travel wise?
Matt: "Well, my usual travel to Wildemount is across the northern channel here. I'd say you're looking at about two weeks of travel by ship across the Lucidian Ocean."
Marisha: Or we can always teleport. I can Tree Stride. I can always Tree Stride.
Sam: Have you been to Draconia?
Marisha: I can scry and look at a tree.
Matt: Tree Stride is a short distance. You mean Transport via Plants.
Marisha: Whatever. They all sound the same. I can scry, look at a tree, and then we go through that tree.
Sam: If there's any trees left.
Laura: There's definitely at least--
Marisha: I'm hoping there's a tree on that continent.
Liam: Are we talking though about how scrying is a little dangerous right now?
Marisha: When you're scrying on dragon.
Laura: When you're scrying on a tree.
Marisha: Yeah, the tree doesn't know it's being spied on.
Travis: Doesn't Draconia have an army there? If there are any survivors, anyone we can bring back to Whitestone, shouldn't we be accumulating those people?
Taliesin: I think if there's a dragon sitting on top of them, removing people from him is--
Travis: We're sneaky, we're so sneaky!
Laura: Are we sneaky?
Travis: Yeah! Pike's not even here.
Laura: You have your memories of the Feywild, do you remember sloshing around in that black sludge? Very loudly?
Marisha: Do you remember us walking into the town center to kill Kevdak? That wasn't sneaky.
Travis: No, no that was personal.
Taliesin: Grog, I think you're thinking of a battle we can win, as opposed to a war we're losing.
Travis: Yeah, no, look I'm not trying to pick a fight with a dragon, I'm just going to make sure that dragonborn are there and we can help them.
Taliesin: We can help them by killing the dragon.
Liam: Yes.
Travis: Wow.
Taliesin: Vax is agreeing with me.
Matt: "Actually that's pretty sound. If you manage to defeat the dragon there, you'll probably gather the survivors and have them join the cause against Emon. If you have means of transporting them. Remember, once a dragon is down, it's--"
Laura: It's on.
Matt: "It's on."
Sam: Grog is the best thinker.
Marisha: Yeah. We pull the trigger on one, we pull the trigger on all of them.
Laura: I can't believe if we fight one that means we have to fight--
Travis: Well, listen. Again, I'm not trying to kill the white dragon.
Taliesin: What is the white dragon going to do--
Travis: I want him to go pick a fight with the other dragons.
Laura: How are we going to do that, though?
Liam: We're working on that as a side venture. What are we going to do there to make that happen?
Marisha: We can't really stroll up to it and be like--
Travis: You guys don't know how to pick a fight? You honestly can't brainstorm one way to pick a fight?
Marisha: We are very good at picking fights. It's getting the dragons to pick fights on others.
Sam: We can probably plan a ruse.
Laura: Oh, and how would you do it, Grog?
Travis: I would talk mad shit to the white dragon on behalf of the green dragon. I would rep the green dragon.
Laura: Oh my god, Grog, he will never see through that! That's brilliant.
Liam: You are really strong. That's the end of it, I have nothing else to say.
Travis: I'm just saying, I feel like an opportunity's being wasted here.
Taliesin: I think an opportunity's being tabled briefly.
Marisha: We've got to think about it.
Taliesin: I don't think this is nearly as time sensitive.
Travis: Fine. Someone else do the thinking.
Marisha: Breeding hostility between the two is something that could take weeks, which we don't have.
Taliesin: Well, we could start it. It's also something other people can do while we do other things.
Liam: Yes. Delegate.
Marisha: But how? It literally involves going to one dragon and saying: Hey, did you hear what that other dragon said about you? That's all I got.
Taliesin: Well, there are other ways to do it. In traditional warfare, you can do things like cause damage to the property of one dragon and leave scant evidence that the other dragon, or one of the dragon's people, was somehow responsible. Have a raiding, somehow get wyverns to raid near--
Marisha: Wait, hang on. That first thing you said.
Taliesin: Yes. It's the easiest level.
Marisha: I think I might have an idea. Okay, we know the white dragon is vain.
Laura: Right? We know that?
Matt: All dragons to an extent are vain. It's part of the nature of the chromatics.
Sam: White dragon loves the thrill of the hunt.
Matt: The white dragon is the most comparably primal. They're all in various stages of hyperintelligence. The white dragon is the one that's the most... beastlike.
Taliesin: If the white dragon is a hunter, the easiest way to incite damage is to sneak into the city and start mauling and killing Draconians that are left over, and just leaving bodies everywhere that he wasn't responsible for.
Marisha: What?!
Taliesin: That is the sort of decisions we're going to start having to make.
Laura: What if somebody can Polymorph into a little green dragon or something?
Marisha: Yeah, you went to 11 there on let's start continuing the genocide.
Laura: Fuck shit up as a dragon and leave evidence behind as a green dragon.
Sam: I've seen the green dragon. Raishan?
Matt: You have seen the dragon.
Sam: How big?
Matt: Gargantuan. And you cannot Polymorph into dragons. You can only transform into beasts.
Sam: I understand.
Matt: Fairly large, yeah. I'd say probably-- Raishan is the smallest of the dragons you saw, but even at the smallest of them, is still a good 30 feet to the shoulder.
Sam: I could do that.
Liam: Gather all the papier-mâché you have in the city.
Sam: I could do something pretty close to that.
Travis: I bet you could do a lot of incredible things.
Sam: Are you Tony Robbins? (laughter)
Taliesin: I think this is a conversation that can continue through Marquet. I don't think we're going to come up with the best idea tonight.
Marisha: But we need to get something started. Here's what we learned.
Sam: At dawn.
Marisha: At dawn we drink some more. We learned that Thordak is enslaving sculptors to build his image all around Emon. What we have learned is it seems that each of the dragons have picked a city, a domain. Maybe this domain was part of the bargain to join Thordak's cause. Help me, you get your own city.
Taliesin: A reasonable and astute observation, yes.
Marisha: So I bet the white dragon would be real pissed off if statues of Thordak started popping up around Draconia.
Laura: Or the green dragon.
Marisha: Or the green dragon.
Travis: Or maybe even statues where Umbrasyl's nest was.
Taliesin: Let's pick a dragon.
Laura: Vorugal is the white dragon?
Sam: Raishan is the green. Here's the problem with goading Vorugal the white to find and kill Raishan the green. No one knows where Raishan the green is, including Vorugal.
Laura: How do you know Vorugal doesn't know?
Sam: Because Raishan's the shapeshifter, and no one knows where she is, including Gilmore, who's been scrying for a week to try to find her.
Laura: Yeah, but the white dragon might have some way to communicate.
Travis: Do we know how they communicate?
Liam: Yes, we do. There were some baubles in a wall in Krieg's secret cave.
Laura: They have other balls, right?
Travis: Gilmore, Asum, do either of you have a theory on how they communicate?
Matt: Gilmore looks to Asum. "I have not been to any of their bases. Asum, you've been watching Thordak." He looks back. "Within his domain in the Cloudtop, he has... apparently an overhead airplane."
Laura: It's very loud.
Matt: Trust me, it was strange. "He has a number of various spies that are sworn to him that act as his network of information to and from the Cloudtop and his throne of black glass and molten rock. He does have singular pillars placed around that contain four orbs that he would speak into on occasion."
Marisha: And didn't we see something similar in Umbrasyl's and when we killed the blue?
Laura: We saw orbs in Umbrasyl's?
Marisha: Yeah, remember, it cracked and it was like, I'm coming for you! And we were like, we don't know what that means! And we ignored it.
Laura: That was in Brimscythe's.
Liam: Did we see that in the black?
Travis: They were broken already.
Matt: Yeah. They were already shattered.
Laura: He shattered them. Fuck.
Sam: Why did he shatter them?
Laura: So that we wouldn't be able to scry on anyone else. Or he was pissed!
Sam: He was pissed at the other dragons, maybe.
Liam: But it's not safe to assume-- Asum, sorry-- that they're not in communication. We have to assume that they are. I'm so sorry.
Matt: "It's all right. It's not like my childhood friend Purvon." (laughter)
Taliesin: There is a thought. This is a very good idea. You've got a very good idea.
Sam: What's the idea?
Marisha: I said we start planting statues of Thordak or Raishan in other dragons' territories. Ultimately, though, what we need is we need someone who knows the dragons' weaknesses. We need to know what pushes their buttons.
Sam: We know what pushes their buttons.
Taliesin: We need to know what pushes the reset button. Why am I speaking in video game metaphor?
Liam: What?
Taliesin: Nothing. Drink.
Sam: We can throw up some statues and cause some havoc, but if they have these orbs that communicate with each other, then the white can call Thordak and say: Hey, what's up with these statues? And Thordak can say: No, it's not me.
Taliesin: Not statues. Idols. Small images of the white dragon for worship.
Liam: You're gambling on jealousy.
Taliesin: Start hiding them in places. If we start seeding them, especially in Emon, as if he is trying to get people to worship him in other cities as well, silently, quietly underneath--
Sam: We'll make t-shirts that say Team Vorugal.
Taliesin: We just have to make sure that we don't use the stone from here.
Marisha: Well, because we know that Thordak is definitely vain.
Taliesin: And this will piss him off. And if he says what are you doing, I don't know anything about this.
Laura: Yeah, he would deny it. Of course he would deny it.
Marisha: And we're assuming-- sorry-- that they'll ask instead of jumping to conclusions.
Taliesin: I like it.
Laura: Even if he jumps to conclusions, he would be pissed.
Sam: But we know that Thordak is a total asshole-- Sorry. (laughter)
Sam: So we know he'll be pissed off, more or less.
Matt: His scarred eye twitches for a moment.
Marisha: And we wonder why people hate us.
Matt: Asum leans into the conversation and goes, "We have many crafters and artisans that are within the grasp of the Clasp as well, within Emon. We can begin to have these made and scattered throughout the various offerings brought to the center of the city."
Taliesin: Little shrines, hidden in ruins.
Matt: "I like this."
Marisha: Hashtag Team Vorugal.
Matt: "We can make this happen." You can make that happen. Hashtag Team Vorugal.
Taliesin: I still will admit that Cabal's Ruin is one of the Vestiges I feel would be-- and not just because I would like to use it.
Marisha: Is Ank'harel and the Ozmit Sea in the same area? Can we hit one on our way to the other?
Matt: The Ozmit Sea is in between Tal'Dorei and-- from your perspective, it's Tal'Dorei and Marquet, and the Ozmit Sea is what's in between.
Taliesin: So we could do a triple.
Marisha: We could do a triple. Because I have to get to the Water Ashari at some point.
Taliesin: And that's very important, because we need them on our side.
Sam: Between what and what?
Taliesin: Ozmit Sea, so it's over here.
Sam: It's between what and who?
Matt: The Ozmit Sea is between Marquet and Tal'Dorei.
Sam: Is this Tal'Dorei?
Marisha: We're on Tal'Dorei.
Sam: So Marquet is Japan.
Matt: More Australia.
Sam: Got it. Is this world round? Can we go the other way?
Taliesin: Actually, this world is shaped like a d20, so we're on the flat part at the five.
Sam: Can't go the other way?
Matt: You could eventually get there. It is round.
Laura: Would I know how fast dragons can actually fly? If it's a two-week trip to get to Draconia from where we are--
Matt: Two weeks via ship. Ocean ship.
Laura: Okay. If they were flying, how fast could they get there, potentially?
Travis: I'm only saying, maybe it's empty, right?
Marisha: What is?
Travis: Draconia.
Matt: I'm going to make some mathematics here, if you'll excuse me.
Travis: I'm only saying, if they were just here--
Sam: But we could bamf there right now.
Laura: Check it out and get out before they get back.
Travis: Get people out, do recon, whatever.
Sam: Plant some seeds.
Marisha: Plant some seeds.
Laura: They've probably left a good amount of army there to keep people under control. We'd have to get in and out in a couple of hours.
Sam: And what would our mission be?
Liam: Dump a couple of statues.
Laura: We don't have them.
Taliesin: Let other people do that.
Sam: Wait. What about, instead of dumping statues, we find these orbs? We find his lair, we find his orbs, and we call Thordak and we do a voice like: Yo, Thordak! You're a dickhead! I'm going to come kill you! Or we just smash them.
Taliesin: I don't know why everyone's so excited about the notion of pissing off the dragons to the point at which they all come here, but it is a way to go.
Sam: They don't know we're here.
Taliesin: They know we're here.
Travis: I'm just pointing out an opportunity where there is one.
Sam: That's true.
Matt: A few days.
Laura: It would take them a few days to get there?
Travis: A few days? We would have a whole fucking day!
Marisha: What time is it?
Matt: At this point in time, it's mid-afternoon, evening.
Sam: We have to rest.
Liam: Percival, even just for intelligence, even if it was brief, even to see what is going on there.
Taliesin: We have to make sure that we can get out immediately, and we also have to agree that if things start looking too iffy, we run.
Marisha: I have an idea.
Sam: You have the best ideas.
Marisha: Thank you.
Sam: Lay it on me.
Marisha: Can you Seeming us to all look like lizard army members?
Sam: Tomorrow. And we'll look like us, except vaguely like lizard people.
Travis: Why not wyverns?
Sam: First of all, the lizard army, is that different from wyverns? So they're just scaly creepers. I can do that.
Laura: Have you seen the lizard people?
Sam: No, but I'll see them when we get there.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: You've come across a few of the lizardfolk. They attacked you in Emon. They were on the wyverns. They're humanoid. They're a little larger than one of your half-elf companions or Percy.
Marisha: We fought them on the airship, too, right?
Matt: No, those were bandits. You fought wyverns.
Sam: We could be lizard people, for sure.
Laura: Wait, what?
Taliesin: We could look like lizard people, and it would trick anybody who wasn't a dragon. And if the dragon came, we would be fucked. That would be the end. That would be game over.
Sam: (singing) We could be lizard people!
Taliesin: I'm going to go on record as saying I do not think this is the right move.
Liam: What do you think is the right move?
Sam: He wants to go to Marquet to find some cloak that may or may not help us in a week.
Taliesin: Will help us. Getting three more Vestiges, two more Vestiges, just a little bit more power before starting to play chess again.
Laura: Really the only point of going there would be reconnaissance. That's it. No fighting.
Travis: When else are we going to know for sure?
Taliesin: There's an ancient dwarven saying, and I'm trying to remember where I heard it, but it goes somewhere along the lines of, it's never a three-hour tour. That's my fear.
Travis: Yeah, I know an ancient dwarven one that says no risk...
Sam: That's it.
Taliesin: Your mind is a grandfather clock, you know that.
Travis: Thank you.
Taliesin: It's correct twice a day, easily.
Sam: If we go, what is our mission?
Taliesin: Thank you.
Marisha: To get as many innocents out as we can.
Laura: No. That sounds wonderful, but if we get people out, they're going to know something happened.
Marisha: I figured if we find good fighters once again, and do our tree, our teleport thing--
Sam: We can get 13 people out. That's it.
Marisha: But it could be the 13 people that could change the tide.
Taliesin: This is not going to be a fight of 13 people.
Sam: We had a group of 50 goliaths, and they were all killed instantly.
Marisha: That's what I'm saying.
Laura: Plus, if we're lizard people, the survivors aren't going to be wanting--
Taliesin: They're going to be wondering who we are, first off.
Laura: They're going to be afraid of us.
Sam: I would only want to go there if we had a distinct plan to disrupt or trick or steal.
Travis: Disrupting communications is a great tactic.
Taliesin: We're not going to be able to disrupt communication.
Travis: You don't think we're going to make it to the jewels and smashy-smash?
Taliesin: No.
Marisha: I don't think that's a good idea.
Sam: And I slice the dragon's throat! And I say, I am victorious!
Liam: That sounds like a plan. Let's go.
Matt: So what are you guys doing?
Taliesin: Tightening up. We're going to go. What are we going for?
Sam: Smash the orbs.
Marisha: Well, here's something else I want to put into perspective. If I scry and teleport us to the black dragon's lair, I can do one more scry, and then I would burn my seventh level spell to get us there again, and then I'd be tapped out.
Laura: So we wouldn't be able to bamf out.
Marisha: We wouldn't be able to bamf out that day. We'd be staying the night.
Sam: But I can get us a safe place to stay for the night, no matter where we are.
Taliesin: But it means this is not a one-day, this is a three-day mission.
Marisha: I could not teleport us. It depends on how many times. I've got two teleports, so I can teleport us there and teleport us out, but we'd be doing it from here.
Taliesin: We teleport to the black dragon's lair, we sleep overnight, teleport in, teleport out. And then sleep overnight, teleport either to Whitestone or to Marquet.
Sam: Can you teleport today? Or are you done?
Matt: You can only use that once per day, though, right?
Marisha: I used Plane Shift. I didn't use Transport Via Plants. Yes. Wait. No. I Moved Earth. I can't do it today. It has to be tomorrow. And if that's the case, it's tomorrow, then we lose that two-day grace period. Unless we go right now and sleep overnight in Draconia and start first thing in the morning.
Taliesin: And risk a very reasonable reason that they would know where we are.
Matt: As far as I know, Plane Shift can't teleport you on the same plane. It brings you specifically to another plane of existence.
Marisha: Yeah. I'm saying I cast Plane Shift from the Feywild to here. That's all I'm saying. But I used that, and that's a seventh level spell.
Sam: So if we go to Draconia tonight, if we want to sleep in the mansion, we can't, because I changed his memory.
Laura: Oh fuck.
Sam: So we would have to sleep out in the open as lizard people.
Laura: Nope.
Liam: Too many negatives now.
Laura: This is danger zone.
Marisha: We're getting a lot of cons. There's not so many pros.
Taliesin: We need to sleep anyway, because we're exhausted.
Travis: Oh man. I can find all sorts of problems with a situation if I look hard enough.
Taliesin: That is so astute. It's 12 00. My god, he had a thought.
Travis: Opportunity. Honestly. There's a dragon's perch, and he is vacated, and it will probably never happen again as far as we know.
Taliesin: I disagree. I think the next time they come to attack and kill us, it will be vacated.
Travis: Cool. While they're killing Whitestone because we didn't take advantage of this moment, then we'll go to Draconia.
Taliesin: I agree. I legitimately agree.
Laura: We can sleep and wake up in the morning and teleport there.
Taliesin: We do have to sleep, regardless. There's no getting around sleep.
Laura: We can't fucking go there when we haven't slept, Grog. We'll all die.
Taliesin: We can't actually get there right now.
Marisha: There's also no guarantee that they're going straight back there. Maybe they're heading somewhere else. They were heading with an army to somewhere. It's probably not a city they've already conquered.
Taliesin: They were heading southeast.
Matt: Southeast is what you saw, yes.
Sam: That's where they live.
Taliesin: So they're probably heading back home.
Marisha: Balls. Then where did they come from? What were they doing?
Liam: They were fishing.
Taliesin: They thought that we might be here, and they took a quick look around, which is why I don't want to make any more noise around here.
Sam: Let's sleep.
Taliesin: I'm going to go to the barkeep.
Matt: There is no barkeep here. This tavern has been opened just for you guys to be served. There is no current owner here. Most everyone who helped you open this are yourselves and a couple of civilians that were just there.
Taliesin: Is there a civilian waitress?
Matt: There is no waitress. There are a couple civilians outside, but as soon as you guys started talking, all the civilians left the room.
Laura: They're so nice.
Taliesin: There's no barmaid at all?
Liam: Your nobility is showing, Percival.
Sam: I need a young boy. (laughter)
Liam: These white gloves are sullied. I need a new set of white gloves, please.
Taliesin: They're shooting mittens, and you're so uncouth.
Sam: I have an Unseen Servant. Do you need a servant? I make an Unseen Servant for him.
Matt: There's a wisp of air.
Sam: Command him as you see fit.
Taliesin: Never mind. This is what I get for trying to be nice to anybody. I've learned my lesson.
Sam: I tip the Unseen Servant.
Matt: You toss the coin and it (clinks) to the ground.
Travis: I pounce on it.
Matt: You (soft impact) into this weird cluster of air. It's pushing your beard hair back, and your mouth is full of all that air pushing into it as you reach into the Unseen Servant, grab the coin, and pull it out.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Well done. You got a gold.
Taliesin: We'll sleep for now. We'll wake up in the morning, and we'll either go in one direction or the other.
Laura: Good plan, guys. Good plan.
Marisha: We came up with nothing.
Taliesin: That's so not true. We came up with a lot. We just have to sleep and then make a decision based on what the world looks like in the morning.
Liam: Dream about a cloak, Percival. Maybe we can get you a cloak.
Taliesin: That cloak sounds useful.
Marisha: All right, let's sleep. Let's go to the castle.
Matt: You guys find your way to the castle.
Taliesin: As a side, I want to grab Vex for a quick walk on the way to the castle. I want to go by the cemetery. Has it been worked on, by the way? I suppose I'll find out.
Liam: You did say Vex, right?
Taliesin: Vax.
Liam: You said Vex.
Taliesin: Vax. I've been drinking. I've not even been drinking, I've been pretend drinking.
Matt: All right. You grab him.
Taliesin: I have something to show you.
Liam: What is it?
Taliesin: You'll like it. Well, I don't know if you'll like it. I don't know what you like. I'm going to take him to the cemetery, to the crypt. The title I gave your sister doesn't come with much, but it does come with one, at the moment, tiny plot of land, on which a crypt sits. This was the resting place of the father and grandfather and assorted family members of the man you killed the first night we came here.
Liam: You want my sister to live in a mausoleum?
Taliesin: No. I want something else to live in a mausoleum. This is actually for you. Open it. I go and I light the two little torches on the side. This is very traditional, and it should open. Do you trust me?
Liam: Uh...
Taliesin: Good answer. I'll go in first.
Matt: Percy enters the building.
Liam: I follow.
Matt: Okay. As you enter the mausoleum, the gentle flickering of torchlight that was lit by Percy shows the interior, though it is low-lit partially, and your darkvision does catch you. What was once a relatively decent mausoleum seems to have been gutted, retrofit, and now you see standing before you, is a mostly constructed shrine to the Raven Queen.
Taliesin: I figured it would be a good idea. I've had my fill of gods, but I'm not so foolish to think that we do not need them still. This is here when you need it.
Liam: I am having trouble.
Taliesin: Me, too. I do not want to die who I am. I would like to live long enough to be someone else. I think you understand that.
Liam: I've been really angry at you.
Taliesin: I've been encouraging it.
Liam: I don't know if it's entirely fair, but I can't shake it. I don't know that I'm willing to let go of it yet.
Taliesin: Good. I certainly do not deserve it yet. I don't know if I ever will. But I can't think of anything else to do with my time on earth right now, other than... this. I am finished with gods. They will not help me. Maybe you will.
Liam: Percy.
Taliesin: Yes?
Liam: I've always liked you. From the beginning, I've always liked you.
Taliesin: I've always liked you, too.
Liam: You are intelligent and charming.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Liam: And good in a tight spot.
Taliesin: It's the open spaces where I suffer. The tight spots, I feel very good about. It's the open spaces. This is a very tight spot.
Liam: I would like to be friends with you again. I just have a condition.
Taliesin: Yes?
Liam: My penchant for forgiveness with my sister's welfare is razor thin.
Taliesin: I know.
Liam: If you can respect that, then we don't have a problem.
Taliesin: Do you know why I titled your sister?
Liam: I have some idea.
Taliesin: She thought she was missing something that-- and I use this term loosely-- ordinary people... We have a magic we use, to convince people that we deserve the things we get, those of us who were born this way. It was treating her unfairly and limiting her ability to see her world for what it was worth, and it was a simple and easy fix. She is going to wake up one morning-- not yet, but soon-- and realize that money will not make her happy, and that trying to please that awful father will not make her happy. The first step in that is realizing that he's weak, and there's no better way to do that than being better titled than your parents.
Liam: I don't agree with that line of thinking.
Taliesin: I know. But you are not her. And I'm not saying it's the truth, but it is what I believe is in her heart. I think perhaps that might lift. I will never hurt her. I will never hurt anybody intentionally, especially not you, any more than I already have. In return, I ask: never take your eyes off me. Never trust me. And that is the best friend that you can be.
Liam: I will recommit to that same promise I made.
Taliesin: You can like me. I would love that. And in fact, I hope that I can earn your like.
Liam: I do like you.
Taliesin: I just never want to earn your trust.
Liam: Well, then it's your lucky day.
Taliesin: A gentle title will suit your sister well. I'm leaving.
Matt: Percy walks out. You're left alone in the silence and darkness, looking at the small shrine before you.
Liam: I'm on board. You have me. Whatever you will. I have something I need to take care of, which you know, and I hope you will help me with it. But I do not take your gift lightly. You have me. I close the door again and head back to town.
Matt: Back into town. You guys quietly keep your distance in your walk, find your way back to the castle to your respective rooms, and an evening's rest takes you all.
Marisha: Do I hear Vax go to his room?
Matt: Are you waiting to hear Vax go to his room?
Marisha: I'm waiting to hear Vax go to his room.
Matt: Actually, knowing Vax, you wouldn't hear anything. (laughter)
Liam: 30.
Matt: You wait for a long time, and no sound comes to your ears.
Marisha: I go to sleep.
Matt: All right. And with that, as you guys rest for the night, we're going to take a quick bathroom break. We'll be back here in a few minutes. We had a friend come and deliver a gift to Laura, which you can see presented on the table now. It is a replica that someone, Kiki Day, made this awesome prop replica of Fenthras.
Laura: I wish you guys could see it up close. Obviously, we're going to send a picture on Twitter so you guys can see it, but it lights up different colors!
Matt: Design based on David Rodriguez's concept art for Fenthras.
Laura: It's got Elvish for "protector" and "growth."
Matt: That's so badass.
Laura: Did I say it right? Protector, not protection? Protector is right!
Marisha: Protector and growth.
Laura: Say what?!
Matt: That is awesome.
Laura: Thank you so much!
Matt: Thank you, Kiki!
Laura: You're unbelievable.
Travis: Should we put it down?
Matt: All right. There we go.
Laura: Lean it up against the table.
Matt: So. As you guys come to consciousness the next morning, the storm has come in now--
Laura: By the way, I got terrible sleep. I replayed everything Saundor said in my head a hundred times.
Matt: Make a general wisdom saving throw.
Liam: You're paralyzed from fear.
Laura: I am terrible! Wisdom saving throw? 12.
Matt: 12? Okay. Your evening is hard-pressed. You do manage to get a full night's sleep; you do not suffer any exhaustion. You do manage to get rest, though the nightmares do come in memory of your last encounter at the Feywild, and Saundor's words still swimming around in your head, finding cracks in your sense of self. But you still are stalwart against the choice you made and the friends that were at your back. And as you all come to consciousness, the sound of rain outside of the castle against the exterior stone greets you with the morning. You can smell the fresh rain in the air, and eventually come down to find breakfast prepared, a meal earned.
Taliesin: Not chicken.
Matt: Not chicken, no. This is eggs, fruits. A classic Whitestone breakfast. Chicken is available, but strangely untouched.
Laura: Baked beans. Tell me there's baked beans!
Taliesin: The thick, single-slab bacon.
Liam: Blood pudding.
Marisha: Basically an Irish breakfast.
Matt: There are a few farms here, most are in the surrounding fields south of the city. It's good. It's fresh.
Taliesin: The rain is good. It will mean that they'll have an easier time figuring out the water level while they're digging out beneath the Sun Tree and making sure that it's secure. I love this weather.
Sam: Well? To Marquet or to Draconia? What's it going to be? Should we vote?
Taliesin: An attempt at an object of power or an attempt at friends in power?
Sam: Which is which?
Taliesin: Draconia has friends in power.
Marisha: Speaking of friends, we should probably check up on ours.
Taliesin: (long sigh) That is true. We haven't heard anything, but that is true.
Marisha: We haven't heard anything about him.
Laura: It's terrifying.
Marisha: I know.
Sam: He's probably okay.
Travis: Who are we talking about? (laughter)
Sam: Jarett.
Travis: Oh.
Sam: Our only friend in Draconia.
Taliesin: I personally would assume that Tiberius would either be on his way to one of the two cities, if he were so inclined. And if he had survived. And if he wasn't working in the city itself to keep it functioning.
Marisha: He's hard-headed enough. So all of those things are very true.
Taliesin: And again, we're at war. This is not a battle. We do not win by going to Draconia. We do not win by going to Marquet. We win months from now.
Marisha: You're starting to make less and less sense, Percy.
Taliesin: No! I'm making perfect sense.
Liam: Part of the traditional Whitestone breakfast is--
Laura: A rambling de Rolo.
Taliesin: Breakfast needs things to live. (laughter)
Liam: I think you got that backwards?
Sam: Whitestone continental breakfast. Two eggs, rambling tirade. (laughter)
Laura: Vote, then?
Liam: Vote.
Taliesin: I'm all right with a vote.
Sam: All right, all in favor of going to Marquet to find a Vestige that will maybe give us some more power that we need to kill a dragon, say aye!
Taliesin: Aye.
Liam: Aye.
Sam: All in favor of going to Draconia, where we don't really have a great plan but I think we're going to go try to fuck up a dragon's lair and maybe rescue five people and probably die as lizard people, say aye.
Laura: Aye.
Travis: Aye.
Sam: Aye.
Marisha: Aye.
Laura: I've changed my mind. I want to go to Marquet now.
Sam: Three to three.
Laura: Sorry. Oh shit! I didn't mean to fuck that up. Trinket, what's your vote?
Taliesin: Hold on, let's see if Ashley texts in the next ten minutes.
Matt: Three versus three. Are you going leave it up to the dice, being a game of DND?
Sam: Let's do it.
Marisha: Where's that coin we have?
Taliesin: I have it. I have it right here. Yeah.
Liam: You could also do one to ten and 11 to 20.
Taliesin: One or 20. Ready?
Sam: Wait, we're just doing one flip?
Laura: Yeah!
Sam: No. What?!
Taliesin: Yes. It's flipped!
Laura: What is what?
Marisha: Okay! 20 is Marquet and a one is Draconia.
Sam: What about all the other numbers?
Taliesin: There's only two! It's a coin!
Matt: 20, Marquet. One is Draconia.
Taliesin: And any other number, we stay home.
Laura: What is it?
Taliesin: We're going to Draconia, and we're going to see if we could find Tiberius.
Sam: Oh god!
Laura: Let it be known, I don't think we should go as lizard people anymore.
Travis: Why?
Laura: I think we should go as ravaged Draconians.
Taliesin: I think we should go as Draconians.
Marisha: We can make ourselves look like dragonborn with Seeming?
Taliesin: I think that's a better plan.
Laura: At least that way, they'll trust us.
Taliesin: We don't have to teleport to the middle of nowhere. Well, we do need to get farther away from here. Is there any way to get farther away from where we are right now before we--
Liam: Can we get back to Umbrasyl's lair? I thought that was a good idea.
Sam: We could go there and there and back.
Taliesin: Well, as long as we commit to 24 hours in Draconia no matter what.
Marisha: We can go to Umbrasyl's lair, but it'll take an extra day, because I can only teleport us so many times.
Taliesin: I think 72 hours is a perfectly reasonable amount of time to dedicate to this prospect.
Laura: Pop in, scry, pop into Draconia, look around and next day, pop out. Can we do that?
Sam: Yep.
Liam: If we stop at Umbrasyl's lair, is there anything we can do to run Grog out like a labrador? I'm worried about him not getting enough playtime in.
Sam: In Draconia?
Liam: No, in the mansion. Can you bamf up anything for him in the mansion?
Sam: You're talking about tonight?
Liam: No. We're going to go camp somewhere for a day, right?
Laura: No, we're going to Draconia.
Liam: Right now?
Sam: Go to the black dragon lair, then go to Draconia, then spend a night there.
Liam: I've been travelling with these fuckers for years, and I still don't understand magic.
Marisha: Hold on a second. We have two choices if we're going to Draconia: we can either go to Umbrasyl's lair to scry from there, then teleport there, which means we will be staying the night in Draconia.
Sam: In Draconia?
Taliesin: In Draconia.
Marisha: In Draconia.
Marisha: Or we go to Draconia right now, blindly, and then I'd still have a spell to get us out.
Sam: But they could track us back here.
Laura: How can we go there blindly if you don't know where a tree is?
Marisha: Well, I'd scry.
Sam: And then they'd know where we are.
Marisha: They could theoretically, if we get caught.
Laura: We would only scry on a tree. We wouldn't scry on a dragon.
Taliesin: I have a compromise.
Sam: Actually, can I just throw this out? The only thing that would detect us scrying is currently flying over the ocean. We can scry right now.
Taliesin: Let's scry from the giant's cave outside the city.
Laura: It'll still take a couple of hours to get there, though?
Taliesin: Couple of hours to get there. It's fine. It's nine. It's seven--
Laura: It's 5 00 in the morning!
Taliesin: It's 3am! Why are we awake?
Matt: You're still drunk somehow.
Taliesin: We get far enough outside of the city so at the very least--
Sam: To the giant's lair! To scry!
Matt: North of the city, up into the beginning stages of the Alabaster Sierras, you find the abandoned fortress that is there, embedded on the side of the mountain wall. Keyleth, you are attempting a scrying spell? What are you scrying on?
Marisha: Okay. I have the map of Draconia, let me just see if I can scry--
Sam: You know what you know in Draconia? Do you know what you know in Draconia? You know Tiberius and you know his armor, and you know his objects and personal effects?
Marisha: No, we don't know if he's in Draconia.
Taliesin: We may end up somewhere random.
Sam: That's true. but what do you know what is in Draconia?
Marisha: I know of the things that Tiberius has told us.
Sam: Do you know any of his friends or his family? Have we met his family?
Matt: You have not met his family. You've never been there.
Marisha: I don't need to have a known location, right? I can just scry in a general area, yeah?
Matt: You need generally a creature of some kind.
Sam: What about his little pet?
Laura: Are you not scrying on a tree?
Liam: Lockheed.
Marisha: Lockheed has a higher chance of being dead than Tiberius.
Taliesin: I think that's underestimating, or overestimating-- I don't know.
Liam: It's a coin flip.
Taliesin: It's a coin flip, really. He's small.
Marisha: Well, this could answer our question. If I can't find anybody, then we might be going to Marquet.
Sam: That's true.
Taliesin: Go for it, then. See what happens.
Marisha: I guess it's Tiberius, then? He's all I got. It's got to be someone that I know? It can't be something I've heard about?
Matt: It can be something you've heard about. A person or a creature.
Taliesin: A person or a creature, not a place?
Matt: Not necessarily, no.
Taliesin: Can it be a magic object?
Matt: It would be a creature of some kind.
Travis: We know about Tiberius. We know about Kruvanis Stormwind.
Sam: We know of Lockheed.
Liam: The Mending Wheel. A creature only? Oh shit. Fucking magic!
Laura: That's what he just said!
Marisha: Are we gambling on Tiberius being there?
Sam: You're going to gamble on Tiberius?
Marisha: I am gambling on whoever we scry to, because they could all be dead.
Sam: How many times can you scry?
Marisha: Theoretically, four times.
Laura: I've also got a Scrying Stone.
Taliesin: Start with the stone.
Marisha: That's right, you've got that goddamn thing. Give me the stone.
Laura: Here.
Marisha: Thank you!
Taliesin: I think we should call it rock. The Rock.
Marisha: It doesn't go away, right?
Laura: No. it's a Scrying Eye. You can use it once a day.
Marisha: Yeah. Let's do this!
Sam: Start with Tiberius.
Taliesin: Start with Tiberius. We'll work our way down.
Marisha: Start with Tiberius.
Laura: I was going to bring it out!
Taliesin: No, you did wonderfully.
Laura: It was just sitting there.
Matt: You take the object. You close your eyes, focusing on the memory and the life essence of Tiberius Stormwind. You project your thoughts into the ether. The nature energies carry you into the darkness, and there is no response.
Sam: No response?
Matt: No response. The scrying spell finds no target.
Taliesin: That can mean a lot of things.
Liam: Yes, does that stretch across the planes?
Sam: Does it?
Matt: Generally, it's on the same plane of existence.
Sam: Okay. What about his father?
Taliesin: Or Lockheed?
Sam: Well, Lockheed would be with--
Taliesin: Not necessarily. How many times have we found stray cats?
Laura: It's true. Maybe scry on Lockheed.
Marisha: Can I try it? Will it expend another spell?
Matt: This one will expend a spell.
Marisha: It lasts for ten minutes? Oh, per spell.
Sam: So you're burning your own spell slot.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm burning my own spells.
Laura: At least you got one for free.
Sam: Thanks, Vex.
Marisha: It makes me very nervous.
Sam: We should do his dad.
Taliesin: That would be who I would kill if I were taking over the city.
Sam: You just want to kill everybody.
Taliesin: I do.
Marisha: I'm going to try Lockheed. His dad could be in a place where he's being watched.
Matt: Okay. So this time, you give the object back to Vex and you sit down and create the ritual space before you. You sit down in the center of the stone floor of the fortress and you close your eyes. This time, you send out your consciousness once more. The druidic energies carry you an extended distance in but a few moments, and your vision clicks in and you see, perched against a snow-covered rock in the inside of a ravine, a shivering, small, green dragonling. Alone, and is partially asleep against the stone. You can see just past over this large, gaping ravine that is the center of this portion of Wildemount, you can see scattered rubble covered in ice and snow and small distant things you can't quite make out with your vision here occasionally moving through it.
Sam: Can you see any trees?
Marisha: Do I find any trees?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: 19.
Matt: 19. There's no visible trees in the ravine. Anything that would be living down there has been-- from your vision here-- obscured by rock, rubble, ruined floating island, and snowfall. You do see growing out of the side of the rock, not far from where Lockheed is perched is one leafless, small branch of a tree that extends out. And as you glance up, there is a very thick tree that is currently jutting out the side of the mountain.
Marisha: Does it appear to be natural?
Matt: It does.
Marisha: And large enough to fit Grog?
Matt: Maybe.
Laura: Jutting out the side of--
Matt: Yeah. It's not sitting on ground, but is currently over the ravine.
Marisha: Yeah, one of those. Any other trees? Is this the biggest or closest one?
Matt: That's all you can make out from this perspective.
Marisha: How big is the ravine? How deep is it?
Matt: From where you can tell right now, from the perspective you can see, looking at Lockheed, it's probably a good 50-foot fall before you hit a scattering of broken rock, and eventually it comes into a grade to the bottom of the ravine.
Travis: Not great.
Marisha: Not a good option.
Matt: You guys have fallen 50 feet and been fine.
Sam: Someone has Feather Fall, right? No?
Marisha: Did it look like a natural cavern or a man-made cavern that Lockheed was in?
Matt: From what you can tell, it looks natural.
Marisha: Like he found a little cave and is hiding?
Matt: It's less of a cave and more he's perched on this little alcove, this little outcropping of rock on the side of the ravine wall.
Marisha: Oh, he's on the side of the ravine.
Matt: On the side of the ravine.
Laura: Okay, I have an idea. What if we tie a rope on something on this side and we all go out of the rope really fast and drop down?
Taliesin: Grog first.
Sam: Should you scry one more time, for the dad? Because best-case scenario, we're in a weird, snowy ravine with no civilization around.
Taliesin: We don't want to be around any civilization. And also, that's one more spell gone.
Matt: You did see, distant, blurred from your perspective, since the focus of the scry was on Lockheed, you did see movement and very small distant objects within the snow at the base of the ravine.
Laura: They could potentially see us as soon as we come out of the tree.
Sam: Yeah, we'll be far away.
Marisha: They could be citizens, they could be creatures? I just saw movement of figures, I didn't see any details?
Sam: Seems like a good plan.
Laura: This is risky.
Marisha: This is ridiculous.
Taliesin: It's true. There's only risk at this point. Is this the risk we make or is this not the risk we make. Grog?
Travis: Oh, are we asking for Grog's opinion now?
Taliesin: Only so that we can ignore it.
Laura: You're the one that was most adamant about us going there.
Taliesin: With the new data, how do you feel?
Travis: I think we should take the hint and not go.
Sam: But you said--
Travis: Yeah, but I was picturing meandering out of a nice, beautiful tree in a forest.
Sam: It's a little jolt. It's a little fall. It's fine.
Liam: That's it. He created this idea and he's backing out.
Sam: You told us your famous phrase  all risk! That's what this is.
Travis: I do hate to have my own words used against me.
Sam: All risk. That's what this is! We are doing all risk!
Travis: I'm down to party. I'm just saying it was a little different in my head.
Sam: I've never known you to be a coward, Grog.
Taliesin: No! Why would you do that?!
Laura: Why, Scanlan?!
Travis: I'll go first. You hold my hand, and I'll go first.
Liam: He can play the fiddle very well.
Travis: I'll go. Let's do it. I'm ready.
Laura: Okay, before we go through, I'm going to cast Pass Without a Trace on us so we can stealth through the tree. Like that's going to work.
Taliesin: No, that's a good idea.
Laura: I'm going to look for something very solid. Are there trees around us that we can go through right now?
Matt: A short walk, you could get down to the base of the forest.
Laura: All right. I'm going to tie the rope off onto a very sturdy thing next to a tree that we're going to go through.
Taliesin: We're going to rappel.
Laura: Yes.
Travis: Does the portal only close after a couple seconds?
Taliesin: Yes. Six seconds. We're all going to hold on to the rope and we all go.
Matt: Six seconds for all of you to--
Laura: Jump out!
Marisha: Bungee-jumping out of a tree!
Liam: We are fucking idiots!
Marisha: This is the stupidest--
Taliesin: This is a terrible plan. I want to go on record for saying I was against this plan--
Sam: We can just leave really quick! She's got another teleport, yeah. We're going to climb up to the tree--
Marisha: I didn't see Draconia. I saw the ravine, and it was snowy, so we can assume it's nearby. But I didn't see Draconia, did I?
Matt: You've never seen Draconia before.
Marisha: But did I see a city in my scry?
Matt: You saw no city.
Laura: You saw rubble.
Marisha: Once again, Lockheed could have flown miles away.
Taliesin: He could have.
Sam: At the worst, this is a quick recon mission. We jump back in the tree, we come back. 15 minutes.
Laura: But there's things that were crawling around amongst the dead.
Sam: They were far off in the distance!
Taliesin: They weren't that far off. But to be fair, this is what a plan is, is everything going wrong. So I'm all right with doing this, if we're doing this.
Travis: All right, sweet. I am, too.
Marisha: All right, fuck it! Let's do it.
Matt: All right. So you've affixed the rope at the base of the strongest tree you can find.
Marisha: Are we going to tie ourselves to each other again, like before?
Laura: No! Because that's dumb. We're going to break our backs. I'm going to cast Pass Without a Trace on everyone right now because why the fuck not?
Sam: You got a fucking broom. I'm hopping on the broom.
Laura: Oh yeah, I'm on the broom. And he's on the broom.
Taliesin: Vex, we're going to have the greatest I-told-you-so if we survive this.
Matt: All right. We have Vex and Scanlan on the broom.
Travis: Should you make me some something teensy?
Marisha: Oh, this is such a stupid idea...
Taliesin: No, we're going to need every spell we need in there. No, you're the weight that's going to hold the rope down, you're going first.
Matt: Any of your spell prep?
Liam: I'm going to pop my wings out and hook my arms under Kiki's armpits.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm holding on the rope, because I'm an idiot.
Matt: All right. Grog and Percy holding onto the rope.
Marisha: This is stupid. This is so stupid!
Taliesin: I hate you all.
Marisha: We've done so many fucking stupid things. But this is really stupid.
Matt: Vex casts Pass Without a Trace. The shadows reach around and embrace your forms. You become more obscured the further the light is from your body. Keyleth, what are you doing?
Marisha: I cast Transport Via Plants on that big, fatty tree!
Matt: Keyleth touches the edge of the tree, the rope which is affixed to above. The trunk (portal opens).
Marisha: Everyone ready?
Taliesin: Go!
Marisha: Go!
Laura: I fly through stealthily.
Matt: You fly through stealthily.
Laura: I'm trying to get down to the ground quickly and hide behind something.
Matt: Right. I would like all of you guys to make stealth checks at disadvantage.
Travis: Yes! That's awesome.
Marisha: Oh, that's not too bad.
Travis: 17!
Sam: Pass Without a Trace?
Travis: Oh. 27.
Taliesin: 20.
Sam: 20.
Marisha: 22.
Liam: 35.
Laura: 33.
Travis: 27.
Matt: All right. As Vex and Scanlan scoot first through the opening, you coast down, and there is a cluster of rocks, but there's a light snowdust, and you find a snowbank that you guys coast down to quickly. You can decide to float above the snowbank. What do you want to do?
Laura: We get down on the ground and go under.
Matt: Okay, so you disappear under the snowbank. It is freezing cold, the wet immediately falling snow against your form begins to seep in. But you are below eye-level. Vax and Keyleth? You guys just dart through, you holding her.
Liam: Fly through, and then once I see them hit the ground, I'm going to dive-bomb us, and I'm going to wrap us in a little wing bubble and roll into the snow.
Matt: All right. As you guys come falling out the side of the tree, you see nearby as a small, green tiny dragon gets startled and flies off. You guys go coasting, the wings expand for a second. It picks up and as you hit, whipping past the 15 feet of jagged rocks that were gathered at the base of the ravine, you scoot over it, the wings fold in around you, and you guys tumble into the snow. Make an acrobatics check with disadvantage because you're grabbing onto her and are covered in wings.
Laura: And you're covered in wings.
Liam: I rolled a 15 and a 20. That would be a 30.
Matt: You don't feel the pain. And the wings do cause a significant barrier of impact, as well as the snow. As soon as you land, you go into a classic shoulder roll and use the inertia to not arise above the water. You both essentially coast sideways, stopping within the snowbank. From an overhead perspective, you can see a large swath has been carved through. But from visual eye range, at equal level, you guys still appear to be hidden within the snow. The two of you jump through and start rappelling down, Grog at the bottom end. Bringing the rope, bringing the rope down, bringing the rope down. It slams shuts, the rope cuts at the other end as the portal closes. Percy, you just make it out as the rope gives way. It is now Grog and Percy plummeting toward the ground.
Marisha: I cast a Grasping Vine to grab Grog.
Matt: You don't have the opportunity, because this all happens in a period of six seconds and you guys just landed and coasted in the snow.
Travis: Am I right under Percy?
Matt: He's about five feet ahead of you, yeah.
Travis: (laughs)
Taliesin: I'm going to let that happen.
Matt: You're cushioning his fall?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: All right. Make an acrobatics check, just for the hell of it.
Liam: I love this game.
Travis: 13.
Matt: 13. As soon as you look over your shoulder and see the ground coming, you try and swing your legs underneath to catch you, to slide across. And you begin to. Your feet catch the rock and you feel the muscles tense. Your back gets jammed a little bit. And you catch Percy in your arms, but the momentum of Percy hitting you sends you back over, and you both tumble into the snow. You do prevent Percy from taking any damage, but you do suffer five points of fall damage.
Liam: Stubbed your toe, big guy?
Travis: I got a booby.
Sam: Is Lockheed within range still? Can we see him?
Matt: You guys make a perception check.
Marisha: Can I look, too?
Matt: You're just now getting up out of the ball of wings.
Laura: 25.
Sam: Six.
Laura: 25.
Matt: 25. You do see Lockheed is about 50, 60 feet up on the rock right now.
Sam: Where's Lockheed?
Laura: Can I whisper in Draconic? Lockheed! And whatever the word is for "Come to me."
Matt: Seems too far to really be within earshot of a whisper.
Sam: I see her doing this. I point to him, and I cast Message, and I say: Lockheed! We're down here! Come down! It's us, your friends!
Matt: Lockheed (wingbeats) and then glides against the rock. And glides lower to the rock. Glides lower to the rock, and flies up-- still keeping a cautious distance from you above the snow.
Liam: Tibs. We're friends with Tibs. Tiberius. You remember us?
Matt: You can see Lockheed a little closer now. You remember him being fairly sick when he was initially purchased. While the illness has passed, he looks greatly malnourished and thin--
Laura: I pull out some of my food that I give to Trinket and try to feed it...
Matt: As soon as you pull out the food, Lockheed's demeanor changes immediately. Darts up and almost latches onto your hand and causes you to jump--
Laura: I cast Speak With Animals. Is he an animal?
Matt: Nope.
Sam: I have Speak With Small Beasts...
Matt: Not a beast.
Sam: Fuck you! (laughter)
Liam: He's a little small monster.
Laura: I would have known, as a dragon expert, that he's not a fucking animal, then. Whatever.
Sam: What is a monster?
Taliesin: Hit your head in the fall.
Laura: I didn't fall, I flew.
Travis: Pike's a small monster.
Sam: Just grab him and put him in the bag of holding!
Matt: At this point now, the temperature's really set into you. You've heard stories. You're familiar with the sound. The words you've heard of Wildemount, being largely a colder continent, especially to the north where the actual civilizations of man exist. Draconia's a little further to the south, but also based on the information you have, this being taken recently as the den of Vorugal, there is an almost perpetual small snowstorm that is existing about this ravine, and the wind itself is beginning to cut through. Thankfully, you're mostly armored up. For the time being, you're fine. But you can see where this is a difficult weather pattern to perpetually live in. Lockheed finishes eating vigorously and seems to be waiting across your hand.
Laura: Perch him on my shoulder and get out some more of the little boar meat we have in the bag of colding and feeding him.
Matt: He eats some, happily.
Laura: Can I speak Draconic to him, see if he understands any of that?
Matt: What do you say?
Liam: Tiberius was teaching him Draconic.
Laura: Yeah, I know. I say "Where is Tiberius?" in Draconic.
Liam: Where is home?
Laura: Where is home?
Matt: (croaking)
Liam: Unless Tibs got further along with him, it was one word--
Sam: He was teaching him "sit" and "play dead" and stuff.
Liam: One word at a time.
Laura: All right. Stay.
Matt: And stays and digs in the talons at the top of your leather armor shoulder, folds thed wings in and just waits there, huddled up against your shoulder for warmth.
Taliesin: I'm going to look around and see if there's a direction in which it seems there's civilization or any signs of battle or otherwise.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: 16. You bring your head above the snowline and you can see surrounding you-- and you are in the center of this giant ravine that opens up to the sky. Not quite Grand Canyon size, but it's about half the width. It's a wide gulf. And you guys are on one side of where the ravine slowly begins to coalesce, and there's various steps in which the ravine casts down. You were already towards the bottom when you landed. This could have been a lot worse were it higher up. Looking up, you see, just from this vantage point, dozens of large stacks of broken rock and stone. You see pillars that are jutting out of portions of this. You see partially and mostly collapsed buildings that themselves have been destroyed from serious impact. You recall, during the initial attack of the Conclave, that one of the things that was seen through a vision was the fall of Draconia, which were islands of stone that were held aloft through arcane means within this ravine. What you now look upon are all the fallen remains of each of these arcane islands now plummeted, crushed, and fell into the ravine and have been sundered and destroyed. You do see figures moving quickly and crawling over elements of it, and you see a cluster of them fighting over something and then disperse.
Liam: How far off?
Matt: They're probably a good 300 feet off.
Laura: Could we tell what kind of creatures they are?
Matt: They appear to be humanoid, somewhat reptilian.
Sam: Should I make us lizard people?
Marisha: Can I do a nature check to see if I can see the origin, the epicenter of the storm? Like the eye of the storm? Where it's coming from?
Taliesin: Clever.
Marisha: 16.
Matt: 16. Best that you can view, the storm seems to be slowly spiraling, and a large heavy portion of the snowfall and sleet is hitting about a mile or so towards the right side of the ravine that you guys are looking at. From the wall you're at, you have the right and the left sides of this current ravine structure, seems to be that direction, about a mile.
Marisha: I think the dragon's lair is that way.
Sam: Can you look around for more trees that aren't so hard to get to in case we need to make a fast getaway?
Taliesin: We could just keep our eyes open.
Sam: All right.
Marisha: You said it was a mile. Can we traverse through the bottom of the ravine to get there in that direction?
Sam: Or is it all water?
Matt: No, you can.
Travis: We're going to crack out the good old Dust of Tracelessness since there's knee-high snow?
Taliesin: Let's not be fleshy.
Sam: You want me to make us Draconians or lizard people?
Taliesin: If we're lizard people, Draconians will not trust us.
Liam: Yeah. We can at least pretend to cower and be afraid of lizard men if we see them.
Sam: I don't think Grog can cower.
Travis: What is the definition of this word?
Sam: Be a wussy.
Taliesin: Shaky dance. (laughter)
Liam: You know when you bang your balls on a rock or something? It's like that, you go, (groans).
Taliesin: Is there anything you're not good at? Don't think that hard. Never mind.
Sam: Draconians?
Taliesin: Draconians.
Sam: I will cast Seeming on the party and make us all Draconians.
Matt: What kind of Draconians? There are many types of colors, there are those with and without tails--
Sam: Wasn't Tiberius a strange one?
Laura: Don't do red!
Sam: He was a strange one, right?
Marisha: He was the odd man out.
Liam: They didn't take kindly to him.
Sam: Metallic, yeah?
Liam: Bronze?
Sam: Like gray, silver?
Laura: Maybe it's good to make us silvers and whiteish!
Sam: Bronze, silver, and gold then, I guess.
Liam: That's chromatic. Metallic! Bronze, silver, gold.
Sam: Yeah, we'll do the Olympics.
Matt: With or without tail? Because you've met both.
Taliesin: They won't actually be tails. That might actually get us in trouble.
Sam: Which one was Tiberius?
Matt: Tiberius had a tail.
Sam: Do most of them have a tail?
Laura: Gern didn't have a tail and he was less than-- I don't think Draconians will like us without a tail.
Sam: We all have tails. Mine's a little longer than the rest. (laughter)
Matt: Keeping your normal attire, just on the top of the Draconian form?
Sam: No! What do Draconians wear?
Laura: Rags! Put us in rags, like we've been living in rubble.
Sam: Raw silk and tattered clothes, just rags, terrible gray things.
Laura: Make us look like we've been beat up.
Sam: Sure. We all have a single bruise. (laughter)
Sam: In a different place on our face. Everyone's got one face bruise in a different place.
Matt: All of your forms shift into that of various metallic dragonborn, with tails, adorned in rags, dirty. What do you do?
Laura: Oh shit, who all speaks Draconic here?
Sam: You speak Draconic! (laughter)
Sam: We're all mutes. We're lepers and mutes, and you are our doctor?
Liam: Everybody else does fearful anime reacts the whole time. (gasping)
Travis: (speaking in Japanese)
Laura: Don't actually speak Japanese, Grog.
Taliesin: We're moving towards the epicenter.
Matt: You guys step up out of the snow and begin walking?
Marisha: Stealthily.
Laura: Okay, I'm stealthily leading us. That direction, towards where the lair is?
Travis: Keeping an eye out for trees.
Laura: And for any of the lizard creatures coming towards us.
Matt: Right now, no.
Laura: Then let's quietly make our way that direction.
Liam: Remember, like you've been hit in the balls.
Travis: Oh.
Matt: You guys cluster up and begin stepping above the snow, which is still about waist, knee-high for some of you. Making your way to the right of your current location, towards the center of the storm that Keyleth discovered. As you guys begin to walk, a nearby pile of rock and rubble, there was that one cluster of four, five of these moving lizard-like entities. Suddenly, one of them looks at your group, looks back at the rest, and they all stand up and look over in your direction.
Sam: You're our leader, friend. Do we continue?
Matt: They're just watching you. They're not doing anything.
Laura: Let's injuredly keep walking.
Matt: They go back to rummaging through. You guys continue to walk. The ravine curves to the right, or at least begins to open up further to the right and you're met with the next large structure of rubble. What you saw was the edge of an extremely large, once-floating island, now crushed and sundered across the ground. There are sheets of ice across parts of it. You can see the better part of a large palace or library that is now caved in partially. You can see frozen books scattered across portions of the stone and rock on the ground before you. You can see a series of huts have been constructed on top of this rubble, and there are some small fires lit, little plumes of smoke and probably two dozen dragonborn figures that are currently combing through the rubble.
Laura: Do we see any books that seem interesting as we're walking through them?
Matt: They're underneath ice. You can try and chisel some out, if you like.
Liam: Don't have time!
Matt: A lot of it's covered in snow. There's some bits you can peek through and see sheets of ice and frozen books--
Travis: Are there any frozen bodies?
Matt: As you begin to have a closer book as you walk by, there are many frozen bodies. You see many people, all dragonborn, some atop the rubble, some partially crushed, some partially locked in ice, some destroyed by some sort of an acidic substance. Some of them are covered in boils, and their face is locked in some sort of horrible coughing fit. This was a very terrifying battle scene that has transpired here.
Laura: That means Raishan was here.
Marisha: That means Thordak was here.
Liam: Umbrasyl was here. Acid.
Marisha: They attacked the cities as a horde.
Matt: There are no signs of anyone burned.
Marisha: I thought you said ash.
Laura: The people that are scouring through the rubble, are those dragonborn or just the lizard people?
Matt: Best that you can tell right now, it appears to be dragonborn.
Laura: Can we look at their behavior and see what it looks like they're doing?
Matt: Make an insight check.
Taliesin: I would like to join that insight check.
Sam: I would not like to.
Taliesin: Nine.
Liam: Nine.
Sam: I will join that insight check.
Marisha: I'll join in, too.
Matt: You've already said no.
Laura: 13. This isn't having to do with dragons? So it's 13.
Marisha: I don't do insight checks too often, I'm sorry. 22.
Matt: Did you roll or not?
Travis: Oh, I rolled a ten.
Matt: Best you can tell, they're surviving. They're scouring through the ruins, trying to find anything of worth. Some of it's finding wood and throwing it onto these little flame pyres that are scattered around the ruins. You begin to look and see that actually the sides of the ravine, there are hundreds of small caverns are carved into the rock. Not quite like a dense honeycomb style, but it looks like there is an entire cave city that lives within this ravine.
Liam: And they're not frozen over?
Matt: Some of them are covered in snow.
Liam: But snow, not blasted with ice?
Taliesin: They look like they're in use?
Matt: Some of these dragonborn, they're coming out of their huts. Some of them are still looking up at the sky nervously. They look over and see you guys approaching and a voice calls out, "Who goes there?"
Laura: Friends. Friends of Stormwinds.
Matt: "Friends of Stormwind, you say? We have friends of Stormwind. Approach."
Laura: I walk up injuredly.
Liam: I'm hobbling up behind.
Taliesin: I'm cowering.
Matt: You guys cower and approach. Keyleth, Vax, and Vex, you notice as you approach that a number of the people that have all stopped and are paying attention are beginning to move around and encircle you.
Laura: Pardon my friends, their tongues have been cut out by our captors. I'm all that's left.
Matt: As you walk forward you can see the figure that's talking to you, a very tall, burly, bronze-scaled dragonborn, long horns that protrude down the back in a slow curvature. No tail. In fact, you now notice that every single one of the dragonborn you've noticed here have no tail.
Sam: We had a 50-50 chance!
Matt: "Friends of Stormwind. That would make you Sky-walkers. I see your tails. You survive the onslaught and step into the den of those you persecuted. Well, what are your last words?"
Sam: This was a great plan.
Liam: Drop it.
Sam: I don't know what's going on.
Marisha: Is this all being said in Draconic?
Sam: It's Draconian! I don't know what's happening.
Laura: You know what, I don't know what to tell you. Everyone with a tail's an asshole. We got what was coming to us.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Taliesin: Wow!
Laura: 19?
Matt: He turns his head to the side a bit. (spits) "What skills do you have?"
Laura: I can shoot.
Matt: "Is that all?"
Laura: He makes boots.
Matt: "That's a skill."
Laura: She's really good at stonecraft.
Matt: All the other dragonborn that come behind you are now holding spears, some of them rudimentary-looking pikes that are just held up and pointed in your direction. You guys are now enclosed by about two dozen dragonborn. "Here are your choices: You die here like the scum you are--"
Laura: Choice B.
Matt: "Then slavery it is." (laughter)
Matt: "You will join the rest of your ilk, and you will seek food for us. You will know what it's like to be bent beneath the knee of those who do not deserve it. Put them in chains!"
Laura: Oh, they're going to know, as soon as we're in chains.
Liam: Well, we're going to have a fight here.
Laura: Oh, shall we drop Seeming? Perhaps we should drop Seeming?
Sam: What? Is it going well?
Laura: Wait.
Matt: They approach, and stop for a second. A few of the folks who came over and went to grab for chains have stopped and are holding them in their hand.
Laura: I have to tell you something. We're not actually Draconian.
Matt: He leans in and gives you this very keen look now, and takes a few steps closer. He's about five feet from you now. "From where I stand, you look pretty fucking Draconian to me."
Laura: Well, we have some really good magic users with us. Look, forgive us for making tails. We don't know anything about your culture. We're idiots! We came here because we know you're under attack, and we're trying to help.
Matt: "And you just wander into the caves of the Ravenites, dressed in the face of those that broke our backs?"
Laura: Yep, because we're stupid!
Matt: Make a persuasion check with disadvantage.
Sam: Disadvantage. Not good.
Laura: 14?
Matt: 14? "Bring the chains. You have ten seconds to prove--"
Laura: Drop Seeming, just drop it.
Sam: Really? It's one of my better spells.
Laura: I know, I'm sorry!
Sam: All right, poof. We're back to normal.
Matt: All of your images fade. Everyone takes a step back. The spears come up even further, and there's a little pause.
Marisha: My tail's gone! Bummer.
Laura: No, believe me, you don't want the tail.
Marisha: But I enjoyed it.
Liam: Does this make things better or worse for us?
Laura: I repeat him.
Matt: Yeah, the reactions you get from them, you gather most of these don't speak Common and none of them seem to understand what you're saying.
Laura: Here's the thing. You're being attacked by a white dragon.
Matt: "The white dragon came, and he tore down the Sky-walkers."
Laura: So you're happy with it?
Matt: "Well, it's put us in a better position."
Laura: Right. But now that the Sky-walkers have already been torn down, do you want to keep the dragon in charge?
Matt: "We owe the dragon for the freedom that he gave us."
Laura: So you serve one.
Matt: "For the time."
Laura: And he doesn't punish you at all? He's a good master?
Matt: "Those who deserve punishment get it. But we hunt with it. It brings us power. It promises expansion of the Ravenites, and we will no longer live under the boot of those in this countryside and this continent."
Liam: How's it going?
Laura: Really bad.
Matt: "We have children to feed. We have families of our own."
Laura: How can we help?
Matt: "How can you help?"
Laura: That's what we're here for.
Matt: "Bring us food, bring us warmth, chop some firewood. Bring some trees. Work."
Laura: Gladly. But not in chains. We do this freely.
Matt: "Give us your weapons, and you can walk freely."
Sam: Let's kill them all.
Laura: I'm sorry, that's not happening.
Matt: "Then leave."
Laura: That we will.
Matt: "What is your business here, she who wanders in the faces of others?"
Marisha: That's a cool title.
Laura: Yeah, add that to the list. Our entire landscape is under attack. Now, Vorugal has helped you, but they've made many others suffer, not just Draconians. Entire cities brought down, for nothing. We're here to right the wrong and help in any way we can.
Matt: "You should talk to Tooma."
Laura: Tooma.
Marisha: Tooma. It is not a tumor.
Laura: We knew that was going to happen.
Liam: Took about 1.5 seconds to fuck with Matt's name.
Taliesin: I think he assumed.
Matt: All you're doing is putting fuel on the fire. (groaning)
Sam: Is it Tooma?
Matt: Tooma. T-O-O-M-A.
Liam: That's totally different.
Laura: Who is Tooma?
Matt: "Tooma is our chieftain. I'm not to make this decision. Come. No chains, for now." They all stay with their spears still out in front, but they nudge you forward.
Laura: I explain everything that's happening in Common as we walk. Is everyone still cool with this? We're going to the chieftain.
Sam: Just tell us when it's time to kill everybody.
Liam: We improvise. It's what we do.
Taliesin: I think this is actually going far better than I had hoped.
Sam: Just remember Vex, ticking time bomb here. We've got to get in, get out. We've got one day here.
Travis: Are there any trees that we can see as we're walking?
Laura: They actually said they wanted us to chop firewood, so if we can get sent on that mission, we're set.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: Hey, 19!
Laura: Are we in the mountains? No. Are we?
Liam: 29.
Matt: You're in a ravine. Perception check was just for Grog, as he's the only one that asked to look for trees. But you rolled a 19?
Travis: I did!
Matt: Looking around, occasionally poking out of the rubble, you'll see a tree. Most of them seem to have not fared so well with the cold weather and have been snapped or broken in the process of the falling rubble. You do make out, towards the edge on the other side of the ravine, beyond this giant one, you can see this one island, one larger island of the cluster that made up Draconia, fell in the center here and is broken apart. On the far end, you can see there's a small cluster of trees, the hint of green still to them, some of them varying thickness.
Marisha: I could work with that.
Travis: Might be a long way, though.
Liam: We've been here, what, ten minutes?
Matt: I'd say about 20.
Sam: So we're going to go see Tooma, or we're going to chop down some fucking trees?
Laura: We have to go. They're walking us to the chieftain. Can't just walk away now.
Matt: You guys are prodded along, over the rubble, and as you come around you can start to see, where the outside of the island is broken rock, the center of it is broken structures. Buildings, homes, giant great marble halls, everything is mostly fallen in. You still see some structures standing, but at odd angles. There are sections of buildings that still show the outer outline of what once stood, but it is all a complete ruin. You do see every now and then a few large spikes of ice that are jutting out of portions, and you see bodies that are jabbed onto the spikes and left to freeze.
Laura: Do they have tails?
Matt: They do. You move over the bulk of this giant pile of rubble and begin to descend the other side, and you can see now there is an active village here that is half-frozen entirely. Half of it seems to be abandoned; the other half of it is completely coated in solid ice. The crowd leads you past that abandoned village to a series of tunnels against the wall, maybe 300 or 400 feet past that cluster of trees that you saw. Leads you into this tunnel, and on the inside, there are small glow stones set in portions of the stone. Not naturally forming, but essentially small natural bits of torchlight just pressed into the stonework to give some sort of a light source. You're led in for about five or so minutes. and you see other offshoot tunnels. It's like a giant anthill weaved throughout this, and you can see rudimentary furniture made of wood and stone, with limestone rock, whatever's available within the actual ravine here.
Marisha: Can I get a sense on when this was carved? If this was carved recently or if this has been here a while?
Matt: Make a nature check.
Marisha: Ooh, 27.
Matt: Best you can tell from looking at the rock and knowing the amount of erosion versus the curvature of it, these tunnels have been here for a very long time. This portion opens up and you can see now there is a much more refined, village-type structure inside, maybe 30-plus small homes carved from rock and stone. Built much better than the makeshift huts that you saw outside. You also see a giant pile of broken chains to the left side of the entryway. Many of them are manacles and neck vices that are just thrown and discarded in this large pile.
Marisha: Tiberius never mentioned this side of Draconia.
Matt: As you are brought into the center of this larger chamber you see two dozen Draconians that are out and about just currently gathering materials, talking and walking, and stop and see as you enter and just watch as you pass by. Colors range from metallic to chromatic, all spectrum; it's a mish-mash of all walks and sizes.
Liam: And the chromatic-- the red, the blue, the green-- are we seeing tails on them?
Matt: Nope.
Marisha: No tails.
Laura: Nobody has tails down here.
Sam: I could make us all Draconian again without tails.
Laura: That would probably work at this point, right?
Matt: You're led past a couple of these stone structures and there is a central, open circular plot between a lot of these. There's a fountain that seems to spring a very clean source of water within the center of this chamber. Beyond that, there is a larger temple-like square structure that has a slight trapezoidal appearance to it. The entranceway is an open arch, and you can see a large fire burning on the inside of it. You are led around the fountain and led to the inside. There, sitting on a large stone seat made of haphazard bits of rock and stone, it looks relatively uncomfortable, a large stone throne, there is a female dragonborn. She wears long, drab, gray robes, tattered at the edges, a hood loosely pulled back and a large scarf or wrap around her neck and shoulders. She just sits there with her hands over the side, draped, and as you walk in and your eyes adjust you can see that she looks very old. As you're brought in, the rest of your crew still pushes you in with the spears. She leans forward. "Are these prisoners of ours?" The dragonborn who brought you in goes, "They are, for the time being. They say they come here because the Frigid Doom and other dragons who came are killing their people, as well. They have come to fight the dragon, or so they claim. They walked in under guise of our enemy. It is your wisdom to make these choices." And the larger dragonborn bows his head and steps away, the spears pull back and they step, blocking the exits that you walked through; the entire archway now is shoulder to shoulder dragonborn with spears at the ready.
Laura: Tooma. We apologize for coming in the guise of your enemies. Unfortunately, we don't know much about your culture, and no one ever informed us of what you have suffered, and we apologize.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Laura: 23?
Matt: You're saying this in Draconic, I assume? She leans in a bit, and the firelight crackles under her chin, and you can see the teeth on one side pull out beyond the lip, and it gives her this lopsided look. The tongue wipes across the front, and she leans in toward you. "You come here to fight the Frigid Doom, you say?"
Laura: Yes.
Matt: "I would be lying if I said it did not bring a chance for freedom to all of us Ravenites."
Laura: Much deserved.
Matt: "But as time progresses, I fear we shake one bond to step into another. The dragon presented itself as our savior, but has since required an ever-growing fealty."
Laura: They do that.
Matt: "Without the Draconians, without the Sky-walkers, and without the Doom, we would be free. Rebuild our culture."
Laura: I want nothing more for you than that. Let us help you.
Matt: Now, the rest of you hear this  "Do your friends speak Common?"
Taliesin: Oh, that's lovely.
Marisha: Hi!
Sam: Hi, yes.
Laura: Much relieved. Yes, they do.
Sam: Grog doesn't, but we do.
Travis: (moans) (laughter)
Matt: "If we are to let you go, do you promise to slay this creature?"
Laura: We will do everything in our power to watch it die.
Liam: It is our only purpose.
Matt: "It has been gone for days."
Laura: It should be back very soon.
Matt: "Took most of its army with it."
Sam: Grog was right! He's always right!
Taliesin: That was our hope, that we would be able to come here when it was at its weakest and get a sense of it.
Sam: Do you know where its lair is?
Matt: "I do."
Sam: Is it far?
Matt: "It is not far, but one hour walk."
Laura: Can I roll an insight check on her?
Matt: You may.
Laura: 19.
Matt: 19?
Sam: (gasps) Oh boy.
Taliesin: Do you know what I like as much as whispers? Loot Crate.
Sam: What? Taliesin. You've got to do better than that. Try something like this: You know, Matt's an asshole, but you know who's not? The good people at Loot Crate.
Taliesin: Loot Crate doesn't decide to just tell one person about what's going on. They let everyone know, not just Vex.
Sam: Hey, you never told us what he whispered to you before.
Matt: No, he didn't.
Liam: We're good.
Sam: Oh boy.
Liam: I'm a vampire. Just deal with it.
Matt: "If you come here to kill this dragon, I assume you have the means and a plan."
Sam: We definitely have plans.
Marisha: Totally have a plan.
Matt: "Then let us set an ambush."
Sam: Ambush? Sorry?
Marisha: Come again?
Laura: Well, we tried to do that one other time. While it did pay off, and its brother is dead, a lot of people died in the process. A lot. Very large, strong people.
Matt: "So what do you insist? We not have an ambush, we just wait for it to land and attack head-on?"
Sam: We were going to use this opportunity to find our way into its lair and find its weaknesses, and plan.
Marisha: Sabotage, from the inside.
Taliesin: There's more than one dragon, and they are supporting each other.
Marisha: We kill this one, it'll set off a chain reaction that we might not be able to recover from if we're not fully prepared.
Taliesin: We want to make the means to make sure that when the time comes, we can destroy them all in one fell swoop.
Laura: The risk here is that by destroying Vorugal--
Sam: The Frigid Doom.
Laura: We'll bring the wrath of the others upon you.
Taliesin: He is not the strongest.
Laura: Thordak is much larger, and I don't think he's been here.
Matt: "You speak with accents I do not understand. Where do you come from?"
Taliesin: Everywhere.
Marisha: We're a motley crew.
Laura: Lots of different places.
Travis: Do not answer that question.
Taliesin: We can answer the continent.
Laura: As you can see, we're half-elves.
Matt: "We are to walk to the den. We are to learn your information. Then what?"
Taliesin: Set up a situation where we can monitor you and possibly contact you when it's time, and even let you know if we think the dragon's about to leave, so that you can prepare.
Matt: "I have lived to see this day by not being deceived or tricked. You speak words that are not direct. They wind. They spin. They circle. What guarantee do I have that you will not just flee?"
Marisha: To be fair, what guarantee do we have that you won't kill us, and the ambush was meant for us? I believe there is untrust on both sides.
Matt: At which point, she steps off of the throne, steps on both of her feet, and when she's off the throne, her imposing form becomes far less imposing. You can see now there's a very heavy hunch to her back, and as she scuffles forward, she's an almost pitiful-looking sight, physically. As she pulls forward to walk straight to you, Keyleth, you see the somewhat clouded, cataract-ridden eyes of the dragonborn female Tooma. She comes up to you and goes, "We are a proud people, even when pressed into the dirt for as many years as we have been. We reclaim our honor. We reclaim our place in this world. We wish to do this as peacefully as possible, but we have been forced to scrounge and survive through this freedom. We wish you no folly. We wish you no ill will. But we also have learned that trust needs to be earned; it cannot be spoken and given so freely. Both ways. You are right to mistrust, as are we of you. But that is the impasse. One must have faith, in one way or another, if there is to be a compromise."
Marisha: I think faith and trust are not mutually exclusive. I can not trust you and still have faith, and you should not feel lack of pride for living in the dirt, or surviving. There's nothing wrong with that. But I understand your urge to want to rebuild, become the great culture that I know you all are. So you should at least trust that we have similar interests in the end.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Marisha: Ooh! 19!
Sam: Was that opal?
Taliesin: Yes, it was.
Marisha: Opal's back! 25.
Matt: 25. She reaches forward and extends a finger that gently scrapes the bottom of the chin, not too much to hurt, but to go across the skin and pull your chin upward into the light of the fire a little bit. "There is much wisdom in there for so young a face. All right. There are not many options we have, either. Come. We will walk. And at the very least, if you decide to flee, never return."
Marisha: We can give you that word.
Laura: Tooma. Are the Frigid Doom's armies around? Will they see us?
Matt: "There are a handful of dregs that stayed behind, but you tell me you wear many faces."
Laura: We certainly don't want them to see ours.
Sam: What should we disguise ourselves as?
Matt: She points past, over your head, and goes, "Tiny gnome, the faces of those that lead you here."
Sam: Okay, tiny is uncalled for, but I understand. The faces of your tribe, of your clan. All right.
Matt: "Be glad you walk with one as wise."
Marisha: Is she talking about me? That's awesome!
Matt: She begins to shuffle over, and you watch as two of the dragonborn walk over and scoop her up shoulder to shoulder, and she shrugs them off and pushes them away. "I can walk myself." She begins shuffling, and they separate and open. She walks partway out as you guys stand there, and turns around and beckons. "Well, come."
Travis: We follow.
Laura: Can you cast Seeming again?
Sam: I can do Seeming one more time. All right.
Laura: Wait, if you cast Seeming, will we still be able to get into the--
Sam: We've still got the mansion. Handicaps me a bit, but I will cast Seeming again on the party and do the same thing, except slightly different colors and slightly less tail. (laughter)
Matt: The larger dragonborn that let you in--
Sam: My tail nub is slightly larger than the rest. It's a cube. It's a tail cube.
Matt: As the rest of the guards circle around and begin to walk, a little bit of trepidation, but going along with Tooma, the large one who let you in goes, "Tooma. Are you certain?" She turns around and goes, "Skork, there are few things that are certain in this world. I am not long for it, but if we are not to seize the opportunity of kinship, we miss the opportunity for survival. Is it a risk? Yes. Sometimes it's a risk worth taking." And she keeps walking. The rest of them gather behind, and the now-named Skork gives a nod and continues walking along.
Sam: Have we heard of Skork?
Marisha: Is that his name?
Laura: He was the guy that we talked to right when we got here.
Matt: Yeah. You guys are led out of the tunnel, back into the freezing air. The wind has picked up a bit, and you can now hear this low hum as it hits certain portions of the cavern and causes low vibrational whistles in the distance. The snow has begun to fall a little heavier now, and as you walk out, you can hear the crunch of your footsteps as you're stepping through heavier and heavier blankets of snow.
Laura: Can I tell Tooma, as we walk out  P.S., if that dragon comes back, we need to bolt.
Matt: She nods. "If that dragon comes back, we never saw you, you never saw us."
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: She's very slow, by the way. Your passage of travel is about half speed as she leads the charge, but everyone respectfully keeps in pace with her.
Sam: Tooma, have you ever heard of a dragonborn named Gern Blanston?
Matt: She thinks for a second. "That name has not come to my mind, no."
Sam: Us neither.
Matt: Pushing on, it's gotten a little lighter in the sky. You figure, based on your arrival, you may have just come in at the cusp of dawn, and the sun has now gotten higher in the sky. You're on the entire opposite side of the planet now, so the cycle has changed based on the location you're currently in. Well, you had rested, actually. You left in the morning. You would've gotten here-- actually, opposite of that. It's actually now getting to dusk. Even though it's only been a couple of hours of daylight that you've seen since you woke up this morning, it's already beginning to set, and the sky is getting darker.
Laura: We lost a day, but the dragon will still take the same amount of time.
Liam: Ugh. I'm so tree-lagged, though.
Marisha: I know. Always sucks going west to east.
Matt: You're led over a portion of the ravine, ever so slowly, that lifts up, and then as you get to the crest, it bends down into a far deeper and wider portion of the ravine. This is now the center part of this entire giant physical anomaly that is this giant crack in the ground, and you can see the bulk of the fallen city is in the center of this area.
Laura: Do we see any big trees around here?
Matt: You see a couple of larger trees that sprout out from the rubble. There's ones that managed to survive the impact of certain areas of stone, though it looks like a lot of the bark has been stripped, and they might not be alive that you can see from this distance. There are smaller trees towards the edge, and a few still protruding from portions of the walls.
Sam: Note every tree as we walk by.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm paying attention to the trees. That's the biggest tree that's now closest to us. Now that's the biggest tree that's now closest to us. Now that one.
Matt: As you're led down into the ravine, you reach this central structure, and you can already see from this distance, as the snow falls, hitting and covering the rocks, there are dozens and dozens of those spikes of ice jutting out of the rock, each with one or two various frozen corpses impaled on them and left. At the top of this, you can see a large cluster of ice that is in a somewhat round gathering, and you can see-- actually, no, you don't see that. Sorry. A note that will come into play in the future.
Travis: Can I ask a question? The bodies on the spikes. None of them look familiar, right?
Matt: You can keep watch as you go. You push towards the center of the ravine, and upon the large island of rubble, you begin to move, and it takes a good 40, 50 minutes, an hour, to traverse, a lot further than you would've expected in that time period. Sorry, a lot less than you figured you would traverse in that time, being weighed down by Tooma's gait. However, the rubble begins to subside, and you begin to see steps of ice. Not perfect, carved steps, but elements of encapsulated broken platforms of ice that act as stairs. Vax, Vex, and Keyleth, as you guys begin to move up the steps, and you especially, Vex, you can see, with what little bit of light is beginning to shine down through the ice, you can see mounds and mounds of coins and jewel boxes and many expensive knick-knacks and collections, all below feet of solid ice, all clustered towards the apex of this collapsed, ruined island.
Laura: Tooma, is Vorugal having you collect all of this?
Matt: "Vorugal sends us to pay the debt we owe for being freed, yes. We scavenge. We spend our days searching for food, for the means to survive, and finding what we can from the ruins of the broken Draconia."
Laura: And when you can't find anything? What then?
Matt: "These are the thoughts that consume me. It is the reason you are still alive." Everyone make a perception check.
Sam: Yeah, dog! 14!
Marisha: 28.
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Sam: That wasn't the golden snitch?
Taliesin: No, I put the golden snitch away for the evening.
Laura: I got a natural 20 when I dropped it. Giving up on it.
Matt: As you guys begin to approach, you can see now the ice that encases the golden coins begins to ripple upward, and it's getting harder and harder to climb. You can see now, it comes to an apex in this bowl-like formation, and as you get to a point where it's harder to ascend, you can see Tooma stops and sees that she can't go much further, and she points up and goes, "That is where it sleeps. That is where we come to give what we find. And that is where it should fall."
Laura: What is its nature? Is it vain? Does it want you to bow before it?
Matt: "It does not ask for kneeling. It asks for fear and respect. It asks us to bring the most powerful creatures in the land for it to chase."
Laura: Can I roll an insight check on her again? Jesus. This is creepy. 27.
Matt: 27.
Liam: So the box is full of loot?
Sam: No, it's a crate, Liam.
Liam: The crate is full of boxes?
Sam: Yes. A crate full of boxes. Box Crate, our best sponsor. Inside the boxes are tinier boxes.
Liam: When do you get to the loot, though?
Sam: No, it's a Russian nesting doll of boxes and crates.
Liam: Box-box.
Sam: Box-box, and then inside is a box-crate, and inside that is tiny-bag-crate.
Laura: What are you guys talking about?
Sam: Liam! Do you want all those boxes?
Liam: I need boxes.
Sam: You get $3 off the first box of boxes. Crate-crate.
Matt: All right. So. "This is its home. This is its shrine."
Laura: Check for fucking traps before we go in there.
Sam: Is it up? Is it down? Is it through?
Matt: The top comes into this giant bowl, this platform of ice, and it's almost like a nest where it sits.
Travis: A big icy dog bed.
Sam: By the way, we've been in dragons' lairs before, and the lairs themselves do things, right?
Liam: Yes, with the dragon in them.
Sam: But when the dragon's not in them they don't do anything?
Liam: My sister and I are going to have a look around. I have a question for you, though. If we make a stand here today, in theory, is it worth it to you to stand with us?
Matt: "If you feel confident. Otherwise, we walk to our death prematurely."
Laura: Yeah, let's not do that today. This is reconnaissance.
Taliesin: If all goes well, we will have one more conversation.
Liam: All right. I'm going to start searching the ground for traps.
Taliesin: I do have one other question  The bodies on the spikes. How did that happen? What was that?
Matt: "When the islands fell, there was a great fight of those that survived against the dragon. We did not join in, out of fear, and out of not knowing which side would come out. Vorugal stayed behind as the other two flew. The dragon asked us why we do not fight. We said, 'Because it is not 'our place.' The dragon said, 'Well, your place is now that of free kin.' The dragon summoned forth these spikes, and drove it through the hearts of many of the Sky-walkers. Many of us cheered, for it was a symbol that many had wished to see for a long time, but at the same time, the older ones of us... It was not what we wanted. It was not how we wished to be freed. But we had no way of stopping him. As time went on, and with each surviving Sky-walker that was found, there were no more cheers. Just the dread of knowing that maybe in time, when all the spikes are filled, it may be us on them next."
Taliesin: Thank you.
Liam: 29. Looking for any traps.
Matt: Okay. You spend the next 15 minutes or so, 20 minutes, skirting around the outside of this large frozen bowl, looking for some semblance of a set trap. You don't recognize anything as any sort of mechanism placed that would set off your warning defense systems as a rogue.
Laura: Can I stand on the top and look out from the platform and see what is visible from the platform and what areas seem hidden in the landscape?
Taliesin: I'm going to join you on that.
Matt: Both of you guys roll perception checks.
Sam: I have an idea.
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Marisha: Natural fucking 20.
Laura: I don't even need to look. Good.
Taliesin: You both saw that, right? That just fucking happened. This is not my normal die. This is something I bought at Comic Con.
Matt: Oh, it's not the dice anymore. We know that you've somehow gained the favor of some Aztec deity that's trying to reclaim its foothold in the current-day pantheon through you.
Taliesin: Sumerian, you asshole.
Matt: It would be Sumerian.
Taliesin: I'm bringing a shrine to Burning Man, by the way.
Laura: Oh, this is pertaining to dragons!
Matt: No, this is more of an icy terrain. Nevertheless, between the two of you keeping an eye out, through this Marduk Enki-loving fool over here--
Taliesin: Bless you for knowing a Sumerian deity.
Matt: You look off and see that most of it, and its design here is to be a sentry point. The reason it's built over the structure is it has a view of the entirety of this central open valley in the ravine. There are nooks and crannies. There are elements of ice that can be carved away. There are small alcoves that could be out of sight, lower beyond the ice steps and such, but there is no extremely visible pockets or things that are completely out of the visual sight from that perch. It was designed specifically to be a place to survey everything.
Taliesin: Are there other perches?
Matt: From what you can see here? There are outcroppings of stone and elements that jut out naturally from the valley wall, but it's a wide berth from each side.
Taliesin: Does this seem like the only thing, or would there be other sentry points, as well?
Matt: If flown to and held in, yeah. There are a couple of other rock areas where the dragon would be able to hold himself, but this is definitively--
Liam: Is this the highest?
Matt: Which one?
Liam: The highest.
Travis: The highest point.
Taliesin: So we have a really good vantage right now.
Matt: From here, yeah. This is the highest point in the ravine.
Taliesin: Do we see the orb? Do we see an orb?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Sam: Can I help?
Laura: We're all looking.
Taliesin: There we go. See? That wasn't great.
Sam: 28.
Taliesin: 11.
Liam: 17.
Laura: 16.
Travis: Nine!
Matt: You guys take a while glancing about. Nothing. Scanlan, you dart down and begin peering up against the ice walls that surround it. Going down into the actual scooping bowl of this dragon nest, and looking down, you can see a little glimmer of light that refracts at a different angle than the rest of the ice. A spherical surface is visible about two and a half feet below.
Sam: Okay. Do we smash it? Do we use it to make a crank call? What do we do with it? Steal it?
Laura: They'll be able to scry on us for sure if we steal it. They see us. The minute we looked into Brimscythe's.
Sam: I could do a Vorugal voice and say  Thordak, you're a cock!
Taliesin: We don't actually know his voice.
Sam: I could say  Thordak, I'm in desperate need of pay!
Laura: Do you speak dragon?
Sam: I guess you'll have to do that. What do we do? Do we break it so he can't communicate with the outside? That way when we kill him, he can't call for help.
Travis: If we do, then we violate what we said we were going to do.
Sam: What did we say we would to do? I have a great idea for how to kill this fucker.
Laura: You have a great idea of how to kill it?
Sam: Well, I have an idea. Tooma told us that they bring animals to hunt. We could be one of those animals and draw it to a certain spot.
Taliesin: And draw it to a certain spot?
Sam: Where we kill it.
Taliesin: With our...
Sam: With our army of fucking Draconians and our ice thing that we've shaped into some sort of a trap.
Taliesin: I get a distinct impression that it is not impressed by ice.
Sam: Fire trap. Rock trap.
Matt: And you're saying this out loud amongst the crew, right?
Sam: Just us.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Oh shit.
Marisha: The ears have walls.
Laura: And also, you're right in front of the scrying circle.
Liam: It's buried by ice.
Marisha: It's buried by ice, but that doesn't mean it doesn't work.
Matt: As soon as you called them Draconians, there were a few hisses from the nearby crew.
Marisha: The Ravenites.
Taliesin: Do they speak Common?
Liam: Some of them do. We spoke to them in Common.
Laura: We spoke to Tooma in Common.
Taliesin: Let's make a plan.
Sam: I just did. I made a plan. It's an ambush plan.
Taliesin: Okay, and then we go home and the dragons are at war. Then what?
Sam: What do you mean, the dragons are at war? There's only two more dragons at that point. We killed three-fifths of them.
Laura: If we attack one dragon, we start the war. That is something we've been told over and over.
Sam: What does that even mean? We've already attacked two dragons. There's been no war.
Laura: Once one more is dead, they'll probably all attack.
Sam: Attack what?
Liam: They'll stop playing nice. They'll start destroying.
Sam: We have to kill them at some point.
Taliesin: Yes, and now is not that point.
Laura: The greatest plan we have is what Grog came up with, which is pitting them against each other.
Sam: All right, so how do we use this orb to do that right now?
Marisha: Do we have to use the orb?
Sam: That's why we came here!
Laura: We came here to find out what its lair looked like.
Taliesin: What we are going to need is we need to sneak you in there, and we need you to take a movement.
Sam: What does that mean?
Liam: A poo, Scanlan.
Sam: I can't do it anymore.
Laura: What?!
Liam: What?!
Sam: I used my last magic poo to look at my daughter.
Liam: What a sentence! What a sentence.
Laura: In every aspect, Scanlan, disgusting.
Matt: That's the next t-shirt.
Travis: That's amazing. I used my last magic poo to look at my daughter!
Sam: I need to know where she is. I need to know she's okay. Gilmore can maybe make me some more potion, but I haven't wanted to bother him about it because he's busy keeping a shield around Whitestone.
Laura: Don't!
Sam: Shit.
Laura: You didn't say that out loud. You did not just say that out loud.
Sam: I said it in an accent.
Matt: That was out loud.
Marisha: All right. Hang on. Let's think about this for a minute.
Laura: Can we just step away from the orb while we talk?
Marisha: Yeah, let's do that.
Taliesin: We're not near the orb. We're near the Draconians, aren't we?
Travis: Ravenites.
Marisha: Ravenites.
Matt: They're still all gathered around the base. They walked you here and they're basically watching you set up for this ambush preparation or gathering. They're not going to leave you to your own devices. They're still not quite sure of everything.
Laura: Can we sketch what it looks like? I think you should sketch, Percy.
Sam: We need to use this opportunity. We're never going to be in this dragon's lair again! This is it. Crack the thing. Set a trap. Burn it down.
Travis: I have a suggestion.
Sam: Yes, Grog, you're the best.
Travis: The white dragon is primal, right? He likes to hunt creatures. We've got to go now. We leave. We leave them alone. That way we're not in danger, they're not in danger. We promise to come back, not only with forces to help remove the white dragon, but also with something for it to hunt. That way we're not fighting it in its fucking lair.
Taliesin: We know a lot already.
Sam: I can pretend to be a beast.
Taliesin: Scanlan, why would you bother to pretend to be a beast? If he just finds you, he'll hunt you and kill you.
Travis: We know that there are people that will work with us. We know what the terrain looks like. We know what his lair looks like, which we don't want to be in when we fight him. And we know how to get him out of it, possibly. It's a pretty successful trip.
Liam: One possibility is we could come back with Galdric, and he and I could play bait.
Sam: Galdric is the wolf, right?
Liam: He's a big fucking wolf.
Taliesin: We've made allies. We've got a look at everything. We know the terrain, and we know the political terrain.
Laura: Maybe Urukat would want to come and fight a dragon.
Marisha: He might.
Taliesin: I will also add that we can leave them with something.
Marisha: That's what I was thinking. Maybe this isn't about destroying something. Maybe it's about planting something. If we destroy anything, the dragon's going to immediately blame the locals.
Laura: What would we leave? I don't want them able to scry on us.
Travis: How about a little wine?
Taliesin: How about a small grove of trees?
Marisha: I could leave trees.
Travis: They did want trees.
Laura: I could leave trees, too.
Marisha: We also have this Scrying Eye. Can I use this remotely?
Matt: No, you have to have it in your hands to utilize it.
Taliesin: It's all right.
Travis: I like the tree idea.
Laura: Tooma, just in case something happens and a big red dragon comes to pick a fight, everyone hide. Get out of the way.
Matt: "I appreciate the advice. I can guarantee you there would be no other course of action."
Sam: Can we carve in the lair "Thordak was here" or something?
Liam: They'll know it was you.
Laura: I think we got the information--
Travis: Tooma. Forgive me, I'm not the best speaker, but we have learned from fighting these dragons that if we fight them in their lair, we are at a severe disadvantage.
Matt: "Then get it from its lair."
Travis: We are of a mind on that.
Laura: What kind of creatures do you offer to it for hunt?
Matt: "It is growing bored with dire beasts. We've even brought it to the ocean, where there were some great terrors beneath the sea, but it tore them asunder. There are, northward, large segmented insect-like creatures they call the remorhaz. That was a scuffle, but I fear the dragon grows bored."
Sam: Got to go find us a beast and bring it here.
Taliesin: No, I've got a better idea.
Liam: Spit it out.
Taliesin: Once we've gathered some resources, when we return, we prepare to attack post-hunt. Once it has exhausted itself on something large and angry, that is when we strike the dragon.
Laura: How will we be able to communicate with them, for them to let us know?
Sam: We'll be here the whole time.
Taliesin: When we come back, we stay until it's time. When we come back, it is to end this.
Liam: For now, we leave a back-door entrance.
Taliesin: With the trees, we will know how to return quickly with a force.
Marisha: This might be something we go to the Slayer's Take for. They always have a roster of big beasts.
Taliesin: With a little bit of information, we could even keep them informed of things for it to kill that they may find around here, with the Slayer's Take's help. We can keep you in supply of things to amuse it.
Matt: "I trust you know what you say. These words mean nothing to me."
Taliesin: We are sorry that this cannot end as quickly as would be agreeable. We can do our best to help make you comfortable, and if you need some proof of the power that we wield, we can offer a token. I have a thought. But if you wish, a token of our power.
Matt: "How about this. I trust you to return. Let's set a time, so we know where the limits are. Eight days."
Marisha: Wow. That's soon.
Taliesin: We can send a beast before, perhaps, but our travel is long. We may need more time. We have two more continents.
Matt: "How much time do you need?"
Laura: Two weeks.
Taliesin: Two weeks.
Matt: "Two weeks?"
Taliesin: Continents. Further than you have walked in your life. We move quickly, but there is only so much that can be done.
Matt: "Two weeks. 14 sun cycles past. If we do not hear from you, the Frigid Doom is known to this Whitestone you speak."
Laura: Fucking shit balls, Scanlan.
Liam: They're extorting us.
Matt: "Not extorting. Making sure you are of your word, because otherwise you leave us here to die on promises that are fake and false."
Liam: To-may-to, to-mah-to.
Laura: We don't do that.
Matt: "Good. Then we'll see you before two weeks is out."
Laura: Yep.
Marisha: I will leave you with a parting gift. I will leave you with a grove of trees that should be ever-growing and present.
Laura: If you do that, he'll know something is different.
Marisha: He will.
Taliesin: No. We plant one tree.
Marisha: One?
Taliesin: No, we have to plant some trees. Find a place that is secret.
Marisha: I can plant these trees anywhere. Just need solid ground.
Travis: If you can get away from the city--
Marisha: I can possibly do it subterranean.
Matt: "There is solid ground here. Up there, above the ravine, wherever else you need it to be."
Marisha: Where does the dragon not tread? Where do you know he will not see the trees?
Matt: "Probably out of the ravine. He stalks inside quite extensively."
Taliesin: Let's find a place. This will be where we leave, anyway.
Sam: Tooma. I have one more question about Gern Blanston. I raise the hand cone, and I cast Modify Memory on her.
Travis: Oh no. Oh jeez. Oh man, I love it.
Liam: Look at Matt's face.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: We're about to get attacked.
Taliesin: No, we're about to run.
Liam: Can I roll my initiative in advance?
Matt: There we go. All right, what's the DC?
Sam: 21.
Matt: What are you trying to do?
Sam: I'm trying to change the moment that I said "Whitestone" into "Emon."
Matt: You watch as she leans in, and she shakes her head for a minute and goes, "What was your question? I do not know these words you speak."
Sam: Candles. Have you ever met a candle-maker?
Matt: "I know not of a candle-maker."
Taliesin: I do have a request on our way out.
Matt: "What is your request?"
Taliesin: Would the dragon notice if any of these bodies were disturbed?
Matt: "Many, yes. But small amounts... why? If you wish to take what they have, they mean nothing to us. One or two turned over will make no difference to the dragon."
Taliesin: Pull that one down, then.
Matt: "Right." She points to it. Some of the Ravenites come over and haul one of the corpses off of the spike. It breaks off and snaps, and they bring it and throw it to the ground and step back.
Taliesin: Thank you. (sighs) It is exactly what I expect, I would assume.
Matt: The robes are familiar. The scale color is familiar.
Taliesin: I look it over. I check.
Matt: There, locked in the moments of valiant defense of his city, frozen and lost, the remains of Tiberius Stormwind, left a hero defending his people, defaced by Vorugal the Frigid Doom.
Taliesin: Let's bring him inside, at least.
Travis: Yeah. I go and I gather the remains.
Matt: They are stiff and frozen, but light enough for you to carry.
Liam: Where are we taking him?
Taliesin: I don't know. The remnants of the library, perhaps. The ground's too hard to bury.
Marisha: We can't even pretend like he was our friend.
Taliesin: No. We absolutely cannot.
Travis: I have a horrible thought. If we move him, will the dragon know we were here?
Sam: Was he on one of those stakes?
Taliesin: He was. No, I checked. Unless he's very clever and very keen, and I don't think they are. I think that if they knew, he would be in a more exalted position of defacement. I think this is just slaughter. Things vanish. I'm all right with making this vanish. That's as much of a calling card as I feel we need to leave.
Travis: Where should we bring him?
Sam: His home doesn't really exist anymore.
Marisha: His home was with us.
Laura: Back to Emon.
Taliesin: I have a thought.
Liam: To our keep. It was very important to him.
Sam: This is his place.
Taliesin: We're not bringing him to us. We're leaving him here, but we're putting him somewhere appropriate.
Liam: We'd take him away. Can you melt ice and snow, and we'll lay him here?
Taliesin: Put him with the books.
Laura: He always loved them.
Sam: For now, anyway. And then when we free this place, we can find a proper tomb for him.
Travis: We take him back to where the frozen books lay.
Matt: You find the remnants of the library. As you find a section of the stone rubble that's loose enough, you pull it open, and there beneath, you can see there are hundreds and hundreds of books, many still pristine, if a little soggy from the melted snow. You gather a lot of time was spent in this library in his youth, and it's probably as good a place as any to leave his memory for the time.
Laura: Are any of the Ravenites around us, or are we alone?
Matt: They're keeping their distance, but they're watching. You get the sense that they understand what's going on, but they're not taking any offense to it.
Taliesin: This will do.
Liam: I start pulling books out.
Marisha: I start melting ice.
Laura: Is Lockheed still on my shoulder?
Matt: Lockheed is still on your shoulder.
Laura: I bring him down so he can say goodbye.
Matt: As the ice melts, color comes to the body. You can see the tattered robes that show a fierce battle was fought. Regardless of this condition of finding him, knowing him as well as you did, he still probably left a hero. As you lay him down on the books, mostly thawed now, Lockheed finds a moment of recognition and immediately flutters onto his chest and curls up, mews a bit, nibbles at the chin.
Liam: I'm going to sit three or four feet away from him, facing him, and start privately thanking the Raven Queen for ushering him on.
Travis: I'm going to take a chalice out of the bag of holding, and I begin to fill it with ale, and then remember he preferred water, and I take the alchemy jug and I pour fresh water into the chalice and lay it with him.
Marisha: I take and I rip off a piece of his robes. Tuck it away.
Taliesin: Can you seal it?
Matt: As you guys step back, the nearby stone clatters to life.
Laura: I get Lockheed out of there. I don't want him to stay in. Do you want to come?
Matt: Lockheed resists and resists and doesn't want to leave.
Laura: In Draconic I say  It's all right.
Matt: Lockheed curls up onto his face and nibbles a bit on the forehead, then turns back and flutters up onto your shoulder. The stonework clatters closed over the top of the rubble of the library.
Marisha: Keyleth drops to her knees and starts crying.
Matt: Vax. In this moment of sadness, there is a bit of warmth, as you sense, though remote as it is through the Divine Gate, the Raven Queen's assurance that his spirit has made it to the other side.
Laura: I put my hand on Keyleth's shoulder. He loved you well, princess.
Marisha: He was so stupid.
Liam: He meant well.
Taliesin: I'm going to find Tooma. Is she behind us?
Marisha: He should have never left our side.
Taliesin: Hopefully, this war will go on schedule. But there's our promise. That's the best you're going to get. I head out.
Marisha: I follow Percy.
Sam: I turn around and say  Goodbye, old friend. We'll come back and we'll fix this. Because this is... poppycock.
Matt: As you gather yourselves up, here amongst the ruins of Draconia, the last of the sky's light, the sun has faded and the night has taken its form. You hear the distant caws of the evening birds as they begin to take to the skies above the ravine. Tooma and the rest of the Ravenites give a nod as you join hands. Keyleth?
Marisha: Let's go home.
Taliesin: Yes, let's. There's much to do.
Marisha: Back to Whitestone.
Laura: Were you going to leave a tree?
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: We let them know where the grove would be found, before we left them.
Marisha: I do Plant Growth. Make a big old tree.
Matt: All righty. Where do you create the tree?
Marisha: Wherever we decided it was best to create the tree.
Laura: Outside of the ravine.
Taliesin: At the top. A little grove of trees.
Matt: Which, with a simple use of the broom or wild shape, you can make your way up there, find a small patch of bushes, create a single tree that didn't exist there previously, a small sapling now grown to full height. The bastion of a promise to be kept. Keyleth returns. You take hands. You step through the nearest tree as the portal opens, and find yourself emerging from the other side of the Sun Tree, back in Whitestone.
Marisha: I give the Sun Tree a little pat.
Matt: The morning sun begins to rise.
Taliesin: We'll report what we've seen. We'll try to gain our bearings again, get sleep tonight. We'll report what we've seen in the new room. No one else. And we will never utter this city's name outside these walls again.
Sam: Totally. Dick move.
Matt: You find yourselves to rest, keeping memories fresh untill sleep takes you.
Marisha: Knock on Vax's door.
Sam: Oh god.
Matt: All right. As everyone else is going to rest, Keyleth, you find your way to Vax's door.
Marisha: Can I stay with you tonight?
Liam: I don't fuck anything up with words, and I open the door.
Sam: What?
Liam: I'm not going to fuck it up by saying anything. I open the door.
Marisha: I just go in.
Matt: Whether or not you are taking the time to sleep or ruminate on the events, as it's only been half a day since last you woke up, you take some time with Lockheed. He eats a little more food and leaps to the window of your room, and then takes off over the rest of Whitestone. You process this time, this moment, this memory, and realize how much has been lost through this journey, but yet how much is worth saving. How much is worth fighting for. And then, as much as you bunch of fuck-up misfits that came together as friends years ago have come to a point of understanding your true worth and what the importance is of really standing up for the things that you believe in in this world, and the people that need protecting, and know that the next step of your journey should come soon. Whether you stand or fall, this is the fight that needs to be fought. And with luck be at your side, that terrible fucking dragon will meet its end soon enough. And with that we'll pick up next week on Thursday.
Taliesin: Glad we decided to take a light-hearted game.
Sam: It's a fun romp after the Feywild, a fun romp.
Liam: Bar hop! Bar crawl!
Marisha: I need a stiff drink.
Matt: I was simultaneously looking forward to and not looking forward to the return to Draconia for that reason.
Laura: Man.
Matt: We'll pick it up next week, guys.
Marisha: Yay.
Matt: I'm sorry. Sorry, guys. Sorry to you.
Laura: Thanks, Loot Crate.
Sam: $3 discount.
Travis: Pour one out for Tibs. We will be.
Matt: Not all narrative is bright, but it has its purpose.
Sam: We're next. (laughter)
Matt: We love you guys. Thank you for sticking through us for an emotionally draining evening. We'll be back next Thursday to see the next length of Vox Machina's journey. Is it Thursday yet? Good night.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Sound: [no audio]
Liam: I said a bad word. I got the soap.
Matt: That's called karma. First and foremost, we're going to get through our announcements for the evening so we can hop into the game. First off, tonight's awesome sponsor returning to us is Backblaze.
Sam: Yeah, are we good, guys? Are we good? What's going on over there? There's lots of people pulling out their hair.
Offscreen: I think we're having sound issues.
Matt: Okay. Hold on just a second.
Sam: A lot of people doing this. (panicked sounds)
Travis: Out of sync, is what they're saying.
Offscreen: All right, Twitch has sound.
Sam: Twitch has sound? We're good to go?
Matt: All righty. So Sam.
Sam: Hi. You know, Backblaze is one of our top two favorite sponsors. (laughter)
Sam: We love them to death. They love us. They are Critters. In fact, coming up later, you should tune in to the break to see their newest ad. It's made for Critters by a Critter. Backblaze is unlimited cloud backup for Macs and PCs for just five dollars a month. I actually use it. All my shit's backed up. Tonight, I prepared a word game for all of you to compete. You have to buzz in. You have to give me the answer. I can give you two clues, like two words, and you buzz in and tell me what the words are. Here's a hint. Here's a clue: all the answers are the same. Okay, so like, for instance, if I were to say, the rear part of your chest and what a fire does--
Laura: Backblaze.
Sam: Backblaze, that's right. One point for Laura. Okay. Here the game begins. The opposite color of white, and the topmost part of a helicopter.
Travis: Black blades! (laughter)
Sam: Classical composer Johann Sebastian, and a hairstyle made popular by Pippi Longstocking.
Laura: Bach braids!
Sam: Laura Bailey. Two points.
Marisha: Is there a buzzer system?
Sam: You just have to say it. Pages of paper bound together and a climbing or rappel technique.
Travis: Binder rappel!
Laura: Brad! No.
Travis: Book rappel. Book belay. Book belay! (laughs) I'm the smartest man alive!
Sam: Is it two-to-two right now?
Laura: I thought pages binded together. I was going to say brad.
Sam: Okay, this is not a real game. I invented this on the drive over! Okay, one more. You know what? You guys aren't playing anymore. This is between Laura and Travis. You know what? I'm going to do two more, just because I love them. Popular Ben Folds Five song, and the abrasive sound a donkey makes.
Liam: Brick bray!
Sam: Brick bray, yes! One more. One more. To get stoned and to get stoned. It's bake blaze. Anyway, Bakeblaze is an unlimited cloud backup for Macs and PCs. It can backup fanart, fanfic, music, photos, videos, drawings, documents, all of your data. You can restore by mail. If you crash, they'll send you a hard drive. It's amazing. Go to backblaze.com/criticalrole. (cheering)
Matt: Thank you, Bakeblaze, for your sponsorship. All right. Let me get through the next few announcements really quick, then. You guys got to see a video before this that Geek and Sundry put together. It was a fun weekend shoot to talk about the game Masquerada. I talked about it in previous episodes, but it's an awesome PC RPG. I am so in love with the process of us putting this together. It's a great story, fantastic cast, incredible writing, and very much hearkens to the isometric, Baldur's Gate, Planescape Torment-style RPG format of the early 2000s. I highly recommend it. You should check it out. I think it's in Steam now, and hope you like it. Next up, my first episode of the new GM Tips series is out today. It goes a little behind my screen, and gives some ideas as to how you can set up your own GM circumstance and experience. Mind you, most of it's just fluff. You don't need any of that to run a game. You can just have books, dice, paper, and pens, and you're good to go. But these are just suggestions and an example of the things that I do to run my game smoothly, and you should check it out if you'd like it. New episodes will be coming out every Wednesday on Alpha, I suppose, and then on Thursdays coming out on YouTube and the website proper.
Travis: Is it pronounced GM tips, or gmmm tips?
Matt: Gmmm tips. They are now. It is now Matthew Mercer's Gmmm Tips. Thank you, Travis. Disadvantage. (laughter)
Matt: So check that out. Also, my last announcement for me. There's a project up on Kickstarter right now called Open Legend RPG. It's a cool new RPG system. Both myself and Ed Greenwood, the creator of Faerun and the Forgotten Realms, are contributing to this project. It looks pretty cool, people involved are really nice, and go ahead and check it out, see if it's your jam. And if it is, you should go ahead and help support it, so check it out. It's Open Legend RPG. That's all my announcements. Does anybody else have anything they want to talk about?
Laura: What about our Halloween costume competition?
Sam: Oh, yeah!
Laura: I've been seeing some of them. It's Critical Costumes, is the hashtag, right?
Sam: #CriticalCostumes. You explained the competition?
Laura: Yeah. Next week, I think, is where we're stopping. Halloween will be the last day?
Marisha: On Halloween.
Laura: Halloween's the last day to submit, and then we're all just going to look at all your costumes and just decide who we like.
Marisha: I will say I had a cat dress up as my character, so the bar is pretty high.
Laura: I saw a really amazing Vex today. I'm just saying, I may be biased.
Sam: So just to be clear, the winners are not going to be announced next week. It's the week after.
Matt: No, the week after. The first Thursday of November, we'll be announcing the winners.
Sam: We don't know what the prizes are. But it will include my shirts.
Liam: Your sweaty shirts.
Laura: But not that shirt.
Sam: Yeah, this is my shirt. Forever.
Matt: One of these days, you're going to wake up, put a shirt on, and the universe is going to fold in on you. I'm excited. All righty. Anything else? All right, then. That being the case, let's go ahead and dive down into tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Marisha: --balanced breakfast!
Matt: Welcome back, everyone. I just physically ordered the other torch, so that'll be fixed soon. Because sometimes you just got to do it yourself. Anyway, welcome back. So to continue from where we left off for tonight's episode of Critical Role, Vox Machina, our heroic players and characters, in fighting their way across the land of Tal'Dorei against the Chrome Conclave, a gathering of ancient chromatic dragons that have torn the current civilization asunder. They've gathered a number of artifacts of old called the Vestiges of Divergence and recently made allies with one of these dragons, Raishan, the green dragon of the conclave, apparently interested in revolting against the conclave's leader, Thordak the Cinder King. A tentative alliance has been forged and to prove both the stalwartness of that alliance, as well as to further your agenda against the conclave, you all traveled back to Wildemount, to the ruins of Draconia. With the help of the Ravenites you set a trap for Vorugal, the Frigid Doom. You summoned, using your single Gate scroll, from the Abyss, Yenk the Goristro, a great, powerful siege demon and caused it to battle with the white dragon. Partway through, the encounter got more intense, you all rushed into the fray. Got the crap kicked out of you in a lot of cases but when all was said and done, with the aid of Raishan, you felled Vorugal. The final shot being landed by Vex'ahlia herself.
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: You guys have now taken a moment. You've discussed with Raishan to meet back in Whitestone, after which she reverted form and vanished. And you've now begun to collect your spoils and gather what you can from the battlefield at this moment. So that's where we pick up this week. What would you like to do?
Liam: Man, we've gotta find Larkin.
Laura: Did you have dragon bits you wanted to gather?
Marisha: I did, very much so.
Taliesin: And some Yenk, I imagine.
Marisha: A little bit of Yenk, a little bit of dragon.
Laura: I got a little Yenk blood already.
Matt: You did.
Liam: Brazen, guys.
Matt: All right, so, you're heading to the dragon or Yenk first?
Marisha: Dragon.
Matt: Okay, so you head to the dragon. Okay. So you guys head over there. You now see partially elements of the wall that had crumbled in on Vorugal's body. You see now, emerging from the center of the scales in the chest as it lays on its back, slain, its throat torn out by Raishan, a piercing tree begins to burrow its way through the torso of the dragon and bloom outwards. Waiting for that process to finish, you bring out your carving dagger and--
Marisha: I patiently wait for the tree.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I don't want to interrupt. That's rude.
Matt: It grows pretty fast as part of the enchantment of Fenthras. So, that brief pause completed, you go to town with your blade on the dragon's corpse. Let's go ahead and make a check on this. This would be--
Marisha: Nature, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: With advantage. Oh, that's good. 28.
Matt: 28, okay. It'll take you the better part of about an hour to really harvest everything you want from this that's usable, and that's with aid from Scanlan, because it's a very big dragon, and that's a pretty small blade. So you begin that process.
Laura: I can help. I want to go up and carve a bear onto the tree growing out of Vorugal.
Taliesin: I may lend my cut-dragon-like-butter blade to this whole process.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Can I just pull off a scale? A single scale. Is that really hard to do?
Matt: Make a strength check.
Sam: Two.
Matt: You spend the next minute and a half going (grunting sounds). It's not budging.
Sam: It's actually three.
Matt: Oh, the next minute and 20 seconds going (grunting sounds).
Sam: Great.
Matt: You do manage to found a couple loose scales on the ground nearby after you've thoroughly embarrassed yourself.
Sam: I'll grab one and then I'll immediately start yelling for Tooma. (yelling) Tooma!
Matt: Okay, while he's doing that, what are you guys doing?
Travis: Right, so the dragon's got booty, right?
Laura: Yeah, like a lot.
Travis: So I look over and they're working on the dragon bits. Everything's cool? Yenk is like melting into the snow, right, because he's like a hell fiend or whatever?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: I take off running towards the lair.
Laura: Grog!
Sam: I'm going to go with.
Matt: Grog's already run off. Scanlan's following.
Sam: I'm going to Polymorph into an eagle.
Laura: Fucking fuck! Do you guys have this?
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: Give me a claw. I want a claw to wear around my neck.
Marisha: You're going to be like Mr. T.
Laura: I want something to wear around my neck. Fucking something, all right!
Taliesin: We'll find something.
Laura: I'll take off on the broom after Grog.
Liam: Just scooping up Pike into a bit of a piggy back ride and carrying her inside and we're going to rest.
Matt: Okay. She's thoroughly hurt, but you still have the entrance to the mansion. Yeah, so you guys pull into there to rest for the moment. While Grog, as you're running, this eagle comes up to your side, is gaining on you a bit. As you come over the top of this one little ridge area, as the ravine begins to widen and head towards the lair portion that Vorugal was using, you see before you a group of about 22 or so armored dragonborn that are currently jogging up the ramp in your direction. As soon as you cross over the top they come to a slower point, with their weapons out, and you see one of them raise its hand. You recognize Skork, who you met earlier, who goes, "We've come to aid you!"
Travis: I'm still raging using Persistent Rage and I point over my shoulder and yell, Dragon that way! And I keep running past them.
Matt: All right! They pick up their weapons and keep running past you as you [whoosh] through them, the eagle following closely after.
Sam: Is Tooma with them?
Matt: Tooma is not with them, no.
Laura: I followed too. I am following as well.
Matt: Yeah, you coast up behind, you begin catching up to Grog and the wayward eagle. You're the fastest of everything right now.
Sam: I'm following him.
Matt: So you're staying back at same speed. Okay. As you guys begin carving, you begin hearing the footsteps approaching of numerous dragonborn. The rest of you guys continue down the path. You see the icy throne, if you will, of where Vorugal had placed as the new lair on this northern portion of the ravine. You guys that are staying behind, as you're carving your way into the dragon, all of a sudden you hear the footsteps and a bunch of these dragonborn, armored, with scavenged pieces, leather hide with metallic bits of armor. Weapons, definitely not of the highest degree from what you can tell, though some are ornate and seemingly unused, maybe scavenged from the fall of Draconia. They approach and slow their jog and look over at the destroyed corpse of the dragon.
Marisha: Hi.
Taliesin: Things went well.
Marisha: Man, how long of a jog is that?
Matt: They all look confused at each other and start talking to each other in a language you don't understand.
Marisha: Man, ooh, Vex isn't here.
Taliesin: No. All good. Good.
Travis: Fuck.
Matt: They nod and Skork gives a respectful nod and they all approach the dragon's corpse and start hacking into it.
Marisha: Oh no, wait, no. Hold on.
Taliesin: No. I'm going to point at all-- you all, sun goes down, all of us drink back there. Go back. Everything's fine.
Matt: Skork takes two steps forward and goes, "I understand this speak."
Taliesin: Oh, why didn't you say something? You're standing there making us very nervous.
Matt: (disgruntled grunt) "Look. We have to come to aid you in the battle as promised. You have seemingly done well without our presence. So let's all harvest the uses of what remains of this beast."
Taliesin: I'm fair with that, all right. Harvest gently. We're trying to keep as much of it--
Marisha: Yes, I'm working right here on this area and Vex wants a claw.
Matt: "Take what you wish. We are interested in hide and meat."
Taliesin: And we are interested in scale, tooth, and claw, and maybe some eyeballs, so that works out very well.
Marisha: And blood.
Matt: "Perhaps some teeth and claws as well. We shall trade." (speaks Draconic) All of them rush up and start hacking into the soft portions of the underbelly, where it's been exposed from where you guys have left large wounds and such and basically start to carve huge bits of dragon meat off the body.
Taliesin: Mind the tree. Mind the tree.
Matt: One of them was going for the tree and stops like-- And then looks very confused that the tree wasn't piercing through the dragon, but was rooted inside of it. They all take a moment to start carving around it. It's a very awkward. They don't know what the hell happened and it looks very strange from an outsider's perspective, but they're trying to adjust best they can.
Travis: New town square will be built around it.
Matt: In the meantime, the three of you guys coast down towards the lair. You can still see all the ice spires that are jutting out from portions of the snow, the various dragonborn corpses still adorning a number of the spires. As you begin to approach the throne of Vorugal, you can see there's a group of about 15 or so dragonborn currently there that are starting to climb up and get to that portion to inspect. You see, first, before anyone else does, Vex, that one of them appears to be Tooma, who is walking with this gnarled staff that she keeps to her side. And they're all approaching and climbing up the sides of the throne to get to the top.
Laura: I shout out, don't go up there!
Matt: You shout that and there's a moment of pause. Then, all of them turn and look in your direction.
Laura: I fly down close to Tooma and say quietly, Thordak has means of seeing through the stones up there. If you go up top, it's possible he'll be able to know that Vorugal has fallen. He might already know.
Matt: "This is good to know." (speaks Draconic) And the dragonborn around slowly pull backwards. You understand her saying, "Hold off. Words of warning." They all pull back and gather around you, and stand, awaiting what this conversation is going to entail as Tooma steps forward to you. "So am I to understand, then, that the dragon has fallen?"
Laura: (laughing) Yes.
Sam: I'll drop my form and throw the scale in front of her. It's done. There's your fucking dragon.
Matt: She looks over at the rest of the people who are all looking towards her for confirmation. She goes, "You came to us with words. You stood behind them. You displayed honor and honesty, things we find rare in supply outside of our people. Us, the Ravenites, survivors of chain and frost, are now truly free. We thank you."
Laura: And we thank you.
Sam: But we'll need something more than just thanks. We have two requests to make of you. One, this is not the final fight. There will be more, and unlike this fight, we would expect your aid in the next one. Is that something you can guarantee us?
Matt: "I am curious as to what you require from us."
Sam: We don't know yet, but you have many men, and they seem like good fighters, so we may call upon you in the future.
Matt: "Against what foe?"
Laura: Thordak the Ancient. He was commander of all of these dragons.
Matt: You see her face immediately goes from that calm, welcoming, elated expression she had a moment ago to this guarded, retracted position where she shifts her weight onto the back leg and--
Laura: You are not beholden to us. We ask this of your own free will. All of Tal'Dorei is at risk.
Matt: "We are not an army. We wish to help in this fight, for we had a stake in it, both of us. This was a mutual arrangement. You owe us nothing. We owe you nothing. But we are not ready to continue the fight immediately with a more dangerous foe than this one."
Sam: Hopefully, it won't be immediately. And might I remind you that you did not help us in this fight. We did it all by ourselves.
Matt: "Who do you think arranged, through previous conversation, to send the dragon your way into the trap that you had sprung? At my suggestion of the place of proper, and most conventional and helpful circumstances?"
Laura: It's true, Scanlan, they did help a lot in that regard.
Matt: "We may not have the might to finish the dragon--"
Sam: You told us that you would have men there to help us, and there was nothing. We almost died.
Matt: "We sent men your way!"
Sam: You knew when the fight was.
Matt: "We knew when to begin the fight, but we do not have means of travelling as fast as a dragon!"
Travis: I'm running around like a cracked-out PCP addict in the background. Just looking on the ground for booty, that's all.
Matt: Perception check.
Travis: One. (laughter)
Matt: There is snow and ice and it's pissing you off!
Travis: I'm doing the dog thing.
Matt: More snow. More and more snow. In the middle of this conversation, some of it starts spattering the side of Vex. You're like, "Stop it!" Angrily rage-looting nothing. (laughs)
Laura: Draconia has had a history of separating itself from the rest of Tal'Dorei. This is an opportunity for you to welcome other communities, to become part of the rest of the world.
Matt: "You are right. [no audio] And from this, I think we could try to rebuild, a new home for the dragonborn of Wildemount. Learn from the mistakes of our predecessors and our oppressors. We are no majestic mage nation by any means, but we can learn."
Laura: You are strong.
Matt: "They are strong. My time is nearly up. But what time I have left, I fully intend to make sure that there is a future for my people. For the Ravenites."
Sam: One more request, before we go. Once we're long gone, you can feel free to inspect this hill where the dragon slept, and be very careful in disarming any traps that you might find there. I would ask you one favor for us: we lost a friend in this fight, a dragonborn. He's buried near here. We'll tell you where. We would like a proper tomb for him on this hill, where the dragon slept. Could you build a statue, a fine statue, a handsome statue of Tiberius Stormwind, and bury him underneath it. And on the pedestal, could you please write, "I encourage peace."
Matt: She looks over at one of the nearby dragonborn. "This is Korsa. He is our finest stonesmith. I will see to it that it is done."
Sam: Teach your people of him, your offspring, that he was a brave dragonborn that wanted to unify all of your peoples.
Matt: "This can be done. (sighs) This mound represents the spoils of the remains of Draconia the dragon greedily stole, hoarded, and forced us to gather at the base of its icy seat. This will be the beginning of our new nation, and with this, we will make sure this statue comes to bear."
Sam: Good luck.
Travis: Where the fuck is it?! That's all you hear me say. (laughter)
Sam: What are you looking for?
Travis: Help me look!
Sam: For what? What are we looking for?
Travis: Just dig! (laughter)
Travis: Can I make another perception check, please?
Matt: No.
Travis: No?!
Matt: You can, Scanlan.
Sam: What am I looking for? Grog, what am I looking for?
Travis: We're looking for that booty.
Sam: Booty? Just dragon booty? It would be up where the dragon sleeps, not down here.
Laura: There's some under the ice right here.
Sam: All right, I will peer down into the ice below us with my 21 perception.
Matt: Okay. You glance down, and after pushing some of the snow out of the way, it's amazing that Grog didn't see this at all, but not really when you think about it. Encased in this pedestal that Vorugal had taken as a perch, beneath multiple feet of thick, locked ice, you see an incredible amount of hoarded gold, silver, platinum glittering as bits of light break through the overhead clouds, as the sleet is still raining down in places. Bits of it gleam and shift and shimmer. You can see finely crafted knick-knacks and statues and gems and antiqued metals all buried deep beneath this platform. It looks to be pieces of ornate armor and weaponry, all sorts of a random assortment of items that are locked beneath feet of ice, right there before you.
Sam: Nothing there, Grog. Sorry.
Travis: No! It has to be here somewhere!
Sam: (whispering) Just look right there, friend.
Travis: What?
Sam: (whispering) Right there.
Travis: Where? What?
Sam: He's my BFF.
Travis: I see it?
Matt: Oh yeah, once he points it out, you immediately clarify and the red haze that was covering your eyes suddenly fades and you see shiny.
Travis: Can I use the siege portion of the Titanstone Knuckles and start smacking the shit out of this ice trying to get down there?
Matt: Yes, you can.
Travis: Just like (smashing noises).
Matt: Yeah. (laughs)
Travis: I deal double damage against objects or structures.
Matt: Yeah, and as you start, each punch, the ice (splintering noise) more cracks begin to spider out. An incredible feat of strength and you can see the dragonborn take a few steps back at this view, and Tooma is almost intrigued at this point, staring with this grin across her face as this symbolic destruction of what represented Vorugal's lording over their entire life is being ripped apart by this half-giant madman. A few more punches through and a whole portion slides off and you have to move out of the way. You knock it aside with your fist and keep punching through and eventually you get about, over the next ten or 15 minutes, breaking through enough of the ice that you start hitting (clanging), starting to hit the actual outskirts of this large pile of gold pieces.
Laura: Wait, Grog. Can I check for any traps or is it like totally fine? Because I've been here before and it's not pleasant.
Travis: I really wouldn't mind.
Laura: Investigation? 18?
Matt: Okay, glancing about best you can in the vicinity, you don't see any traps.
Laura: What about the gemstones? Those are up high. I'm staying away from those.
Sam: We're outside the perimeter of the gemstones or the the main portion of the lair, right?
Matt: Yeah, the orbs are embedded in the top restful area. The actual hoard is hidden, locked beneath the ice at the base of this large platform, so you're essentially punching through the bottom portion. Much like any sandcastle, the further you go, the less structural integrity it has. You're starting to make headway into releasing and finding access to some of the horde yourself.
Travis: We need heat, and more than my wee urine can generate.
Sam: I can give us a little bit of fire?
Travis: Yeah, I mean, or get Keyleth over here.
Laura: Do you have dragon's breath?
Matt: She points to two of them and brings them over and two of the dragonborn step forward and release this torrent of flame into the area that you've already carved out.
Sam: Ooh, they can do that?
Matt: Yeah, it only lasts a few seconds and it causes a portion of it to melt back, but it's still extremely strong ice and it didn't have as much of an impact as you hoped it would've. This is very, very sturdy white dragon-conjured, ice-protected walls.
Laura: Just keep on punching it, Grog.
Travis: Really?
Laura: Just punch it. You're doing some good damage.
Travis: But no fireballs?
Sam: I have a fireball. I'll send a fireball over there. Back up a little bit.
Travis: Why? What if I want to be close?
Sam: Well, you'll get burned.
Liam: You're way down by 101 hit points, though.
Travis: I know. Yeah, I'm still up in the three digits. Let's make it exciting.
Sam: I'm not going to burn you, Grog. Just take ten feet.
Travis: All right, all right! Ten feet!
Sam: All right, I'll send a wand of fireballs down. I don't know, is that magic actually hot when it goes off?
Matt: Yeah, it's hot and it's an explosion. It's not just fire. It's an explosion. So it detonates from the inside of that small concave path that you had punched through and as it hits and detonates you can see the ice further crack. The ice begins to crack even further and portions of it, you see a bit of snow bank that had gathered at the top shakes free and off the side, revealing some of the upper platform.
Sam: We don't want to make too much of a disturbance here.
Laura: No, we don't.
Sam: Let's just take some stuff on the outside.
Travis: Is there any free platinum or gold or little bits I can start to put in my hands?
Matt: Yeah, you can start scooping bits.
Laura: You might want to ask Tooma if she has a problem with you taking all of Draconia's gold.
Travis: You saw what his face did, didn't you? Tooma, we are about to unsheathe and reveal a great fortune, of which we have very little interest because honestly it weighs us down. We're, like, plenty loaded already. However, it is a tradition to take little bits here and there as keepsakes.
Matt: "The spoils here were largely collected from the wreckage of our captors and much of the gold here was earned through our blood and turmoil. However, we were able to free ourselves and have access to this fortune a great deal thanks to your aid. We are more than willing to divide this between your folk and ours."
Travis: That sounds most generous. Shall we look for specifically interesting little bits, or just grab the platinum?
Sam: Just grab whatever's closest and leave.
Travis: Are there any interesting-looking weapons or unique items that are out of the ordinary?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: Any looking-magically thingies?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: Yes! Minus two. 17.
Sam: I will look for weapons of any sort. Ooh, 30. Investigation, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: 16.
Matt: (laughing) Do you want to add your bardic inspiration dice to that to be a dick?
Laura: Inspire me!
Sam: Did you suck or something?
Laura: Yeah, I only got 16.
Sam: Okay, I will add my bardic inspiration. I will sing to her. (singing) Something in the way I wink, inspires you like no other gnome can. Something makes you stop and think, how did he get so handsome? How did he get so suave?
Laura: Six extra points, so 22.
Matt: All right, there you go. Now Critical Role owes a royalty to the Beatles. All right, so, Grog, you find a painted gold war mask that looks really cool and nasty with the lower jaw. You're like, yes and you can put it on.
Travis: Yep, in fact, I lick it knowing that it's cold and I stick it to my face.
Matt: Okay. Your tongue sticks to the mask.
Travis: Fuck! And I rip it off.
Matt: You rip it off, all right. You take a point of damage. And your tongue is pounding with pain (throbbing) as the top layer of skin has been torn off your tongue. But the mask is still yours. You do also find a really beautiful black stone. It's really well cut and it's about that big and it's really pretty and dark and awesome.
Travis: I love stones. I'm a fucking fan.
Matt: And a whole shitton of gold and platinum. You, looking through, you find a beautiful reddish ruby gem that has this slightly gold refraction in the center of it that's somewhat symmetrical, it looks otherworldly almost. It's beautiful. You see deeper within the actual hoard a ship's mast that was plated with gold that has been jammed in the center of the hoard, wreckage that was dragged here and included in the hoard. You do also see, amongst some of the gold, a small vial with liquid that is unaffected by the freezing temperatures around it.
Laura: What color is the liquid?
Matt: The liquid is-- let me look that up.
Travis: This is my favourite part, getting new shit.
Matt: It is like a thick syrupy metallic, like a liquid iron, a reddish metallic tint to it.
Travis: I had an idea until reddish, but I don't know anymore.
Matt: And you find a pair of boots that are made from a very thick, dark brown hide.
Laura: Another boots of haste! For sure!
Travis: They're probably like elephant strength boots.
Laura: Definitely boots of haste! Pair of boots out of brown leather, you said?
Matt: Yeah, a dark brown leather, not very elaborate in their design, but they're well made and seemingly have braved the cold weather well enough.
Taliesin: They're Boots of Taste that you have.
Travis: I appreciate well-made boots.
Liam: They're Uggs.
Taliesin: They're Uggs.
Travis: Do we have an approximation of the gold and platinum?
Matt: We'll get to that in a second. Sam!
Sam: I'm sorry, who?
Matt: Scanlan.
Sam: Thank you.
Liam: Whoa! What just happened?
Matt: You find amongst this a platinum bracelet set with a gorgeous sapphire that looks like it's probably worth quite a bit. You also find another unbroken vial amongst a series of other vials that did break in the process of being hoarded here, the liquid spilled out. There's one unbroken vial. This one is a yellowish fluid with black swirls that shift on their own inside the vial's contents. As you shake it, you see they move at a faster speed and then slow down in a reverse direction. It's a very interesting pattern.
Taliesin: Lava lamp.
Matt: Kind of. Underneath that vial, you see a very beautiful--
Laura: Ooh, sheets of paper!
Travis: I love this shit. It's like walking into a Toys 'R' Us. It's the fucking best. It's like, "Which way do I go?!"
Liam: Find the Plate of the Dawnmartyr.
Sam: That was easy!
Matt: There you go! You find a gold and platinum band that is two separate bands that are woven together like a braid in a band.
Sam: Like a back braid?
Matt: Kind of. Other than that, it looks nice. There's no other defining markings on it. Looks like it would be worth quite a bit. You do, also, as you rolled ridiculously high, in pulling the ring out and the vial, you glance over and a handle is embedded in a large part of the gold. You go and grab it and it's actually a pretty big handle once you get your gnomish hand on it. You pull and you pull forth a very beautiful platinum greatsword. It has a series of small symbols carved along the base of the blade on each side. The handle comes a gradual upward curve. It looks beautiful, ornamental, like something you'd see in a temple as part of a centerpiece. But it's weighted properly for a greatsword and is far too big for you to ever possibly muster in battle.
Sam: I can't use this, so I'll just leave it.
Travis: Wait! Let's not be hasty! My god, it's beautiful!
Sam: Do you want it?
Travis: I'm very emotional about this right now. Can I check it for traps?
Sam: Check it for traps.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: Natural 20!
Laura: It is a natural 20, oh my god.
Matt: You have never been so sure in your life that this sword: totally not trapped.
Taliesin: I'm so hoping it talks to you now, I'm so hoping it starts talking to you.
Travis: 'Tis clean.
Sam: 'Tis clean?
Travis: Yes.
Sam: You hold it, I can't hold it, it's too heavy. It weighs as much as I do.
Laura: How's it feel, Grog?
Travis: Feels like money, money, money.
Laura: Speaking of money, money, money.
Matt: As you begin pulling out these materials, a series of the other Ravenites start gathering gold, filling sacks and having to pass them off. You see now two of them are pulling two big carts over and are loading up cash in the area. This is going to push your bag of holding.
Travis: That's why I said we can't take that much.
Laura: But if it's platinum, it'll help.
Marisha: More bang for our buck.
Sam: What can we lose from the bag of holding?
Travis: I'm very emotional about some of this.
Matt: You get about 20 minutes of gathering gold and platinum pieces from the section you have access to. You could get more, if you continue to dig beneath, probably. You manage to pull roughly, between the three of you, 18,000 gold pieces and about 12,000 platinum pieces. (yelling)
Travis: Forget the dragons, let's go buy real estate.
Matt: That's a third of what's in the hoard right now.
Liam: Park Place, motherfucker!
Travis: Build a fucking water park, let's go!
Laura: We don't need any more than-- This is really nice.
Taliesin: Let's build a condominium.
Liam: Condos in Marquet.
Marisha: Parking garage, that's where it's at.
Laura: How many gold is a platinum?
Matt: For the gold to platinum transition here--
Travis: It's a lot. Scrooge McDuck over here is fucking swimming in that shit.
Sam: With Brexit, it's not worth as much any more.
Matt: Ten gold pieces per platinum.
Laura: How many?
Sam: Ten gold pieces per platinum. So that's another 120 grand. Grog. Vex. We don't need to tell the others about this
Laura: They don't need to know. No!
Sam: We could go to a warm place, the three of us, and live out the rest of our days.
Travis: We'll build a bank. It'll just be us.
Sam: They'll never find us. We have the Dust of Tracelessness.
Laura: I'm tempted. This is amazing.
Travis: Right. We kill Vex after the first month.
Laura: Wait, I can hear you.
Travis: I was joking.
Sam: We might need her to restart civilization.
Travis: True, true.
Laura: Oh, you know what? Let's go back. You lost me. I'm out. (laughter)
Liam: Meanwhile, for the last twenty minutes, I've been combing blood out of Pike's hair, and we've been having god talk, and as I put little fun buns in Pike's hair I say, "You know, sometimes I feel like she is right there with me. I ask questions and I know the answers, but most of the time I don't know anything. Does the balance ever shift?"
Matt: "No, not really. It's part of what's great about it, is you put your trust into them and everything turns out okay."
Liam: That is so cool.
Matt: "You saw her, she punched a dragon for me!"
Liam: We've got to find Larkin though, what do we do about Larkin?
Laura: Okay, all right.
Liam: You're not here!
Matt: "I didn't like Larkin very much. It's probably for the best."
Liam: Aye, but he's out here on his own in the cold. Ravenites everywhere!
Matt: "Dwarves are made of hardy stuff, I'm sure he'll be okay."
Liam: You're probably right. Let me even you off.
Matt: (pained) "Thank you."
Marisha: What did we find? (laughter)
Sam: Ten dragon scales, the end.
Matt: All right, come back to you guys. So Vorugal is butchered in the center of the snow here. Strangely, as you begin to carve, the air, as freezing as it is, actual touch on the skin of Vorugal is colder, and there's a few moments where your fingers begin to adhere to the cold and you have to pull back a bit. But you do manage to carve from the hide, if you can carry it properly, about 150 pounds of dragon hide.
Marisha: Oh jeez. Oh boy.
Laura: How much?
Taliesin: 150 pounds.
Laura: We got 40 pounds of black dragonhide in the Bag of Holding.
Marisha: Well we now apparently have 150 pounds.
Taliesin: We're going to have to fill the Whitestone coffers with some of this stuff when we get back.
Sam: Grog is dumping stuff out of our Bag of Holding.
Travis: So one black studded dwarven armor suit, because Pike's the only one that wears full armor. There's another full set of regular plate armor. That's going too. There's a totally decomposed orc head. A brain chunk, two dark elf heads, one random arm, a piece of bulette armor.
Liam: That shit has been festering for months!
Travis: Twelve beef jerky strips are going.
Taliesin: I was saving that!
Matt: As you're doing this, Tooma is watching you, going--
Travis: By the way, this is totally up for grabs, anytime you want. You say something to me and we'll work it out.
Matt: (speaks Draconic) Another dragonborn walks over and picks up the beef jerky strips, hands them to Tooma, and Tooma keeps watching you all, chewing on one.
Liam: They're starving.
Travis: Those are super fresh. (laughter)
Travis: I'm throwing out a greatsword and replacing the platinum greatsword in its spot so that should make enough weight out. Bye, black studded dwarven armor. That was the first thing in the bag of holding.
Sam: By the way, excellent note-taking and keeping track of what's been in the bag of holding.
Laura: Yeah, that's great.
Matt: Well done.
Travis: Half of that body part stuff came out as gelatinous poo.
Matt: Yeah, it's the gamiest of gamey meat you've ever touched.
Travis: Just strings of-- You pull it up and you got to wrap it up in the string and toss it.
Matt: It is why I love the word "slough." (disgusted groaning)
Matt: You guys pull away portions of that, Kima helping out where she can. The sweat beads on her forehead; even among the cold exterior, she's a workhorse. You also manage to pry from Vorugal's mouth 20 individual dragon teeth that are harvestable outside of the ones the other Ravenites take for themselves. You manage to get six dragon talons pulled from the whole body, and about-- let's see, with all the destruction of the outside, and there is this creeping ice that's beginning to freeze the body from the inside, post-death-- the hide includes the scales, you have to pull off the scales and destroy the hide, and any other organs? You said the eyes, you were thinking about taking?
Marisha: Blood. Eyes.
Matt: Do you have any more empty vials?
Taliesin: Empty vials? I'm out of vials.
Laura: Did you take any healing potions? If you did you'd have an empty healing potion vial.
Taliesin: In theory then, I have three empty vials because I did have three healing potions that I've used.
Matt: We'll say you go ahead and recork three vials of white dragon blood.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Matt: Anything else?
Marisha: No.
Taliesin: I'm going to go sit down for a little while, and breathe.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm going to go into the mansion as well.
Matt: Okay. So you guys go ahead and join Vax and Pike. Kima comes and joins you as well, to rest for a moment, while the rest of the Ravenites begin tearing off pieces of Vorugal's body, leaving the ribcage, the spine. They pull most of the organs out of it, but the tree itself is rooted into the ribcage and the roots reach down and burrow into the ground beneath it. It's left this really interesting sculpture that they've torn everything away from. At this point now, the Ravenites have descended upon the interior of the hoard, and they're hacking away at bits of ice to open up more of the space beneath, while keeping a very careful eye to make sure the structure remains intact. You guys have gathered what you decided to take from the hoard, and are doing what?
Travis: Scanlan. Vex. We should disable the orbs, right?
Laura: I don't know how to.
Travis: Just beat the shit out of them.
Sam: Wouldn't that alert Thordak?
Travis: We don't want to taunt him first?
Laura: I'd rather him not know, right now, that Vorugal's dead because--
Sam: He would instantly know that we're not in our home base, he could launch an attack on that place.
Laura: Yeah. Maybe let's not do that just yet.
Travis: But what if he comes here?
Laura: Well if he does, hopefully they'll be inside their caves? I don't think he's going to leave Emon to come check out what's going on with Vorugal, unless he knows that Vorugal's dead.
Travis: All right. Shall we check in with the other members first, before we biggity-bounce?
Laura: Well, let's go back to the mansion. Maybe we can destroy it on the way out, if we feel necessary.
Travis: What about that big golden mast? You think there's a golden ship under there?
Laura: What if there's a skyship in here?
Sam: I assume it wouldn't fly very well, but all right.
Laura: Maybe that's how the Ravenites can get to Emon, if they can help us?
Travis: It was made of gold, right?
Matt: Gold plating around it. There are portions of it where you can see the wooden mast with large bands of gold.
Laura: Did it look like airship or normal ship?
Matt: It was hard to tell. From what you could tell, it is a mast. The airships you've seen do not have masts, since they do not use the wind.
Laura: Oh, right.
Matt: So it was most likely a sea-faring ship, and was torn asunder, from a great distance and then dragged here as part of the hoard by Vorugal.
Sam: What are we going to do with a mast?
Laura: I have no idea. Maybe on the way out we can see if it's uncovered any more.
Sam: We'll stick a Google Maps pin here. We'll always know it's here, because when we come visit Tiberius' grave, we'll also leave some flowers and take a mast with us.
Laura: They've been working on this for a while now, is it possible to wiggle my way in and check out the mast now?
Matt: Sure, make an investigation check.
Laura: 22.
Matt: You push past some of the Ravenite workers, their shoulders don't give and you have to squeeze through. As you get there, the upper part is still locked in ice, and the lower part is locked in ice. For how much they've carved through already, is the central portion, but what you can see is a wooden mast with large, thick bands of gold around it that are ornamental. You can see within them carvings and designs of a language you don't really understand-- actually, what languages do you know?
Laura: Elvish, Common, Undercommon, Abyssal and Draconic.
Matt: You do not recognize this language, but it appears to be ornamental, and that whatever ship this belonged to was a prized ship of either a navy or merchant fleet. Based on some of the marks on it, it looks like it was grabbed and broken off a ship. Looking down below, there is a portion of a ship that is beneath it as well. Much deeper, maybe another 25 feet of solid ice below you with the rest of this hoard. There's a portion of this ship that was dragged here by Vorugal.
Laura: That's crazy. It's a ship! I'm coming back out.
Sam: All right. Let's go back to the main group and tell them what we've discovered.
Matt: As you're hustling your way up the ravine to the east, you pass by a number of Ravenites coming by with large sacks, and chunks of dragon meat draped over them. You can see the meat itself is freezing the air and shoulders of those that are carrying it. The essence of the dragon's ice-built form is causing them to constantly shift it because it's starting to stick to their armor, and you see icicles beginning to form at the outside of these large dragon-meat haunches that they're carrying.
Travis: When you dry-age meat like that, salt it first, then hang it. Just a pro tip.
Matt: (speaking Draconic). Keeps walking, doesn't seem to understand you.
Travis: Really bad sinus problems.
Matt: Eventually you make your way back to Scanlan's Magnificent Mansion and gather the rest of the party. Percy, Kima, Keyleth and Vax are all there, resting and eagerly awaiting your return.
Taliesin: I've got to try and fix my guns.
Matt: Okay, make some tinkering checks.
Taliesin: Is this a misfire check or a tinkering check, since I'm not in combat?
Matt: These are tinkering checks.
Taliesin: Okay, so it's proficiency bonus, dex roll. Ooh, 28!
Matt: That's your Animus?
Taliesin: Yep, that's fine.
Matt: I believe Bad News was also?
Taliesin: Yup. 26.
Matt: 26 is fine. You manage to get Bad News functioning again in the workshop below. And Retort was okay, right?
Taliesin: Yeah, Retort's fine.
Matt: So as you all return and gather around--
Marisha: Keyleth has laid out the Vorgual spoils like she got back from a yard sale.
Matt: Which, by the way, is a macabre view as you walk in, and there's this smear of dark purple dragon blood, and long, haphazardly carved chunks of dragon hide, almost like the preset green lawn rectangles that roll out and smeared across the center of the foyer.
Laura: I drop the Bag of Colding next to Keyleth.
Marisha: Grog, can you help me see how much we can shove in here?
Travis: Shit, yeah.
Marisha: Here, maybe like a sleeping bag, and I'll sit on it and you can wrap it up?
Travis: Yeah, good deal.
Marisha: Okay, we'll do that. Try and shove as much as we can. (squishing)
Matt: When it's finally wound up, it won't fit within the Bag of Colding. The Bag of Colding is the size of a relatively large satchel. The dragon hide, rolled up, is about that big around, what you managed to carve off.
Laura: Ah, shit. What do we do?
Liam: Can we make Percy some dragonborn armor right now, somehow, so he can be all white, all over?
Taliesin: Wow, that would be a thing, wouldn't it?
Travis: How much do you think that roll weighs?
Matt: About 150 pounds.
Laura: Oh jeez. We can't carry that.
Travis: I could drag it behind me for a little bit.
Liam: Scanlan, do you have a room here?
Sam: A room?
Liam: For cold things? You have everything here, do you have a chilly room?
Sam: Sure, in the kitchen there's a chilly room. The mansion will expire in 12 hours though.
Laura: We just got to go through the tree, yo. That's it.
Sam: We could bring it into the kitchen for now.
Travis: Can we get everything else into the Bag of Colding, besides the roll of hide?
Matt: The teeth and those things can be put in the Bag of Holding. The only thing that needs to be preserved is the hide, until it's treated.
Laura: What about the blood?
Matt: The blood's been capped. That should probably be put in there.
Marisha: Three vials of dragon blood in the Bag of Colding.
Matt: Yeah, mark three vials of white dragon blood in the Bag of Colding.
Marisha: And we have six talons.
Matt: The talons themselves are large claws that have been removed.
Marisha: Okay, so we have six talons, 20 teeth and 150 pounds of hide.
Matt: There you go.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Word.
Travis: We got so much bling. We're stupid rich.
Sam: A lot of things that we don't know what they are.
Liam: What's that mask?
Travis: I take the mask, and like Jim Carrey in The Mask, I stick it to my face and (yells).
Liam: Do you feel anything? What's it doing?
Matt: Okay, I need you to-- no, I'm kidding. (laughter)
Matt: It is chilly against your skin.
Travis: I feel like it's making me fall in love with the first person I look-- Vax!
Liam: Oh, you don't want to fuck with this. Are you sure?
Travis: No, you're right, I don't.
Liam: Maybe just a little bit. (laughter)
Travis: I take the mask off and put it in the bag of holding. But we got this! And I hold up the big-ass platinum greatsword.
Liam: Whoa.
Laura: Can anyone identify things in our group?
Taliesin: Do I recognize the text on it? Celestial?
Matt: Celestial, yes, you do.
Laura: Oh, you can read it!
Sam: When did you learn Celestial?
Taliesin: I was a very lonely child.
Liam: It's like Latin in the world of D&D.
Travis: It's like, covered with prunes, up and down the blade.
Liam: Priss, what's it say?
Laura: Are you calling him a priss?
Liam: (laughing) Yeah.
Matt: Looking across the symbols, they are specifically symbols speaking of creation, devotion, the power of a deity's love and the unity between god and creation. It is a very religious and holy text across the blade, both sides.
Taliesin: This is some sort of paladin sword. It's a holy weapon of some kind.
Laura: Oh, I bet Kima would want the shit out of that.
Travis: Oh yeah, is Kima here?
Matt: She's right now in the process, in the kitchen, of massaging some of the bruising and wounds she took from the battle.
Sam: Got some meat tenderizer on that?
Liam: Couple of chickens on it?
Travis: Stop what you're doing. I want you to get your hands on this big, beautiful bastard. And I hand her the greatsword.
Matt: "Where the heck did you get this?"
Travis: I could tell you, but I don't remember.
Matt: "Give me a little bit of time, I need to see if I can make this part of my communion. Hold on a second." And she walks away, staring at the blade. Without leaving her eyes from the scrolling on the side, walks quietly past all of you in the center of the foyer, sits down with it and starts meditating over the blade.
Travis: I walk over and go, "Before you hit anything with it, you come talk to--"
Matt: (shushing)
Travis: I leave.
Taliesin: Anything else interesting?
Laura: I found a jewel. It's red. It looks pretty neato.
Taliesin: How were the dragonborn about us taking some of their--
Laura: They were great about it actually, they were quite generous.
Taliesin: Anything else we should go back for, as well?
Travis: There was possibly a giant gold ship, underneath.
Taliesin: There was a what?
Sam: Gold mast, underneath the hoard. And also, much more gold and platinum that we can't possibly carry.
Laura: Wait, it had runes on it as well. Do they look similar to the runes that were on Greg-- Grog's sword?
Matt: No, the symbols on the side of weapon look like an ancient text, they're laid in a very ceremonial format. The text that you saw on the side of the mast looked more like an engraving.
Laura: Did it look fluid?
Matt: It was fluid.
Taliesin: There's a ship in the dragon's collection?
Laura: Yes. I don't know if it was an entire ship, but it was a ship.
Liam: So you didn't go in, you saw it?
Laura: Well I got down, but most of it was still frozen.
Taliesin: I think this would be a really good idea, before we left. If a dragon grabbed a ship, it was probably filled with something interesting. It got his attention and he kept it.
Marisha: It could take days to potentially melt the ice, right?
Taliesin: The ice is already melting.
Liam: Keek, you could probably melt your way in there in 24 hours.
Marisha: And I also have this. My new toy.
Laura: We should check that out before we go.
Sam: Are we in any danger staying here, leaving our special hidey place unprotected?
Taliesin: It's not like anyone can get in here.
Sam: No, I'm talking about your homeland. Leaving it unguarded.
Taliesin: It's as guarded as it's going to be right now.
Sam: We know that Raishan's out there, doing something.
Taliesin: She was doing something previously. I don't think that anything awful is going to happen.
Travis: I also took this little keepsake. I call it Stoneblack.
Sam: Because it's a black stone?
Travis: Well don't fucking break it down like that.
Laura: It's so neat.
Marisha: Does it look fancy? Is it magic?
Sam: Why don't you Detect Magic, whoever can Detect Magic?
Marisha: I can't. Wait, can I? No, I can't.
Sam: I can look at it and see if it looks magical.
Matt: Yeah, make an arcana check.
Sam: Ooh, 20!
Matt: It is not magical. However, your keen bardic eye, looking at the gem, it is a very rare gem. It is worth quite a bit.
Sam: Platinum zirconia.
Matt: It's actually a black sapphire, an extremely rare gem. It runs in the market anywhere between four to six thousand gold.
Travis: So anyway, I got rid of my old saltlick rock and now I've got Stoneblack here to take its place. Do you have a pet rock?
Sam: No.
Travis: Oh my god. I sleep with it, I put it under my back and it gets all the knots out.
Liam: That is the cutest.
Sam: Do you paint a face on it, or anything?
Marisha: I've actually had a lot of rocks that are friends.
Laura: Oh, that's great. You can make little clothes for it.
Marisha: Yeah, I didn't have a lot of friends growing up.
Travis: Sometimes I carry it in my armpit to keep it warm. You don't need to know about that.
Sam: That's very maternal.
Laura: Oh, and these boots!
Sam: Leather boots, could be anything.
Laura: Are they magic, Scanlan?
Sam: Oh sure, I'll look at those. Wow, 24! Arcana check, yeah?
Matt: Yeah. They're very simple leather boots, there's no real ornamentation beyond being functional boots. As you take a moment to look at them, there is a faint shimmer to the leather itself. When the light hits it, the brown gives way to a slight purplish undertone. It looks to have some sort of enchantment.
Laura: Does it seem evil or good?
Sam: I have no idea. However, they look fancy.
Taliesin: They are interesting, and I'm indifferent to such things.
Laura: I want to put one on.
Sam: Go ahead, put one on, what could happen? We're in a safe place.
Laura: I just want to see what it does.
Sam: Wait, what if it's single use only?
Travis: Well, now's a good time.
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: It's a boot, it's probably made for multiple uses.
Matt: You can take a short rest and take time with the item to figure out what it could do, if you want to.
Marisha: I attune to my staff.
Matt: Okay, so you attune to your staff. What are you unattuning from?
Marisha: Currently my Ring of Protection.
Laura: Oh, that's painful.
Sam: AC down!
Matt: So all your saves are down by two, your AC is down by two, for now. Good to know.
Sam: By the way, we have two unused Ring of Protections that we can trade for things. I have one that I haven't used in months.
Matt: Like Stone of Jordans now. It's the thing you trade. Props to you if you know what that reference was. What do you guys want to do? Do you want to take a short rest to try and figure things out?
All: Sure.
Matt: Kima's focusing on the sword, you're focusing on the boots.
Travis: I'm focusing on the war mask.
Matt: Who else is doing what?
Taliesin: Is there other things?
Laura: Here's a beautiful red gem. It looks special.
Taliesin: Does this actually look like a special gem?
Matt: Which gem is this?
Laura: The red beautiful gem you told me about.
Matt: Oh, the ruby. It looks very pretty.
Sam: I've got a vial with yellow and black swirly stuff in it.
Taliesin: That requires somebody who knows things.
Sam: I'll look at that.
Marisha: Can I do a check on the potion since I've got alchemy training?
Matt: You know what? Yeah, if you wanted to take a look.
Taliesin: There's some bracelets and such, I thought I'd take a look.
Sam: I have a gold and platinum band with braids.
Taliesin: Ah, I'll take a look at the back-blades.
Sam: The back-blades. That's nice.
Matt: So Keyleth was taking a look at the potions?
Laura: What about the bracelet, you also had a bracelet with a sapphire?
Sam: I just gave it to back-blades over here.
Laura: No, you had a ring and you had a bracelet.
Sam: I have a platinum bracelet which I assumed was just fancy and pretty. Here, look at that one too, Percy.
Taliesin: I think I can only handle one of these, but we'll find out what happens.
Matt: All right, so as you guys make a short rest. Keyleth, you identify both potions, one of which is a Potion of Speed.
Marisha: That's what I thought it was. The yellow one?
Matt: Yep. The other is a Potion of Invulnerability.
Sam: What does it do? Read it! Out loud, with your mouth.
Marisha: For one minute after you drink this potion, you have resistance to all damage.
Liam: God-mode!
Marisha: The potion's syrupy liquid looks like liquefied iron.
Travis: So you half all damage.
Matt: Half all damage for a minute.
Laura: That is so insane.
Marisha: And then Potion of Speed  when you drink this potion, you gain the effects of Haste spell for one minute.
Laura: I'm putting that in the party inventory.
Sam: No, no, no. Hand it out to somebody. Oh, that one should go in the party inventory.
Marisha: Which one, the Potion of Speed?
Laura: The Potion of Invulnerability, so we can decide later.
Liam: That's for a very special day.
Sam: Grog could take the speed.
Marisha: Yeah, do you want to take the speed potion, Grog?
Travis: Yeah, sure, I won't use it.
Marisha: Give the invulnerability to Laura.
Laura: Oh, thank you.
Matt: All right, the boots. To you, Vex.
Taliesin: So many things.
Laura: Is it Boots of Haste? (yells) Oh my god, this is so crazy, because I was about to learn a spell, for somebody, but these take care of that. These are Boots of Feral Leaping. When you wear these boots you can instill your leaps with incredible bursts of power! As a bonus action you can attempt to leap. Make a strength check with a DC of 16. If you are successful you leap either 15 feet vertically or 20 feet horizontally.
Sam: (meowing)
Travis: Do you have to attune to them?
Laura: It doesn't say!
Matt: Yeah, those aren't attunement. (cheering)
Laura: There you go Grog. You need those.
Travis: Does anyone want the Potion of Speed? I don't want it to be just my Christmas. That's amazing!
Sam: Anyone need the Potion of Speed?
Matt: If you fail the check though, you fall prone where you stand.
Laura: Oh, that's important.
Matt: Strength check, so you'll probably be okay.
Liam: Most of the time, but once in awhile--
Matt: Once in a while banana peel.
Laura: I have a question, because the spell that I was going to take, because I still have one spell that I haven't learned yet, is Jump, which triples your jump for one minute. So if I did that, would that triple that as well? Or would it just be Grog's normal jump?
Matt: That magic would override the spell, based on the enchantment. It's two different magical forces affecting the same thing. The Jump spell is part of the enchantment that boot was crafted around.
Laura: Oh, so that's perfect.
Matt: The platinum band is not magical.
Taliesin: Yay!
Matt: But it is worth quite a bit, actually. The platinum band is worth about 2500 gold.
Taliesin: That's a magic all its own.
Matt: And the ring, who had the ring?
Sam: I have a platinum bracelet?
Matt: The platinum bracelet was what he looked at right now. That's worth 2500.
Sam: Oh wait, the gold platinum band? The band was a ring? Got it.
Matt: You have the ring?
Sam: Yes I do. Oh, it's a thing! I'm stuck here. Oh god.
Travis: The cube shrinks to half its size.
Liam: A centimeter.
Sam: It's a Ring of Invisibility. While wearing this ring you can turn invisible as an action. Anything you are wearing or carrying is invisible with you. You remain invisible until the ring is removed, until you attack or cast a spell or until you get Backblaze. I don't need this.
Liam: Does it say attunement on it?
Matt: It does require attunement. It's a legendary item, meaning it's extremely rare. You know how you use a spell, and once you do something the spell's gone? That, while you're wearing it-- you can turn back invisible for another action. As many times as you want, for as long as you wear it. So situationally, it can be very useful, if you're trying to do infiltration or something.
Sam: You can pop out, cast a spell and pop back. But not a bonus action.
Matt: No. It's less of a combat benefit, necessarily, in some situations it may be.
Liam: Like going to a white dragon lair.
Marisha: Who wants to keep it?
Laura: Stealthy people need it, probably.
Matt: Kima is happy.
Travis: Kima is happy?
Matt: Kima is very happy.
Marisha: What'd she get?
Laura: Did you just give away something amazing?
Sam: We can always take it back.
Matt: As she stands up she takes the blade and swings it. It hits the ground, and when she hits you can see a spark of divine energy from the impact. She looks at her maul and goes, "Sorry, old friend. You'll find a good new home. But I'd say this Holy Avenger is going to do me quite well."
Marisha: What's it do, Kima?
Matt: To give you specifics, it requires attunement by a paladin.
Laura: Oh, so it has to be a paladin.
Matt: Only really Vax or her could attune to it. It's plus three bonus to attack and damage rolls. Hitting a fiend or undead, the creature takes an additional 2d10 radiant damage on every hit. While you hold the drawn sword, it creates an aura in a 10ft radius around you. You and all creatures friendly to you in the aura have advantage on saving throws against spells and magical effects.
Travis: Kima is now an associate member of Vox Machina.
Sam: Provisional.
Travis: Provisional, yeah. That's amazing. So the maul-- Kima, because I want to respect your weapon, what does the maul do?
Matt: "Oh, you want the maul?"
Travis: What? No, I'm just saying, what it does, or does it just beat the shit out of people beautifully by itself?
Matt: "It's my Holy Thunder Maul. It deals additional thunder damage when I hit something. That's about it."
Travis: Cool. You want me to hold onto it for you, or are you cool?
Matt: (thunk) I'm good for now.
Travis: Boss. Total boss moment.
Laura: She can do 100 push-ups.
Travis: That's true. Enjoy that.
Matt: "Oh, I shall."
Marisha: I run downstairs to the training area with my staff.
Travis: Anything from the war mask?
Matt: No, but it is worth 750 gold.
Laura: Whoa.
Travis: I'll unlock its secrets. Wear him down.
Sam: Well, if we're ever invited to a Masqueradé-- is that how you say it?
Matt: No, but continue please.
Taliesin: Paper faces on paradé.
Travis: Can I get a description of it?
Matt: Yeah, it resembles the Maori warrior masks with the big open mouth, the tongue sticking out, the two pronged teeth coming up from underneath. It's a war mask, it's meant to inspire fear and give you an ominous presence on the battlefield.
Sam: Is it platinum?
Matt: It's gold. Old, very old.
Sam: Does it go with his hat?
Matt: If you were to attach it some way, it would look very interesting.
Taliesin: Would you like me to attach the mask to your fine hat?
Liam: To the back of his head.
Laura: Ooh, to the back of it.
Liam: So they don't know if he's going or coming.
Taliesin: All right, bring it downstairs.
Marisha: They're both metal, right? I can help you by heating metal, actually.
Taliesin: Yeah, let's just do this.
Travis: Can you also put my title on the inside?
Taliesin: Your what?
Travis: My title.
Taliesin: Oh yes, of course.
Marisha: I'm going to go test this out, and I'll meet you in the workshop. I'll be right back.
Travis: Wait! Are you going downstairs?
Marisha: Yeah, I want to see what this does.
Travis: Can I come with you?
Taliesin: We're all going downstairs.
Marisha: It's a free mansion, man.
Liam: You want to have a drink with me?
Laura: Yeah, sure.
Matt: So while you guys go downstairs, you two are going to the dining area?
Laura: Is there a lounge in the mansion, is there a bar?
Sam: There's mostly lounges in the mansion.
Liam: Is there an aerated wine cellar? (laughter)
Sam: It's constantly aerating. (swirling)
Sam: Inside joke. I'm being teased right now for owning and using a wine aerator.
Travis: Whoever sold you that and said it was an aerator is laughing their happy asses off.
Sam: I appreciate fine things, and I'm not going to apologize for that.
Travis: Some guy broke that off of his kid's toys and was like "It's an aerator!"
Laura: So yes, that's where we'll go. We're going to go to the wine room.
Matt: All right, you guys find your way to the wine room. Scanlan, what are you doing?
Sam: A whole lot of nothing. I'll go down and watch the show, I guess. I'll watch the training show.
Matt: All right, you four head down to the training room. Kima comes down to watch as well. Pike comes down, eager to watch what this new artifact does. You head down to the training area. You have the big sandpit that's cordoned off with the wooden outskirts, you have the various dummies set up in certain ways, you have the portion of the room that has the armor stand on the side, the weapon stand. What do you want to do?
Marisha: Ooh-hoo. Okay. All right. Everyone stay back. I'm going to start by casting the lowest level of spell out of it, see what it does.
Matt: Which is?
Marisha: Apparently a Fireball.
Matt: Okay. At where?
Marisha: Whatever is further in the sandpit. I told everyone to stand back.
Matt: Everyone stays back. Furthest part of the sandpit is going to be one of the various combat dummies. So you launch-- put the staff down, you guys watch as in the centerpiece at the top, where that one gem is hovering and slowly rotating in place, the gem begins to glow bright red from its soft bluish-green composure. As it hits bright red, this beam of familiar red arcane energy streaks forward, hits it and detonates into a shaking explosion, destroying the wooden dummy and singeing the one immediately left to it.
Travis: Whoa. Cool.
Marisha: Did you see that, Grog?
Travis: Yeah. Really nice.
Marisha: That was awesome.
Travis: Was that the biggest thing it does?
Matt: So that's three charges off.
Laura: How many charges are there?
Marisha: 20, and they recharge at the top of a day. They recharge 1d6 plus four.
Laura: Oh. How many recharge a day?
Marisha: 1d6 plus four.
Travis: So five to ten. Five to eleven.
Marisha: Because I've been really excited about this one, I'm going to point at the other dummy and cast Chain Lightning.
Matt: Okay. As you do, you watch as this giant bolt of electrical energy arcs off the same place on the staff, hits the dummy and the dummy immediately bursts into flames from the energy hitting the wood, and then arcs off and hits the two others. Suddenly the dummies are partially blown apart on one side, the charred section slowly smoldering as smoke pours up, and you can see bits of the electrical energy going (crackling) through the remainder of the wooden dummy.
Marisha: Grog. Did you see that?
Travis: Holy shit. That was amazing. I kind of want to get out there for whatever you do next.
Marisha: Really?
Travis: Yeah, just to see how much damage it does. Wait, can you use this in Minxie form too?
Marisha: Hmm, I don't think so.
Travis: No, you think so, or you don't?
Marisha: I can try this though! Hang on, wait, that was five charges. No sorry, six charges. Burning through all the charges, but I don't care.
Travis: Do you have another one you want to do?
Marisha: Watch this Grog, watch this. I'm going to do Conjure Elemental.
Matt: Okay, and which elemental are you going to conjure?
Marisha: What elemental?
Travis: Earth, big!
Marisha: Earth!
Matt: You watch as she slams the staff in the ground and you feel this quaking, and the sandpit behind her begins to slowly billow and rise up. As the sand falls away from underneath, you see, standing behind and looming over Keyleth, this giant, cracked stone earth elemental, very much like the form she often takes, standing behind her. Its eyes flash up with a bright green glow and it sits there, awaiting her command.
Marisha: Then I do a bonus action and I also turn into an earth elemental.
Matt: That's right, because you got your forms back at a short rest.
Marisha: Yes I did.
Matt: So now she turns into the same form. There's now two elementals there.
Sam: Fight, fight, fight!
Marisha: Then we walk by and we Top Gun each other.
Matt: Each slam itself causes the air around to (cracking) like a small thunderwave in its own right.
Marisha: Then we both turn and look at Grog.
Travis: That was amazing.
Marisha: Then I punch Grog in the face!
Liam: Yes!
Matt: Go ahead and roll an attack.
Marisha: Natural one!
Taliesin: That's not a spell attack, is it?
Marisha: That was for me!
Matt: And for the other elemental, what's your bonus? As an earth elemental, what's your attack bonus? Because the other elemental is going to punch him at the same time too.
Marisha: He gets a plus eight.
Matt: Plus eight? That's a 16, that does not. So here's what happens. In slow motion, Grog stands there with a big grin on his face, and both fists go (slamming) and glide off, no impact. And you're still dumbfounded and enjoying the moment.
Travis: Keyleth.
Marisha: (gruffly) I did that on purpose.
Travis: Can I understand what she's saying?
Matt: No, you hear (rockslide crashing).
Sam: Wow, she can become far-sighted earth elementals. (laughter)
Sam: Amazing.
Marisha: Okay, I drop my form to hear what Grog has to say.
Travis: That sucked. That was the worst one of all of them.
Marisha: Really?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Did it hurt you when we punched you?
Travis: No, like-- wait, is the beard all right?
Matt: The beard is fine.
Travis: Yeah, okay, no. It's all good. Does it do anything else than whiff?
Marisha: Well. And I tell the elemental to--
Taliesin: No, it does nothing else.
Laura: Nothing.
Marisha: Attack Grog again.
Travis: Let me turn around.
Matt: That is an 18.
Marisha: Fucking shit.
Matt: It doesn't miss, what it does is it hits you and you're like (slamming). You barely felt it.
Marisha: How was that?
Travis: Oh man, yeah. Really, whew. Stout.
Marisha: Really? Yeah?
Travis: Yeah. I'm questioning my faith now.
Marisha: Man, this staff is so powerful.
Travis: Yeah, sure is.
Marisha: Jeez, wow.
Travis: Not that I want to feel any more damage after that hurricane of pain, but does it do anything else?
Marisha: I can keep burning the fucking charges.
Matt: By the way, you've now burned 14 charges.
Marisha: Yes, I know.
Travis: Give me one really big one.
Marisha: Goddamn it. I hope we're not fighting anything so I can recharge these.
Laura: It's going to be like three days for her to get them back.
Sam: Does this thing protect you at all?
Marisha: No, it's a damage-dealer.
Laura: Don't do any more. Don't waste any more, Marisha. Don't do it.
Liam: You're not there.
Laura: That's why I said Marisha.
Marisha: I'm going to wait. I'm going to see. I'm going to save some action. Real fast, just in case-- and I whack him with the staff.
Travis: Like Rafiki?
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll a d20. Add your strength modifier and your proficiency modifier.
Marisha: My strength and my-- Let's see, 18. No wait, 19!
Matt: 19. What's your AC, Grog?
Travis: 20.
All: Aww.
Matt: Whack!
Travis: (melodramatic groaning) Oh, the pain of-- what's this thing called? Confires! It hurts so much.
Marisha: Wow, really?
Travis: I feel the reflux-- the conflux.
Marisha: Oh, it gave you acid reflux?
Travis: Yeah, it's real bad. I have to leave because I feel like I might toss.
Marisha: That's good to know. It induces sickness?
Travis: Yeah, I feel like I'm going to cry too.
Marisha: Okay, good to know, all right, thank you.
Travis: And I leave, holding my forehead and laughing. Small, little laugh.
Marisha: I'm good for now.
Matt: Percy, you're going to the workshop, you said?
Taliesin: Yeah, grabbing the helmets and here, I'm going to borrow you.
Marisha: And now I go.
Matt: So you guys go and do that. In the meantime, both of you find your way to Scanlan's wine room. (aerating noises and laughter)
Liam: I don't know what any of these are; do you know what's good and what's bad?
Laura: Pick the one that looks the fanciest.
Liam: You were better at that than I am.
Laura: I go to the corner-- the highest shelf, I don't fucking know. These are probably all fake wine anyway. I fly up and grab the one on the highest shelf and fly back down.
Matt: You grab it, look at the label. It's a Pinot Noir, and the title of the brand says Le White Meat.
Laura: Oh no, it's chicken wine. Fuck.
Travis: Oh no, is it really?
Laura: Whatever, we'll drink it anyway. It's going to be disgusting.
Taliesin: There's actually a drink called Cock Ale, which is brewed in a dead chicken.
Travis: Of course you would know that.
Matt: No, it's regular red wine. But definitely is labelled with a chicken on it.
Laura: That's funny.
Liam: I'm grabbing a random Two Buck Chuck next to me on the wall.
Matt: Same label. They're all the same wine.
Liam: Hey, hey, hey. To Vex'ahlia, the dragon slayer.
Laura: Fuck yes!
Liam: (slamming) Oh shite, we should do it for real.
Laura: Oh yeah, right, what's up?
Liam: Oh man, I'm proud of you.
Laura: Thanks!
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Is that all you wanted to say?
Liam: No.
Laura: I didn't think so.
Liam: Well, that's three of five.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: I don't know if we're all going to live, but I think that collectively we might actually pull it off.
Laura: I think we have a good shot of it.
Liam: Yeah. Almost bit it, out there.
Laura: Yeah, I noticed.
Liam: Again.
Laura: Yes. Scary.
Liam: Can I have a hug?
Laura: I'm glad you're not dead.
Liam: Yeah, old news. We've done it before, we'll do it again. Hey, do you want to try jumping around with those boots?
Laura: Oh, I gave them to Grog.
Liam: You want to try to jump around anyway?
Laura: Sure.
Liam: What can you do? How high can you go?
Laura: I jump. It's a jump. A normal little jump.
Liam: It's good, yeah.
Laura: Why?
Liam: No reason, I'm procrastinating.
Laura: Oh, yeah. So tell me what you're procrastinating about?
Liam: How long are you going to torture yourself for?
Laura: Oh, you fuck. (laughing) What? (muffled) What are you even talking about right now? Do you want to see how high I can jump now? So high. I get on my broom and I fly up to the ceiling.
Liam: Push out the wings. No, I can't!
Matt: Yeah, you already used it.
Liam: Will you come down here and talk to me?
Laura: (groans) Fine, fine! Hi.
Liam: Yeah. What are you doing?
Laura: I don't know! I don't-- what?
Liam: You know I've known for a while? It's all over your face, I've known you since you were a baby, I've known for a while.
Laura: Okay. (nervous laughter)
Liam: I've almost died. You have died.
Laura: Yes.
Liam: He died.
Laura: Yes.
Liam: What are you fucking doing, Vex?
Laura: (sighs) It's just timing, you know? It's all timing.
Liam: Timing could have you dead in the ground tomorrow.
Laura: This is true.
Liam: And do you know something? Hey.
Laura: Hmm?
Liam: He leads with this. Not with that.
Laura: His collarbone?
Liam: Yeah. Fucking smart-ass. Maybe he'll surprise you, but I don't know.
Laura: I think he isn't thinking that way at all, and honestly--
Liam: (snorts) You're a dummy. I'm the dummy, why are you such a dummy?
Laura: I don't know, darling. It seems so trivial. Doesn't it?
Liam: What the fuck do we have in this world except for moments with each other? That's all we've got.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: I want you to have some happiness in your life.
Laura: I do have happiness!
Liam: I want you to have a little more. There's no reason to hold back. Why?
Laura: Wouldn't it be so awkward though?
Liam: Who cares? You know what's awkward?
Laura: Hmm?
Liam: A life not lived.
Laura: Hey, I'm living a life. I've got Trinket. I've got you, sometimes, when you're not with Keyleth.
Liam: Listen, you're my sister, and I love you very much, and I know a lot about you, and I can help you in a lot of ways. But not every way.
Laura: I know.
Liam: There are facets of you that have nothing to do with me.
Laura: Very few.
Liam: I want you to be happy, and we all could be dead in a week. You know that.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: I'm a fucking idiot. I don't know anything.
Laura: (laughing) I want you to remember that you just said that.
Liam: I never forget it. Ever. In the game or out of the game, Laura.
Laura: Oh, don't!
Liam: It's a short life we got. I'm not going to tell you what to do, but I won't tell you what to do. I do want you to be happy.
Laura: Thank you. And I'll try.
Liam: And on a side note-- he's a little fucked up.
Laura: Oh, I know.
Liam: And he only listens to you.
Laura: Well, that's not true.
Liam: Yes it is.
Laura: No!
Liam: Who does he listen to?
Laura: Keyleth. They're like, so close.
Liam: Yeah, they enjoy each other's company, I know that, but you're really the only one who he listens to. So I need you to-- he has impulses. He has impulse control. I have impulse control.
Laura: Yes you do!
Liam: He has a different kind of impulse control.
Laura: Okay. You want me to control him then. Get him under my thumb. Bring him to the light, just a little bit?
Liam: You know what I'm talking about.
Laura: I know what you're talking about.
Liam: I take another bottle of wine and I (gulps).
Laura: (laughing) I thank you.
Liam: Am I drunk, am I at disadvantage now, if do the whole bottle?
Matt: In a minute you will be, yeah.
Liam: Grab another bottle.
Laura: Hm? Glug glug glug? Well, all right.
Liam: (groans) I want to go see some fireballs get shot, I'll see you later!
Laura: Okay, have fun.
Liam: Woo!
Matt: As Vax sloppily leaves the room, you're left in quiet, by yourself with your--
Liam: (booming) And I walk away!
Laura: I pop Trinket out, cast Speak with Animals and have a nice fun conversation with him.
Matt: We're going to go ahead and take a break here, come back here in a minute, use the restroom.
Marisha: Aw, we haven't done shit!
Matt: That's not true. You've discussed the spoils from your last major story bit, so we'll be back here in a few minutes. We're going to go ahead and take a restroom break, fill up on drinks. Stay tuned and we'll see you in a minute. [break]
Matt: Hello, everyone and welcome back to Critical Role! After a barrage of delightful phrases that were just shouted at me. It's great.
Travis: Love you, Matt!
Matt: Love you too, guys. I do want to say real fast that our wonderful Kiki Day, who made a number of other Vestiges--
Laura: Fenthras!
Matt: Made Fenthras, made--
Marisha: And the Spire!
Matt: Made the Spire of Conflux, which you can see on Marisha's twitter right now?
Marisha: Geek & Sundry's twitter.
Matt: Geek & Sundry's twitter. As well as making me a belt buckle that I'm going to be wearing at Blizzcon. (yelling)
Matt: That's fucking fantastic.
Travis: That's a badass motherfucking belt.
Matt: (McCree voice) Just saying.
Liam: (Oprah voice) Spire of Conflux!
Matt: (McCree voice) Now I've got a reason to go ahead and wear myself a tucked-in shirt. (normal voice) Anyway, let's get into the game. You guys, finishing those scenes. Taking a short rest. You roll your hit dice to heal up a bit. What more do you wish to accomplish? What's your next plan of action, Vox Machina?
Taliesin: I say we pack up all of our things and raid a ship.
Laura: And then head back to Whitestone. I mean-- Oh, no, we're fine in here.
Sam: Are we?
Laura: Are we?
Marisha: Do you want to rest before we do that?
Taliesin: I say we--
Sam: We have to rest. We're all severely injured.
Taliesin: Well, some of us, yes. I say we take a night, we hit the ship and then head home.
Liam: It's good wine!
Laura: Oh, he's drunk.
Marisha: You guys got into the wine?!
Sam: Did you aerate it first?
Liam: How do you do that?
Sam: If you don't have an aerator, you can put it in a mason jar and shake it up a bit.
Liam: We just drank it out of the bottle.
Sam: Well, that's just pedestrian, really.
Laura: You have so many.
Taliesin: Put some ice in it, keep it cold.
Marisha: Are we still melting a mask to a helmet?
Taliesin: We had a little bit of metallurgy to do.
Matt: Make a tinkering check, and this, actually, make--
Marisha: I help him with my Heat Metal spell like a soldering iron.
Matt: Okay! That being the case, it's going to help with the metal's pliability. Go ahead and make your regular dex-based.
Taliesin: Regular dex-based? All right.
Matt: Would make it strength-based for the metal, but the Heat Metal is helping you with that.
Taliesin: All right.
Marisha: Big money, no whammies!
Taliesin: That's a 26.
Matt: 26? Yeah, without an issue you manage to apply the mask onto the back of the helmet after looking at some brief glances at the shape of Grog's head, making sure that it has a hinge so if he leans forward, it doesn't restrict or press into his back if he looks up. It is a functional backmask onto his delightful pointed helmet.
Taliesin: I've also carved, in Elven, in the inside, "Kick Me."
Matt: On the inside of the mask?
Taliesin: Yeah. So it's there.
Marisha: It's magnificent.
Taliesin: I think so.
Marisha: Shall we present it to him?
Taliesin: Yes, let's.
Marisha: I feel like we should go at this with a little bit of theatricality. Just because it's so much fun to fuck with Grog.
Taliesin: I know!
Marisha: How do you want to do this?
Taliesin: I don't know.
Marisha: Oh! I turn into an elephant. Get on my back!
Taliesin: Did you say that before turning into an elephant?
Marisha: Yes, I do! Get on my back!
Liam: (elephant sound)
Taliesin: For god's sake, Vax, stop aerating more wine! We've had enough! You've had enough!
Matt: Sam is so over it.
Taliesin: No, never!
Marisha: Percy's on my back and I'm an elephant holding the mask while we go find Grog.
Matt: Well, first you get to the doorway of the workshop.
Marisha: It's a temporary fucking mansion. I bust through.
Matt: Make a strength check.
Marisha: I don't know how to-- Will you put this in dice jail for me?
Laura: You got it.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Marisha: I don't know. What do I roll for a--
Matt: Look it up. You add your strength modifier as an elephant.
Marisha: Well, I don't know what an elephant's stats are!
Matt: I'm going to find it right now. I'm going to find for you what an elephant's stats are! Just going to go look it up for you!
Marisha: Well, I rolled a two!
Matt: You rolled a what, a two?
Marisha: Yeah, a two.
Sam: It's not going to work!
Marisha: I'm a fucking elephant and it's a door!
Matt: It's plus six because it has a strength of 22 because it's a goddamn elephant. So eight. You (slam). It lurches ever so slightly, but that is a very strong doorway. It's almost like the arcane nature of Scanlan's magic makes a good home.
Marisha: Can I try it again?
Matt: You hit it again. Make another strength check.
Marisha: That's much better! 16 total!
Matt: 16. It causes some of the plaster to crack. Doesn't get that much further, but you're starting to get a serious headache.
Travis: Are we hearing this? Are we hearing a massive commotion?
Matt: You're starting to hear it now. There's this low, general slamming sound in the mansion.
Laura: What is that?
Travis: Yeah, do you hear that?
Sam: I do. Doesn't sound right.
Laura: Should we go find out?
Sam: I pull out Mythcarver and run down the stairs!
Travis: I take out the bloodaxe and I follow him!
Matt: Another strength check.
Marisha: They get better with each time. 19!
Matt: 19. The door gets knocked partially off of its hinges and the frame is now slightly bent forward. The wood is splintered and the stone has more cracks into it. The headache is now pounding.
Marisha: I should have thought about this!
Matt: You guys hear another, even louder slam this time. As you rush down to the outside of Percy's workshop you see some crazed, large, shifting gray movement of some creature, on the other side of the doorway.
Travis: Jesus! Scanlan, is this one yours?
Sam: No. It's definitely an intruder.
Travis: Then we fucking kill it! We race forward and attack.
Matt: All right, both of you guys roll a--
Liam: Wait, is Percy still riding?
Matt: You don't see Percy, because Percy's above you!
Taliesin: Am I aware of this happening? At all, I don't see them at all?
Matt: No, because you're inside the workshop and you're above the doorframe she's slamming into.
Travis: 23.
Sam: One.
Matt: So Scanlan, you go running with Mythcarver in the air, and as you go to strike, Grog shoves you out of the way, in the middle of his angry grab and you go skidding across the ground, Mythcarver spinning out of your grasp across the floor. Are you making a single attack or are you doing a full round of attacks on this beast?
Travis: This is a giant beast, I'm giving it what for!
Matt: So roll another attack, are you raging for this?
Travis: No, I'm not raging. (laughing) 24.
Matt: Okay, both hit. Go ahead and roll damage on both attacks, non-rage damage.
Marisha: No, go with it. Go with it.
Travis: 20 points, four points of necrotic.
Laura: Oh god.
Travis: I know, I don't hit lightly.
Sam: Elephant's going to die.
Travis: 22 points of damage.
Matt: You take 42 points of damage from your maximum of 76 hit points as an elephant, as all of a sudden, what little bit of vision you have through the pounding headache, you glance through in time to see Grog's form (roaring) run up and slam his axe into you twice.
Marisha: How much damage?
Matt: 42.
Marisha: What's my form?
Matt: 76.
Marisha: I fucking headbutt him, I'm going to gorge him! Let's go!
Matt: You're going to gorge him?
Travis: Scanlan!
Sam: Careful Grog, it has some protection magic on it. It threw me across the room! (laughter)
Matt: All right, Marisha. I would like you to roll for a gore attack against Grog.
Laura: This is ridiculous.
Marisha: What do I add? I don't have a stat.
Matt: Plus eight.
Marisha: 18.
Matt: 18? No, I don't think that hits you. So you go ahead and try and gore Grog, and Grog ducks right beneath the two giant ivory horns.
Marisha: Do I knock down the doorway a little bit more?
Matt: Make a strength check.
Marisha: Okay. 20 total.
Matt: With that, as you duck below, the elephant slams through the archway, sending stone and pieces of wood flying, and stumbles past. You duck down to try and the avoid the attack, going underneath the elephant as it begins to stomp over you into the room. You see this as you spin around. The elephant bursts in, and it is very much an elephant, you can see now, with Percy on top being dragged through the rubble.
Taliesin: I'm thankfully wearing a helmet.
Sam: It's got Percival!
Travis: Roll off! Roll off, Percy!
Taliesin: (deadpan) Oh help. Help, please.
Travis: He's so weak he can barely speak!
Sam: We must kill this elephant.
Travis: We must destroy this beast!
Matt: Scanlan and Grog, what are you doing?
Travis: Come on, buddy.
Sam: We got to kill this thing.
Travis: Yeah, you go. Come on.
Sam: I will throw a Wand of Fireballs at it.
Matt: How many charges does it have left?
Sam: Oh, plenty. I have only used one of seven.
Matt: But each time you use it-- okay. Not quite how it works, I don't think.
Liam: Just look at the shirt, Matt, just look at his shirt.
Matt: Oh, you're right. One charge is a third level spell, I misunderstood. So you launch your Fireball, go ahead and roll damage.
Sam: Oh wait, what is the damage? It's 8d6. Got it.
Matt: 8d6. Keyleth, I need you to roll a d20 minus one.
Marisha: Don't fuck me, Gil. Rolling your die! Wait, a d20 minus one? (laughing) Six total. Goddamn it Gil.
Matt: Okay. Percy, I need you to roll a dexterity saving throw.
Taliesin: That's not bad, that's 18.
Matt: Okay, what was the damage you said?
Sam: 26.
Matt: I need you to roll a dexterity saving throw, with advantage.
Travis: Natural 20.
Marisha: I'm still wearing my cloak, so do they get disadvantage on attacks against me? Because I'm in the Cloak of Displacement.
Sam: You're an elephant though.
Taliesin: You're an elephant in the Cloak of Displacement.
Marisha: But whenever I Beast Shape I absorb my items.
Matt: That would have been something to mention earlier, so going forward the attacks will have disadvantage, but you have to remember that for it to have an effect.
Marisha: But they're just now rolling.
Matt: He hasn't attacked yet, he's rolling because a Fireball just blew up in his face!
Travis: I got a natural 20, so I'm good.
Matt: So that's half damage to you. You said it was 26 damage?
Sam: 26.
Matt: So 13 points of fire damage to Percy and Grog, and a full 26 points of fire damage to you. That puts you at a total of 42 plus 26, so 68. You're still up. The elephant that's now storming through the center-- hold on, I have to go with the battle music for this now.
Sam: Where's your battle map?
Matt: --storming through the center of the foyer, is now spinning around, flames exploding, engulfing Percy, Grog. The elephant is now covered in blood and scrapes. That finishes your go. Grog, you're up.
Sam: Before I'm done I'm going to inspire Grog and say: Grog, remember. They never forget! (laughter)
Matt: Take your d12 inspiration.
Travis: Thank you. I'll take two strikes at the elephant's ass. That's a one.
Matt: With disadvantage.
Travis: Oh. Well, that's a one, so.
Matt: I know. You still have the second attack.
Travis: That's a two.
Marisha: (heavy footsteps)
Matt: So as you go--
Laura: Wait, it's not a two!
Travis: So the second one was 16, the first one was a 15.
Matt: It still hits. You rolled a two and it still hits because its AC is 12. It's very big and easy to hit. Go ahead and roll damage on the next attack.
Travis: Oh, nice. What a joy!
Taliesin: It's not hard to hit an elephant.
Liam: Can we also say that the two winos have come down to watch?
Laura: Yeah, we're staring from the top of the stairs at all of it happening.
Travis: The first one is 20, with four points of necrotic damage.
Matt: You only hit with one.
Travis: Oh, that's right.
Matt: How much was that, 20 points?
Travis: Yeah, 20.
Matt: Okay, so Keyleth, you yourself take 12 points of damage. As your axe swings through and slams into the elephant, the elephant's form suddenly vanishes, as your axe cleaves through Keyleth a little bit, causing her to fall back and catch herself.
Laura: Is Percy still on her back, piggy-backing?
Matt: In a second, Percy goes (thud) on the ground next to you.
Marisha: (pained noise)
Travis: Percy, you've been riding Raishan! Die, evil witch!
Laura: Grog! It's Keyleth.
Marisha: Oh, Grog, thank you! That elephant ate me! You saved me!
Travis: I did?
Marisha: You did.
Travis: Sometimes I don't know if you guys would live without me. I'm really glad I'm around, sometimes.
Taliesin: I can't imagine it. I legitimately cannot imagine it.
Travis: Ooh, is that my helmet?!
Taliesin: It is!
Liam: Ayy, Fredrickstein the Science Guy, nice job! Look at that! That is beautiful.
Laura: (whispering) He's drunk.
Marisha: The elephant ate this too.
Taliesin: It's Dr. Fredrickstein, please.
Travis: Is there poo on it?
Marisha: No, it's good.
Taliesin: It's clean. It's perfectly reasonable.
Travis: Ooh, the mask's on the back. Did you write on the inside like I said?
Taliesin: It is engraved in Elven on the inside, it's lovely.
Travis: It looks like writing. What's it--
Taliesin: It's your title, sir.
Travis: --is that? What language?
Laura: Oh, that? It's Elvish.
Travis: Oh, it's Elvish? So not everybody knows what my title is.
Taliesin: It's meant to be secret.
Travis: Very smart. Did you see my title?
Laura: I did, it's impressive.
Marisha: I wrote it down.
Taliesin: Did you? Oh dear.
Marisha: I knew it was going to be handy.
Travis: I will put on the new mask slash horned helm.
Matt: It feels impressive.
Travis: Does it?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Actually, because now the mask is facing the back, right? Can I fucking turn it around and put the mask on the front, with the horn sticking out the back like a big Nike swoosh?
Matt: You can. It's not as comfortable, but it definitely feels badass.
Travis: (muffled) I don't feel like this is the best--
Taliesin: You sound very intimidating.
Liam: He got polymorphed into De Niro. (laughter)
Taliesin: Oh my god.
Sam: I feel like I'm going to have to write some house rules from now on.
Taliesin: It'd be good to have a list of things to ignore, I agree.
Liam: You need some of those blue guys with an aerator at all times down in those cellars.
Sam: Blue man group?
Liam: One of your blue guys! The blue guys! That disappears with this place--
Sam: My hundreds of--? There's no guys here. They're all female servants. I don't know how many times I need to say this.
Liam: Well, nobody farted in our wine tonight. We had to drink it regular.
Sam: I am sorry for your loss, because it's really excellent once you let it breathe and open up.
Liam: It's pretty good right now.
Travis: Well, now that I got my helmet, are we going down to the ship?
Taliesin: I propose that we have an evening's rest. In the morning--
Liam: We should go now.
Laura: No. Maybe you need to rest.
Taliesin: No, I think we need an evening's rest.
Liam: I have 25 hit points. I'm fine!
Laura: Yeah. Well, Pike is resting because she was hurt quite badly.
Liam: Yeah, but did you see her fun buns, though? I did those.
Laura: I didn't.
Taliesin: You did her fun buns?
Liam: Yeah, I pulled little fun buns--
Taliesin: Oh! Okay! That's good--
Liam: What do you think I meant?
Taliesin: I didn't think anything, I'm going up.
Liam: What else does fun buns mean except for little, cute, little hairballs on your hair?
Sam: I'll give you a book later.
Laura: Oh, yeah! You have a book?
Sam: I have a few. I have a library.
Liam: Oh, gosh! Neither Vax nor Liam knew there was anything other than little cute hair buns-- Fun buns. What is a "fun bun" besides a fun bun?
Matt: Ask Larkin.
Liam: You guys! We got to find Larkin!
Matt: Okay. All right, so you guys take your long rest. You regain your spells, you're all full hit points, you regain half your max hit dice. So if you spent more than half of your hit dice, you still--
Laura: Do we keep our hit dice from our Heroes' Feast? If we never got rid of them? Or are they gone?
Matt: No. By the time you'd wake up, they'd be gone, probably.
Liam: Can you use the hit-- never mind.
Sam: When they wake up in the morning, Vax has a bill under his door for three bottles of wine. And Vex for one bottle. And Keyleth for a construction bill of 5,000 gold pieces.
Laura: I promptly rip the fuck out of my bill.
Marisha: I think it's a scam, and I throw it away.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: It is a scam. (laughter)
Matt: All right. Well-rested. A fresher day. The mansion, growing fairly close to probably expending the rest of its magic. What do you guys do?
Taliesin: Let's pack our things, head down and take a look at that pirate ship, then head home. Well, that ship. I don't know if it has pirate symbols, but I'm very excited.
Marisha: So wait, do we need things-- how far under the ice is it?
Taliesin: Probably a bit. Having the ability to melt some ice would probably be helpful. Also, you're going to have to do the tree teleport and possibly we want to deal with reforestation of some kind.
Marisha: Reforestation. Oh, sure because the Ice Age wiped out--
Taliesin: We have to go out like Captain EO. It's a thing.
Marisha: Yeah!
Sam: Just throwing this out there, is there anything to gain by going up to the dragon lair and communicating with Thordak? Is there anything we want to say to him?
Laura: No.
Taliesin: No.
Sam: Misdirection? Taunting? Anything?
Travis: Like, you suck. You can find us at the Glintshore?
Liam: We don't even want to take an hour for me to slip this on and go see if there's anything of value?
Sam: Up in the lair?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: You can do that while we look at the ship.
Taliesin: Not a bad idea.
Sam: But don't go alone. You can still get hit with traps.
Liam: I can look for those. I do like buddies to go. Do you need to go to the boat?
Taliesin: It's all in the same place.
Laura: Yeah. It's all in the same place.
Sam: I can hover above you or something.
Travis: Let's jauntily head over.
Taliesin: If there's a problem, we can call the others. We won't be that far away.
Liam: All right. Ooh! I slip Whisper into my pack and I put this ring on.
Sam: (whispers) Ooh! Precious!
Laura: Right, so you have to attune to that.
Liam: (Gollum voice) Nasty!
Taliesin: Thank you.
Liam: (Gollum voice) Nasty!
Travis: Nasty woman.
Liam: (Gollum voice) She's a nasty woman! (laughter)
Taliesin: Oh, I may need a ringtone later.
Matt: Yeah. All right, great. So you guys have put yourselves together. Kima and Pike joined you downstairs in the foyer. You make your way back out into the ravine just as the magic of the mansion fades. There you can see most of the dragon bones picked entirely off the corpse of Vorugal, except for the ribcage, still remaining as a landmark of the battle that took place with a central tree still sprouting from the top of it.
Laura: Is it any bigger?
Matt: No, the magic of Fenthras creates the tree and it stays that size as it sprouts. Who knows if over time it may grow? You haven't had the time to really tell. You guys make your way--
Marisha: I didn't know you are an artist.
Laura: It's quite lovely, isn't it?
Marisha: It's pretty amazing, yes. I appreciate this.
Laura: You're welcome. I did it for you, Keyleth.
Taliesin: Certainly adds something, doesn't it? To the whole valley. It's quite nice.
Travis: Yeah. Green.
Matt: The weather has cleared up. There's breaks in the clouds. It's still mostly cloud-covered, but you do see glimpses of blue sky here and there. Still cold, still see your breath out in the air. But the temperature does feel slightly warmer than it was the day before. You begin to walk down to the ravine center on the north side of the ravine where Vorugal's lair once resided. You can see hundreds of footprints, up and down, through the snow, through the ravine; looks like there's been a lot of foot traffic to and from while you guys were resting. You make your way to the ice throne of Vorugal and you see a portion of it has collapsed inward. But you also see a lot of foot traffic around, most of the ice spires that remained up there have been broken. The remaining Draconian corpses that were adorning them were taken down, or aren't in sight. And you can see there are a few remaining dragonborn Ravenites that are stepping in and out of the cavern-like chamber that you largely punched through and they continued to excavate it into the night.
Taliesin: If you could let them know that we're going to make one last venture into the ship and then we'll be on our way.
Laura: I walk up to one of the guys going in, and say in Draconic, have you unearthed the giant ship yet?
Matt: He looks for a second and says, "It is nothing for us. But we've worked around it." He points down, and you can see the portion of it that has collapsed, filled in part at the side and shoveled out in these large chunks of ice that are sitting outside of this cavern area. Parts of the ship have been moved around-- it looks like it's been somewhat damaged. It's not a full ship. It's a large portion of a ship. It looks like in whatever battle or attack that Vorugal took this ship, it destroyed a huge portion of it in doing so and took the rest of it with it, in pieces. And it is a very pretty ship. It looks like it may have been the jewel of a navy somewhere. And here it resides. However, it does appear like the ship has seen many moons since it was originally taken, if that makes any sense. Like, it wasn't brought directly here. It looks like almost a keepsake that Vorugal has moved from lair to lair.
Liam: (whispers) Oh, that's legit!
Matt: Has some sort of sentimental value.
Laura: Oh, wow! It had some engraving on it. You speak a lot of languages, right?
Taliesin: Well. I speak a couple of languages, I read a couple.
Marisha: What is it?
Taliesin: Does it look familiar?
Matt: What languages do you know?
Taliesin: Celestial, Elven, Common.
Marisha: Sylvan, Primordial, Druidic, Elven.
Travis: Giant, Common.
Sam: Gnomish. That's it.
Matt: You don't even know Common. No one has understood you this entire game!
Laura: Pike speaks Dwarvish.
Matt: Pike does pick up on it. It is Dwarvish text.
Travis: I speak Dwarvish, but I can't read.
Matt: That is a problem.
Travis: I have a belt, yeah.
Matt: It is Dwarven, and as Pike begins reading around it, this-- it's the name of the ship across the mast, which is "The Floebreaker." This ship appears to have been, at least in some way, shape, or form, designed as a means of travelling through very far north icy regions, meant to break through elements of heavy glacier flows and such. The construction of it, as you get closer to the actual bit of the ship that is there, you can see it's very heavily reinforced with metal and has a very rigid structure to it. The fine scrolling that you saw before, it looks to be partially filled with ice at times. So as soon as it broke away, you could see it's actually more of a harsh, broken Dwarvish runic writing to it. The ship has definitely seen a lot of wear and tear. That's about as much you can make out of it.
Laura: Can we get inside of it? Is there anything to see inside of it?
Matt: You can attempt to climb inside if you want to.
Marisha: How much is exposed right now?
Matt: Just the top of the deck, and where the mast connects to the-- that portion is still frozen into the upper part of the throne. There is no entrance immediately visible, but you can break through some more ice or try to break through the actual deck to get there.
Marisha: I cast a Flaming Sphere.
Matt: Okay. A flaming ball begins to roll on the bridge of the ship.
Marisha: Where does it look like the most convenient entrance? With ice and stuff?
Matt: Maybe four feet away from where the ice begins. You can see there is one broken portion of the ship deck, maybe about a three-foot, four-foot hole that you could melt towards if you wanted to.
Marisha: All right, I'm going to concentrate my Flaming Sphere on that and start melting it.
Matt: Okay. It's taking a while. About how long does the spell last, the Flaming Sphere?
Marisha: About a minute, I think?
Laura: (hums the Jeopardy theme)
Matt: All right, Flaming Sphere, up to a minute, yeah. The spell expires, the minute done, and you've managed to melt maybe three inches into the ice?
Laura: Grog, go punch it.
Marisha: How much was it?
Matt: About four feet of ice.
Marisha: Oh, fuck that.
Travis: Ugh! I got it.
Marisha: I step back.
Travis: And I start going Rocky-ribcage on this big piece of meat.
Matt: Okay, make your strength check.
Laura: Natural 20.
Travis: 21.
Matt: 21. He continues to punch, and punch, and punch, and each one you see the ice crack, pieces of it break away. You get quite a ways to punching through towards the direction that you are currently melting before a lot of the ice crumbles and falls and almost buries you for a second. But you knock it away and pull yourself out of it as you do, scooping the shards that occupied the space where you were and get out of the way.
Marisha: I cast a Gust cantrip over top of him to keep ice from falling on him.
Laura: I hope there's really something in here.
Marisha: Me too.
Matt: Keeps punching. You get to one point, and you hit, and you hear a (dull impact). You watch a crack spider up to the top of the throne.
Travis: I think we need to go.
Matt: Portion of the throne above you is now starting to crack and fall onto the side.
Travis: I start running out of there.
Laura: We should get out. Let's go.
Marisha: I also back out.
Matt: Okay. I need the three of you who are closest to it to make a dexterity saving throw, please.
Travis: Can I use my Boots of Feral Leaping?
Matt: You have advantage on dexterity, though. You'll be fine.
Liam: I could've hanged back, but I've been meaning to say this whole time that I was creeping around the thrones, I'm just going to throw that out, that I'm up there.
Matt: Okay, so you see this happening. A portion of it, like a whole half side of it has cracked and is sliding down into the cavern that has been excavated by your party and the Ravenites.
Liam: So if I'm almost on it, should I be making a dex save as well?
Matt: If you're almost on it--
Liam: I was going to poke around and look around it.
Matt: Only half of it's collapsing, I'll say sure. Go for it. You who offers me to let you make a dexterity saving throw, yes. I will take it.
Laura: Really? Did you really do that?
Liam: I rolled a one, but I have lots of Luck left. And now I'm fine.
Travis: I'm not.
Liam: So that's a 26.
Matt: So yeah. You manage to leap off and tumble in the snow to the bottom and don't have to worry about it. Travis?
Travis: Eight. With advantage.
Laura: 29.
Marisha: Eight.
Taliesin: 19. But I burned a Resolve.
Matt: So as you guys dart out, Grog and Keyleth unfortunately are left a little bit behind. You both are pummelled with chunks of hard ice and jagged points of broken frost there, dealing 13 points of bludgeoning and piercing damage to both of you. And you find yourselves partially buried in the ice that cracks off it. You see most of Keyleth's body is currently buried, just her head and arms are out. And Grog, you're about up to your waist now in broken ice and snow. And you're like, (grunts), and pull yourself out.
Travis: Look at Keyleth's arm.
Laura: Yeah, I see it. Can you get her out?
Travis: Okay. I start moving the ice and pull her out.
Matt: You pull Keyleth out.
Marisha: (coughing)
Travis: That didn't go well.
Taliesin: Let's burrow straight into the side, I think, to be on the safe side. Let's stop melting ice.
Laura: Isn't it buried completely at this point?
Matt: At this point, the entire excavation portion-- by the way, as you guys came back, most of the gold and platinum that was in there has been completely removed by the Ravenites over time. And this whole area that has been excavated so carefully left it in a precarious place. Those physical hits by Grog sent that whole south side of the throne to collapse inwards. So it's partially collapsed. There's a large pile of ice, rock and snow. And it's not very accessible from the current standpoint.
Laura: Maybe it was one of Vorugal's first kills or something? And it's sentimental?
Taliesin: I don't know, I'm irritated by it.
Liam: I think it might have given him a little bit of juice when he was at home.
Marisha: Do you think it has some sort of icy-like--
Liam: Extra ability when he was here, maybe.
Marisha: I could try, and maybe now that the ice is broken I can melt it through it easier?
Liam: Why would a dragon keep a boat?
Taliesin: Why would he?
Travis: Maybe his woobie, you know--?
Laura: Like a blankie.
Liam: Yeah. You know about that, Percy?
Marisha: Some people like collecting ships, you know? Maybe he's a nautical kind of guy.
Travis: Yeah, guns and ships.
Laura: He was a nautical kind of guy.
Marisha: Right, yeah.
Travis: (hums the intro of "Alexander Hamilton")
Liam: While we're all standing here with our thumbs in our butts, could I look around and see if I see a little stone, a little palantir?
Matt: Make a investigation check.
Sam: Where are you standing?
Liam: Ugh, Luck again. Jeepers creepers.
Laura: He's up top.
Sam: If he's up top, I would have been up there with him, too.
Liam: 26.
Sam: I'm a crow. Circling around, watching him from above.
Liam: I'm invisible.
Sam: Well, I'm watching the area.
Matt: All right. What did you roll? 26? Yeah. You see within the north side of the throne, there are two orbs embedded in the ice, about a foot beneath the surface. Previously you saw more.
Liam: In the past, in other locations, you mean?
Matt: No, meaning when you guys first came to this when he wasn't there, you saw three stones. You now see two. But half of the throne has collapsed as well.
Liam: And how far down are they under the ice?
Matt: About a foot, a foot and a half from the surface.
Marisha: Never mind.
Liam: I'm going to go find my sister.
Laura: (groans) It's--
Liam: Hey! I'm invisible! Here I am.
Laura: Hi.
Liam: Hi.
Laura: Did you see it? It collapsed.
Liam: Yes, I saw it. I dodged out of the way.
Laura: Good.
Liam: I'm right here.
Laura: I know! I'm looking at you.
Liam: Yes, but I'm invisible.
Laura: I'm looking in your direction.
Liam: Boop!
Laura: Ugh, goddamn it.
Liam: Remember those little round seeing stones?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: There's a couple under the ice over there. Now, I was invisible so I don't--
Laura: You saw them under the ice?
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: You saw a couple under the ice?
Liam: A couple under the ice, a foot or two away.
Laura: Where were the other ones?
Liam: I didn't see any other ones.
Laura: Were they there before it collapsed?
Liam: I don't know. I was standing right beneath the throne when the throne collapsed. Then I found them.
Laura: Were they near the area that it collapsed?
Liam: Were they near the area that it collapsed?
Matt: One of them was, yeah.
Liam: One of them was, yeah.
Laura: Fuck!
Marisha: Fuck!
Taliesin: Fuck!
Travis: Fuck!
Liam: Fucking--
Sam: (caws)
Marisha: Hold on, did we maybe get-- is Thordak going to-- we should go.
Laura: Fuck!
Marisha: Percy, want to leave a mark anymore?
Laura: We should tell Tooma that--
Taliesin: We left one.
Laura: I go find Tooma.
Matt: The handful of dragonborn that were there, after the collapse, were walking back to the internal cavern area. As you head back, a large portion of Ravenites have all come out of their caves, and right now are in the process of scouring the ruins. Some of them are putting armaments away. Tooma is out there, currently conversing with a number of the other community leaders that are deciding what the next steps are.
Marisha: I approach Tooma. (clears throat) Tooma, it's time that we make our departure very soon.
Matt: "Very well."
Marisha: I want to thank you so much for everything that you provided and everything that your people have done.
Matt: "I wish to thank you for your sticking to your word."
Marisha: Of course. I would love to help and leave some parting gift in any way that I can.
Matt: "The riches from the hoard will provide enough for us. You need not worry."
Marisha: What was your land like before Vorugal got here? I know it wasn't as icy and as frigid.
Matt: "It was without snow. We are at the south side of Wildemount. I hope this fades with time, we are not bound for snow people."
Marisha: I can attempt to maybe revitalize your plant life as much as I can before I leave.
Matt: "You can do this?"
Marisha: I can.
Matt: "By all means. We would appreciate it."
Marisha: You have a good, strong people and I want to see your recovery. Just like I hope the same with mine.
Matt: "Me too."
Marisha: Anything that I can do.
Laura: Tooma?
Matt: "Yes?"
Laura: You know the stones we talked about?
Matt: "Yes."
Laura: Yeah, they got jostled.
Matt: "Why?"
Laura: It looks like that ice wasn't super-strong, and it collapsed.
Taliesin: The ice was going to collapse eventually, anyway.
Matt: "What does this mean?"
Laura: Not sure exactly.
Matt: "Okay."
Laura: But you should keep an eye on the sky. If you see something red, maybe hide. Just for a while. Thordak doesn't know what was here. But if he realizes Vorugal's been killed, he'll come looking. Potentially.
Matt: "But you're going to kill this Thordak, yes?"
Laura: Oh, yeah! With your help, I think. Just in case he comes before we get to him.
Matt: "You should get to him quickly, then."
Laura: Good plan.
Matt: "Good."
Liam: The whole time she's been talking, her braid has been going like a magical jump rope because I'm standing here doing this with it.
Laura: Not. The time.
Taliesin: If you find something--
Laura: (whispers) Fucking dick! Stop it!
Taliesin: If you find an ice weapon in that ship beneath the throne-- anything magical, some sort of ice power, we may need it. That may be useful.
Matt: "Keep in mind for it."
Marisha: I go up to the group. Percy, Vax, I need to take time with this, so are you all all right spending the rest of the day here while I help them?
Laura: Of course.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: All right. I ascend to the top of the ravine and I start meditating, and I cast Plant Growth.
Laura: We all need to go up there anyway because that's where the trees are that we're going to transport through, right?
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: We make our way to the top of the ravine as well.
Matt: What level is Plant Growth?
Marisha: Third.
Matt: 3rd-level. Gotcha.
Marisha: And I'm doing the eight-hour--
Laura: Eight hours!
Matt: Boy, guys!
Sam: Super boring day for us.
Marisha: Yep. Sorry.
Taliesin: God, I want to get in that ship!
Marisha: I start doing that and revitalizing their landscape as close to what it was before, giving their-- [no audio]
Matt: It affects all normal plants within a hundred-foot radius. So you have a very specific portion that you revitalize in the ravine.
Marisha: Okay. Well, I talked to Tooma and find out where she--
Matt: Actually, no, all plants in a half-mile radius are--
Marisha: That's what I thought, yeah. In the eight hour one that's like, crazy.
Matt: I should have kept reading. Okay, so yeah. You talk to her about it, and she tells you, "The ravine itself does not have the nutrients to support crops, but we had farmland right above the ravine."
Marisha: All right. Do you plan to still reside there?
Matt: "Once the snow melts, yes."
Marisha: I'll do what I can. And I go there.
Matt: Okay. You get there, and through the use of your elemental magics, you easily cast aside the snow. And from underneath, you can see where once there was a heavy amount of cropland that has all died off because of the recent freeze that came with Vorugal. You take the eight hours to concentrate and as you, do you enrich the land. You can watch as many of these dead seeds come to life with green once more. Suddenly, you see sprouting bits of delicious cabbages and other forms of produce begin to spring to life and grow nutrient rich. As this happens, you can see a few of the Ravenites who followed you to watch this are taken aback and excitedly rush down to tell the rest of the people. The rest of you are bored out of your mind for the next eight hours.
Travis: Kima and I are sparring.
Sam: Challenge Vax to a peeing in the snow contest.
Matt: He's had a lot of wine.
Liam: Oh yeah, that was last night.
Laura: So you're pretty hungover, you don't have a lot.
Sam: Distance and accuracy.
Liam: (sings a fanfare) I've brought one from your house.
Sam: It's gone.
Laura: It disappeared.
Liam: Damn it!
Matt: Yes, as you reach for it, there's nothing there.
Laura: That's amazing.
Matt: So you guys have fun sparring for a while, you beat the crap out of each other off and on for a few hours and you both feel good about it. When the eight hours have finished, you guys reconvene.
Liam: V-A-X. Your turn.
Marisha: Vax is shorter than Scanlan.
Travis: Cursive, baby.
Matt: I want both of you guys to make performance checks
Sam: Okay. Performance for peeing in the snow.
Laura: Oh, what what. He's got a really high modifier, though.
Liam: Oh, I'm sure he'll win.
Taliesin: No, you're going to win.
Sam: Not good.
Liam: No, even at his lowest it'll be higher I bet.
Sam: 18.
Liam: 21.
Matt: You want to add your d12?
Liam: Zorro.
Matt: You can add your own bardic inspiration.
Liam: Yeah, if he thinks of it.
Sam: It's a fair fight.
Matt: Okay, okay.
Sam: This is a fair fight.
Matt: It is close, but as much as your cursive writing was on point, it was impressive that Vax was capable of cursive drawing the X, stopping and then crossing the X.
Sam: Whoa.
Travis: It stings when you stop.
Sam: That's impressive, but you know my wang is built for power, not accuracy.
Laura: As soon as the cube comes out  can I talk to you, do you mind stepping away?
Travis: With the cube out?
Sam: You talking to me?
Laura: No, not you.
Taliesin: Sure, yeah, I'm going to do nothing but stare at that bloody ship if I don't, so sure.
Laura: How are you, after dying?
Taliesin: I'm trying really hard not to think about it, actually. I don't know, honestly. There hasn't been a lot of time to process.
Laura: No, there hasn't. It's a lot in a few days.
Taliesin: I would say it would be nice to be going home, except I know what we're going home to. So there's going to be no relief.
Laura: No, not for a while, I don't think.
Taliesin: That creature hanging around.
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: Yeah, death was not pleasant.
Laura: No. I have to tell you something
Taliesin: All right.
Laura: Do you know what Fenthras means?
Taliesin: I don't, actually.
Laura: It comes from the Elvish words, I'm surprised. Growth and protection.
Taliesin: I would've eventually looked it up. It's the sort of terribly boring thing I would do.
Laura: It's odd that Saundor had it for so long, since he was quite the opposite of that, don't you think?
Taliesin: I tend to think that many people tend to exalt the exact opposite of what they are.
Laura: Yes. I don't know, I think he focused for so long on the betrayal of his love, on all of the horrible things within himself that caused that, that he became the physical embodiment of it. And I think he was trying to do the same thing to me. Even though I refused him, I could feel those seeds being planted. Self-doubt and loathing echoing in my mind every night. Reliving every wrong that people have done to me and everything I have done.
Taliesin: I recently-- I will say, before death-- had a bit of an epiphany, and have been trying-- not always succeeding, but trying-- not to dwell on such things.
Laura: That's actually what I wanted to talk to you about. In the fight with Ripley.
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: Your last words to her were, "I forgive you."
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: It was such a surprise.
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: I pull out Fenthras and I show him what I've carved onto it, it's "sinaeth." Do you know that word?
Taliesin: How common is that word?
Matt: You know the word.
Taliesin: I would know the word.
Laura: It's forgive.
Taliesin: Oh.
Laura: I carved this on Fenthras because that's the key, isn't it? It's the only way to really grow.
Taliesin: I think so. I'm trying. It's the only thing I've tried that's made any sense so far. And it felt very liberating, it felt good, it felt perfect. And it wasn't about her. It was just about me. Honestly, that was really the thing that I noticed, was I didn't say it to make her feel better, I didn't say it to give her any peace. I came to that feeling before running into her. I didn't know if it would be true when I saw her, but I feel like so much of my energy had been such a waste. And worse than a waste, it had been twisted in the wrong direction. And it's too late for a lot of things. There are things I cannot take back and things that I have done that will forever be terrible, but that's not the point, I suppose.
Laura: It isn't. Whoever that boy was that created those things, that suffered such horrors that he felt they were justified? You have to forgive him, too. Because everything you've suffered and endured and created in that time has made you into the person you are now. And you have a brilliant mind. And any darkness that might cloud your vision on occasion, the fact that you found it within yourself to forgive her means that it will never overtake you.
Taliesin: Thank you. I would like to think we're all better than we think we are. Except maybe your brother. I think he's just a mess.
Laura: He's terrible, isn't he? Just the worst.
Taliesin: Is he in here?
Laura: Maybe, he's probably hiding somewhere.
Taliesin: Shouldn't have given him that ring. Thank you. I know I have to forgive myself. I'm not quite there yet, but I can see a path. I like where we are and what we're doing. I think that we're the right people in the right place and the right time.
Laura: I agree. And this engraving is a reminder that every time I attack, it's not out of vengeance.
Taliesin: I would be horrified if you were taking yourself too seriously.
Laura: Never. Did you see the bear that I carved on the tree? It's quite lovely.
Taliesin: It was quite lovely. I don't know if the tree is quite as happy with it, but I was quite impressed.
Laura: Thank you.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Laura: That's all.
Taliesin: What room are we in, out of curiosity?
Laura: There's no room, we're in the woods.
Taliesin: Oh, no room, we're in the woods. Yeah, all right. As I walk away, I walk up. I kiss her. So we'll talk later. And I walk away.
Liam: (singing) Anything can happen in the woods.
Taliesin: Bless you.
Travis: (high-pitched) Oh shit!
Matt: And it's ten o'clock. We're going to go ahead and end today's session.
Taliesin: Bam, motherfuckers! Bam!
Travis: (singing) Go on and kiss the girl.
Laura: Oh man, oh man.
Matt: Thank you guys for watching! That episode had a lot of interesting moments.
Sam: We had an elephant fight. (laughter)
Matt: The spoils of war.
Travis: A whole bunch of new shit.
Liam: Look at our signatures in the snow, that's fucking beautiful!
Taliesin: There was pissing, there was kissing, there was everything!
Sam: Pissing and kissing.
Taliesin: Pissing and Kissing is the title.
Marisha: That's a good title.
Matt: That is not going to be the title.
Liam: I shit it.
Taliesin: You're welcome, Internet.
Matt: Well then. We'll get ourselves to rest for the evening. You guys do the same, thank you for hanging in there. Once again, amazing community, we love you guys so much, all the support you have. Make sure to dig into all the awesome charities that we support, and you guys support as well. We're continuously getting messages from them, blown away by the generosity of the Critter and Team Hooman community, so thank you guys so much for your support on those.
Laura: Thank you, Backblaze.
All: Thanks, Backblaze!
Travis: That amazing commercial. They're always so good.
Matt: I guess until next week, guys. Is it Thursday yet? See you then.
Travis: Oh shit, man!

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit and play Dungeons and Dragons across my camera. (all laugh)
Matt: Welcome to tonight's adventure. Before we get into it, we're going to go ahead and go through our notes for sponsorship and other such glory for the evening. First and foremost, tonight, we have our fantastic returning sponsor, Lootcrate.
All: Lootcrate!
Matt: Thank you so much, Lootcrate. We have a glorious unboxing that is happening right now.
Laura: Right now!
Matt: Let's do it.
Marisha: So wait. They've changed their boxes and their logos. I don't know if you guys noticed.
Sam: I think you mean upgraded. I can't open this.
Laura: So wait, we're unboxing last month's box.
Travis: This is their 'build' theme.
Taliesin: It's the 'build' theme.
Liam: That's for building a thing, isn't it?
Marisha: Yeah!
Liam: Oh, that's cute.
Marisha: Oh, you know what? This was a bad decision. You're correct, this was a bad point of entry.
Taliesin: This was a great decision.
Travis: What did you do?
Laura: What did you do, Marisha?
Marisha: I found a perforated edge.
Matt: It's like a Batman loot container? Wait, wait, wait. Oh, slick.
Laura: You can put your soup in it!
Matt: You can put your secret keys in there. Hide it in your front yard so nobody can take it.
Sam: There's Lego stuff!
Taliesin: Oh, no there's not!
Sam: My kid's gonna love this!
Taliesin: Oh my god, I got the Spaceman. Which one did you get?
Sam: Lego Dimensions fun pack of--
Taliesin: It's what's-his-name. It's Liam Neeson.
Sam: That's Liam Neeson?
Liam: Yeah, they're all different.
Matt: I got Cyborg!
Marisha: I got Cyborg.
Matt: Yay, we have two Cyborgs for the home.
Marisha: Oh, yay. Who wants to trade me a Cyborg?
Taliesin: I'll trade you a Cyborg for a Spaceman.
Marisha: Aw, yeah.
Taliesin: Oh my god, this is actually--
Sam: Voltron?
Taliesin: No, that's Power Rangers.
Travis: We don't have to give these back, right? We can keep them?
Sam: That's not Voltron?
Taliesin: That's not Voltron, man.
Sam: I'm so stupid.
Taliesin: I know.
Laura: Did anybody show off the shirt, yet?
Sam: No.
Taliesin: Yeah, I did, but I'll show it off again. It's a really awesome Power Rangers shirt, with the classic Megazord.
Laura: That's pretty frickin' cool.
Sam: I'm pretty sure that's Voltron, guys.
Travis: Megazord!
Taliesin: Who are you gonna believe?
Laura: Wait, what size do I have?
Taliesin: Guy with the comic book show?
Laura: Hey, who's got a small?
Taliesin: I may have a small. Let me find out. This feels small.
Liam: What do you got?
Laura: I got a large.
Taliesin: I've got a large, never mind.
Marisha: There's also something that tells me that I can unlock the mysteries.
Taliesin: Oh, this is really cool, look at that.
Liam: What Lego did you get?
Marisha: Secret of the keys. Lootcrate.com/keys.
Sam: Ooh, 'How to build a tabletop RPG character'! That's very helpful.
Taliesin: You should definitely read that. You should definitely, definitely read that. Please read that. I'm not even kidding. Read that.
Laura: My favorite thing is the Batman head.
Liam: You, specifically.
Taliesin: You, read it.
Sam: I will read that.
Taliesin: Like, on the break, read it.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: Thanks, Lootcrate!
Matt: Thank you so much, Lootcrate! You're awesome, appreciate that. Sam, did you want to speak a little bit--
Sam: I just wanted to say the things that we're supposed to say, which is, our sponsor Lootcrate, this was their last month's theme, 'build'. This month's theme is 'primal', featuring brands like X-Men, Overwatch, and Predator. If you go to lootcrate.com/criticalrole and use the promo code 'criticalrole', one word, you get 10% off. I've prepared a very, very small bit tonight, because I knew we had the unboxing to do. I thought for our international audience, they might like to know how to say Lootcrate in different languages. So I did some really good research. Not five minutes on Google Translate, I'll tell you that much. In Spanish, Lootcrate is 'las ganancias cajas'. In German, it's 'der Zaster Casten'! In Japanese, it's 'senri-hin kureto'. In Latin, it's 'praedam corbis'. In Dutch, it's 'buit krat'. In Swedish, we're talking 'plundra spjällĺda'. And in Klingon, (yells in Klingon). (all cheer)
Taliesin: Good pronunciation.
Sam: Oh, and in pig latin, it's 'Am-say's ick-day is ig-bay'. All right, good.
Matt: Fantastic.
Liam: Send all your complaints care of Sam Riegel.
Matt: Thank you so much, Sam. And thank you, Lootcrate, for being our awesome sponsor. If the announcement sheet did go out today, I did not get it, so whoever put it together, if they could go find it real fast while I talk about--
Marisha: You talk!
Taliesin: I sent the announcement sheet to you.
Matt: I didn't get it in my e-mail.
Marisha: Let me find it on my--
Matt: It's okay.
Marisha: I don't know where my phone is.
Matt: I do want to give a heads-up, right now we have a giveaway happening from our pals over at Nerdist. Thanks to Qualcomm, Lion's Gate, and the new VR experience based on the upcoming Power Rangers movie, you can enter to win a paid trip to LA to attend the Power Rangers movie premiere, as well as Google Pixel phones and Daydream headsets. I don't know what Daydream headsets are, but I bet you I know what they do.
Travis: They're VR, they're the VR headset.
Matt: They give you daydreams. From now through March 10, you can go to nerdist.com/powerrangersgiveaway to learn more and enter to win, and we kinda prefer to see Critters win anything that happens here--
Travis: Yeah we do!
Matt: Because then we can stack the deck against our own people. To show those Nerdist guys what we mean here at Geek and Sundry.
Laura: What's up!
Matt: That's awesome, thank you so much for the heads-up on that. Let's see. The other announcements...
Marisha: The other announcements, I'm trying to navigate Taliesin's phone, because I don't know where my phone is, so this is just going--
Sam: Taliesin's on an iPhone 2 over there.
Marisha: This is just going great. Fuck it. We'll do it off the cuff.
Taliesin: Well no, I remember some of them.
Sam: One of them was Taliesin's announcement that he has some show on Wednesday nights.
Marisha: Wednesday Club.
Taliesin: I do. Wednesday at noon to two on this very Twitch channel, is the Wednesday Club, and this week we're gonna be talking about Image Comics, which is now about 25 years old. This is the thing, and we're gonna talk about how they started and why it's important, and then all the cool stuff they're doing today, which is some really cool stuff. Good books.
Marisha: There's also a new Signal Boost, with Stefanie Woodburn and Eric Campbell is out-- ooh, there it is. Merch! Merch. Dice. Are out of stock.
Laura: The dice are out of stock, you guys.
Marisha: Dice are out of stock.
Sam: Don't worry, we'll get like three more.
Marisha: Gilmore shirts. The Gilmore shirts are still up, along with socks, vinyl stickers, mugs, patches, bracelets, pins, hats, nail wraps, logo shirts, the disturbingly comfortable 'How do you want to do this?' t-shirt and hoodie, and more, but not really more. That's actually I think everything. (all laugh)
Marisha: I just felt like I needed a finale to that. Oh, GM Tips!
Matt: Oh, that's right! New episode of GM Tips went up today. This one is about how to design and write your own one-shot. It goes through the process of initial story design and how to prepare encounters and NPCs and be ready for a one-shot circumstance for a single-run arc. These tips can also be expanded upon to do multiple sessions or a full arc, or even a full campaign. But these are little bite-sized condensed tips, so I hope they're helpful and inspiring so people can learn a thing or two about running a one-shot or more. So check it out. Marisha, you--
Sam: Taliesin just made a robot.
Matt: That's actually pretty rad.
Taliesin: Hello.
Matt: You had an announcement, if I recall.
Marisha: Yes! I can officially announce as of yesterday that I am one of the new hosts of Gamestop TV. (all cheer)
Marisha: So if you walk into a Gamestop, you can see my dumb face talking to you about games and all that stuff, along with Chris, who's been there since the beginning, but yeah.
Matt: Since the Triassic.
Marisha: Yeah, exactly.
Liam: We are so proud.
Marisha: I'm a little kooky.
Laura: You're always a little kooky, Marisha.
Marisha: That's true.
Liam: That's you.
Matt: It's like you were the harbinger of the end of the circle of life for Gamestop.
Marisha: Yeah, it's like the ouroboros kinda thing.
Matt: You know what I'm talking about.
Laura: Oh my god. Lego Batman head's gonna be my dice jail tonight. That's an important announcement.
Marisha: And last but not least, as always, Talks Machina's live on Tuesday nights at 7PM on Twitch, with the illustrious Brian Foster. And don't forget, 'cause I feel like not a lot of people are doing this really, and I see so much, don't forget to submit your gif and fanart of the week to the contest, and use talksmachina@gmail.com to do that. Put it in the subject, be like, 'contest entry', because that helps people who are poring through your emails.
Matt: There you go.
Sam: 17 more announcements, guys.
Marisha: That's it. That's all we have.
Matt: Good, great!
Marisha: Done and done.
Matt: All righty. That being the case, let's go ahead--
Travis: Twins!
Matt: Twins.
Liam: Twins.
Matt: -- and bring it in to tonight's episode of Critical Role. (opening credits)
Matt: Welcome back. So, to get you guys up to speed for tonight's episode, Vox Machina, our band of adventurers, after defeating the Chroma Conclave, destroying Thordak and then Raishan, the mastermind behind their ascension, you then recovered a few objects of possible-- revealing her plans, at the very least, though keeping it tempered. You've begun closing loose ends that you hadn't had the time to get to at this point, including finishing Keyleth's Aramente. You managed to charter a ship and crew at Emon to head towards the west, the Ozmit Sea, where you were boarded temporarily by what appeared to be a band of pirates. Defeating them and sinking the ship, you continued forward, taking a prisoner.
Laura: A friendly prisoner. We're friendly taking a prisoner. Nicely taking a prisoner.
Travis: What history do you remember?
Matt: You then eventually found yourselves, the ship reaching the outside of the Anamn Mountains-- Anamn Islands. It's been a long week.
Travis: Yeah, man.
Matt: Where the ship set anchor on the outside of the reefs that encircle the center of these three islands, where in the center of them lies a partially submerged city of Vesrah, the last stop on Keyleth's Aramente and the water ashari that live there. You, upon arriving just past sunset, watched the city come to life, and the Vesrah come out, and upon discovering that you were allies, or at least friendly, they took you in and gave you the idea of what you had to do to finish this Aramente. Your task, to come the following day, was to be led down into the Aerie of Torrent, where the elemental rift to the water elemental plane resides, under protection, and you were to retrieve three lodestones, magical stones that are occasionally farmed from the water elemental plane as they fade from power. These stones are utilized, apparently, in both keeping the rift contained and keeping the city of Vesrah aloft and up towards the air. However, in the process of them researching where these lodestones came from, it was discovered in the most recent years that they were byproducts of one of the krakens that lives in the water elemental plane, and--
Laura: Kraken, plural?
Matt: There are a number of krakens. This one, however, was drawn back to the rift from one of the earlier expeditions of the Waveriders that were attempting to find them, and now has taken up its lair on the outskirts of this rift, so your task, as Vox Machina, is to enter the rift into the water elemental plane, find and bring back three of these lodestones, and do so without slaying the kraken, as it is an important part of the ecology and continued existence of the city of Vesrah. So. That's where we come up. So as it is evening, you've been fed, a largely fish- and marine-based meal, and you've had the opportunity to speak with some of the locals and prepare and discuss amongst yourselves exactly what you wish to do for this journey tomorrow. So.
Marisha: So what time is it here?
Matt: I mean, it's probably-- post-food and mild celebration of you guys making it here in the first place? They don't get too many intentional travelers. Most of the people that come here are either shipwrecked, saved by the Waveriders in the middle of storms, and some of them stay and end up joining the Vesrah. They have a number of reformed pirates. People that almost died at sea or drowned but were saved by them and eventually joined them. But I'd say it's about... maybe close to 10PM, the equivalent.
Marisha: Oh, it's late.
Laura: I feel like we should--
Matt: You got here just after dusk.
Laura: We should have a Heroes' Feast before tomorrow. I have no idea what a kraken does, or--
Marisha: Me neither. Actually, is Uvenda still around? She's still there, are we still in front of her?
Matt: Uvenda is around, yeah. You can find her. As you approach her, she's finished her meal and is half-napping in this, almost a high chair, though it's built beautifully of what look to be petrified bleach-white shells and coral structures. This looks to be her seat at this open natural gazebo-like eating space. She's half-resting off to the side with her staff, leaning off a bit, and as you start approaching, one eye flies open and rolls in your direction, and she leans forward. "Young Keyleth. What do you require?"
Marisha: Sorry. I hope I'm not interrupting.
Matt: "My nap, yes, but you seem intent. What do you wish?"
Marisha: I was just curious, I guess, if you had any advice for tomorrow morning. Is there anything I should know in particular about the kraken?
Matt: "From what we know, the kraken is a very hungry beast. It carries with it a swarm of long, grasping tentacles. It moves unimpeded and destroys structures in its path. Seems nigh-unstoppable, which is why maintaining the rift is so important. To unleash more of these entities into our plane would be disastrous, not just for our city, but for the entirety of the Ozmit. Do be aware that you will be encountering this beast deep, deep in the fathomless depths of the water elemental plane, so be prepared best you can to swim."
Marisha: Right. You mentioned it being hungry. What does it hunger for?
Matt: "Anything that crosses its path. You'll see, the sand below the vicinity of the rift is partially soot, dirt, and sand, but a lot of it is sprinkled bone of things that failed to make it through the rift."
Marisha: And I imagine it's pretty dark down there.
Matt: "It's not the brightest place, no."
Laura: How large are these lodestones that we're looking for?
Matt: "We will show you these down in the Aerie tomorrow, but they're roughly--" and she gives a motion about that big in her hands. "About that large. But you can take time and research the ones that are dwindling within the temple. That way, you'll know what to look for."
Liam: And in all your experience with these beasts, are their attacks mainly physical?
Matt: "Mainly. However, they have a degree of control over the waters that surround them. Those who have returned, the Waverunners who do these passes every few years, they speak of currents swiftly changing, it leaving bursts of darkened ink-like material to obstruct the space. And they speak of sudden surges of energy that rock through the nearby waters."
Laura: Great.
Travis: So we need snorkels.
Laura: Lots and lots of snorkels.
Liam: Long ones.
Marisha: Are there other creatures that live in the rift?
Matt: "There are creatures, but those of flesh and bone usually find themselves in the belly of the beast, and due to the nature of its presence, and the rift's energy, elementals do occasionally wander half-crazed, directionless in that space as well. So be careful."
Marisha: All right. Is there a particular creature that you know is good at evading this kraken?
Matt: "Our Waverunners. They travel usually in various forms of their mer-form."
Marisha: All right.
Matt: "Anything that can swim quickly, swiftly, search fast, and retrieve and return. Whatever that is to you, that's your choice."
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: Keyleth, I know you have the ability to turn us into different things.
Marisha: Yes.
Laura: Is it possible to turn us into water elementals?
Marisha: No, that's--
Laura: It's not a thing.
Marisha: -- that's not really a beast. I can turn you into--
Travis: Like a great herd of dolphins that we can commandeer?
Taliesin: Sea cows.
Travis: Yeah. And then just ride them--
Laura: Manatees.
Liam: Manatees.
Laura: Narwhals!
Travis: They do have a spike.
Taliesin: The worst of like five worlds.
Liam: The unicorns of the sea.
Marisha: Well, I know that Taryon and I can alter ourselves into merfolk.
Sam: Yes.
Marisha: And you can also-- how many people can you imbue with your powers?
Sam: To become underwater sea-breathers?
Marisha: Yeah, could you give Alter Self to others?
Sam: I mean, technically, I could. It would use a lot of my spell abilities, but I could give four of my little coins to people, and those coins could be used to alter yourself to be a water-breathing madman like me.
Laura: Merfolk?
Sam: Well, sort of. Just you, but with gills.
Laura: What if we want to be a mermaid, though?
Sam: Sure, yeah, you could do that.
Laura: Okay, sweet.
Matt: With the Alter Self, you can give yourself gills and webbed hands, and you would gain a swim speed of your normal walking speed.
Laura: And a seashell bra.
Matt: Should that be your preference, sure. As she begins to talk about the--
Travis: For all of us.
Taliesin: Oh, yeah. Oh, please.
Marisha: Definitely.
Taliesin: We're all on board.
Liam: This all she talked about from ages six to 13. Only thing.
Marisha: (sings) We are the daughters of Trident!
Travis: (sings) I want to go where the people are.
Liam: Look at our DM.
Matt: "Anyway."
Sam: I could also think of a spell that would give you a clever Rastafarian crab sidekick.
Laura: Ooh, I like it. Oh, Trinket!
Taliesin: Turn Trinket into a--
Marisha: Oh my gosh! Yeah! Yeah!
Taliesin: Okay, okay. Gotta put the foot down before this gets weird.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: I agree. Let's talk about this over a Heroes' Feast. How's that?
Laura: Yeah, but a midnight feast like--
Taliesin: We're not doing Hero's Brunch?
Laura: No, 'cause that would waste a spell on the day.
Travis: Keyleth? I don't think she's done talking.
Marisha: Who? What?
Matt: "Just be warned..."
Marisha: Sorry, we get carried away.
Matt: "I would recommend taking some time in the water first. Learn how it reacts to you and you react to it. Know that the limitations of not combating in air can be restrictive."
Laura: Makes sense. I don't know how my bow's going to work underwater.
Taliesin: I don't know how my guns are going to work underwater.
Marisha: Do you have a training ground? Like an arena that's kind of comparable we can test in tonight?
Matt: "Tonight? We could escort you to one of the more deep areas in Vesrah if you'd like."
Travis: Does it have to be tonight?
Sam: Well, yes, if we want to recover all our abilities for tomorrow.
Marisha: We're leaving in the morning.
Travis: Oh. Right, yeah. Good point.
Marisha: Do we want to practice now and eat later, or eat now and practice later?
Laura: Practice for an hour, have a midnight feast.
Travis: I hear you're not supposed to fight or kill anything for 30 minutes after you eat.
Laura: Right.
Taliesin: At least 30 minutes.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: So fight first, and then snack.
Marisha: So fight first. Yeah, we shouldn't swim after eating.
Taliesin: You'll just get a cramp.
Marisha: Cramps.
Liam: Even that's a pretty big number for you.
Travis: I just say it, I don't know what it means. 30.
Matt: All right. You guys are escorted over four or five structures past the main eating thoroughfare into an area that quickly descends. The beach drops down into about a ten, 15-foot depth. You can see this area is almost like a farming ground for bits of kelp and other sea plants that are just maintained for food.
Marisha: So we're doing this in the morning, right? We're leaving first thing?
Matt: You guys just said you were doing it before--
Laura: No, no, no, no, no, yes. We're doing that, but we're leaving in the morning.
Marisha: No, we're leaving in the morning though, at dawn.
Matt: Yeah, tomorrow is when you actually venture down to the Aerie.
Sam: At dawn, we swim.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: At dawn, we swim. Then I'm going to go ahead and cast Water Breathing on all of us now, because it lasts for 24 hours.
Matt: Okay. So how many targets can you do with that?
Laura: Can we still breathe on land?
Marisha: Up to ten, I believe.
Sam: No. (laughs)
Marisha: I think it's up to ten. Let me double-check. I'm pretty sure it's ten.
Matt: Oh, don't worry. In older editions, there were arguments, because they didn't specify.
Laura: Yeah? Ooh.
Liam: Oh, great.
Taliesin: You have to sleep with a glass of water by the bed.
Laura: Sleep in a fishbowl.
Matt: All right, so between all of you, including Trinket, you guys are able to imbue, for the next 24 hours, Water Breathing onto the party.
Marisha: Ten. Willing creatures.
Matt: Ten willing creatures, perfect. Ah, Doty does not need it. Doty does not breathe. All right, so you guys, you feel this strange kind of sensation as the air seems to change in your lungs, but still function. It's a bit colder, and as you slowly submerge yourself in the water, you dip underneath, and the instinct is to hold your breath for as long as you can. It's that natural survival instinct, but the moment you give in and allow yourself to inhale you panic for a moment but then regulate, for a moment, and feel the water cycle through. It's cold. It chills the interior of your lungs a bit, but you can breathe fine. Speaking's still a bit of an issue. It's still a kind of a garbled-- there's no air passing past the vocal cords.
Travis: (garbled) I'm peeing. I'm peeing in the water right now.
Liam: (garbled) Three hours of this.
Laura: Can we see under the water? How's our perc--
Travis: Visibility.
Laura: Visibility?
Matt: Your visibility is as good as it would be underwater. It's murky. It's difficult to get a very clear view of anything beyond maybe a 20-foot span. Plus, this is nighttime. It's dark.
Laura: What about Percy with his glasses? I mean, could we do some sort of goggle things, so we can see better?
Taliesin: We could try to craft some goggles.
Liam: You put 'em away. Didn't you?
Laura: So that we could see underwater.
Liam: Aren't they for close up?
Taliesin: Yeah, they are for close up, but they're not attached to my-- water could get in.
Laura: Oh.
Travis: Do you want me to hold your glasses again for you?
Matt: You would have to ask, probably, for materials to do that.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: You don't have anything to craft goggles.
Liam: You don't want to lose them in the ocean. Maybe put them away?
Taliesin: Yeah, I'll put them in, I've got a pocket.
Liam: Just, just don't open it.
Sam: Crafting goggles. Would it be helpful to craft something that would allow us to speak? Or--
Laura: I don't know if there's time for all of that. It'd be great, though. Tary, you're really good at crafting, right?
Sam: I am, I would say the best at crafting, actually. I've spent my whole life doing it.
Laura: All right, could you make something like that in like an hour?
Sam: I have no idea. But the adventure is to try, right? And I certainly will give it a go.
Taliesin: My big question is, what am I going to do with my guns?
Travis: Go find out.
Laura: Yeah, I'm going to try to shoot an arrow and see what happens.
Marisha: Yeah, go find out, that's why we're here, man.
Matt: Okay, you pull back and release the arrow, and it does fire, but it fires much slower and is impeded. It only gets about half as far, and even then with a dull thud.
Laura: Does it-- It doesn't seem like it pierces any?
Matt: It functions, but essentially the-- and this goes for any ranged attacks, most ranged attacks I should say, and melee attacks are at disadvantage underwater.
Travis: What!
Matt: And ranged attacks don't go further than their first range increment.
Laura: So what would that be?
Taliesin: I'm gonna have to look up my first range increment
Matt: So if you look at your bow, and it says like, you know, 60 feet, 120 feet, you know, for first increment, second increment.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Uh-huh.
Matt: It's disadvantage, and anything past that first increment is an automatic miss. It just stops in the water.
Laura: Oh no!
Liam: So, for example, daggers'--
Travis: Thank you, Ryan.
Laura: Thank you, Ryan.
Liam: -- short distance is 20 feet.
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: I could throw it 20 feet at disadvantage.
Matt: And that's as far as it'll go.
Liam: Gameplay wise, game mechanics.
Matt: Also, your movement speed is halved.
Travis: Son of a bitch!
Liam: This is awesome!
Taliesin: Unless we web.
Laura: So, for a longbow.
Matt: Unless you have webbed fingers, or you know, use Alter Self
Taliesin: Or turn into dolphins, or--
Marisha: We could be great whites.
Laura: Ooh! Let's be sharks.
Taliesin: Swordfish.
Marisha: We could be sharks.
Laura: Or we could be merpeople.
Marisha: I can also change us whenever we feel like being something else.
Taliesin: Eels. Electric eels.
Marisha: It just takes a turn. Rock it like an electric eel!
Laura: How do I find out how far a longbow can shoot?
Taliesin: Not that I don't know this isn't going to work, but I'm going to try and see if I can get, even with like maybe an electric pulse, if I can light the powder. If the powder's wet, the powder's wet. Once I open that thing--
Matt: The minute you submerge your gun, the powder is wet. Your firearms will not function underwater.
Taliesin: They're not going to function underwater.
Matt: I'm sorry, Percy.
Taliesin: It's okay. No, I'd be worried if they did.
Matt: All right, so for the longbow, your first range increment is 150 feet, so you're okay.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: But anything beyond that, not functional.
Laura: Done, okay.
Travis: So, all melee attacks are at disadvantage, because you're swinging through water.
Matt: Correct. Yeah, you're going against resistance in the water.
Travis: Fucking hate the ocean now.
Taliesin: So there's no way to put a bubble around me or anything, is there?
Marisha: Sorry.
Laura: Yeah but, oh.
Sam: A bubble around what?
Travis: Like an airtight bubble.
Taliesin: Like some sort of bubble.
Sam: Ooh.
Liam: So you think if your bullets were to pierce out through this bubble, they could still go a ways.
Taliesin: Or I could even put the tip of the gun out of the bubble.
Laura: Wait, you can shoot into water.
Taliesin: And fire, but as long-- the combustion has to happen in air.
Travis: Yeah, yeah, be in a closed airtight space with a firearm, that will do wonders for your ears.
Sam: The firearm.
Taliesin: How do you even know all this?
Travis: Oh, sorry.
Sam: The firearm has to be enclosed, not you.
Taliesin: Not me, just the firearm.
Sam: But it would only last one shot. Blow a hole in the side, then water would get out.
Taliesin: Well, if I could have it around just the combustion point, and have the barrel sticking out of the point, that might be a thing.
Sam: That might be something we could try to make, I suppose.
Taliesin: Out of what?
Sam: We could take apart Trinket. That's your bear, right?
Taliesin: We're not taking apart the bear.
Sam: That's your robot bear. We could take apart that.
Laura: He's a real bear, Tary, he's a real bear.
Sam: Oh, well then, never mind.
Laura: Hm.
Travis: Could you make some sort of cavernous hole out of Doty's chest?
Sam: We don't touch Doty.
Taliesin: Okay, I've got a crazy idea.
Travis: I mean, I'll touch Doty, but--
Matt: What's your crazy idea?
Sam: We lure the kraken onto land.
Laura: He's still formulating it.
Taliesin: I wanna, I wanna build--
Laura: Through a portal, into--
Taliesin: I wanna build a watertight vest for the guns. Basically just a packet that keeps that section dry. Like a protective-- like a soft bag that is waterproof, that would use some sort of stomach lining of some animal or some leather to build it. I couldn't reload the gun.
Matt: No, you'd probably only get one shot each.
Taliesin: One shot, or would it just be one shot-- yeah, 'cause it might--
Matt: 'Cause it would pierce the containment.
Taliesin: Well, like it would-- just around everything but the-- well, the barrel would then have to be--
Matt: The barrel would then fill with water.
Taliesin: That's--
Marisha: Tary?
Taliesin: One shot each.
Sam: Yes, Antlers?
Marisha: Respect. Can I imbue one of your mystical coins with one of my spells that we give to other people or is that kind of your thing?
Sam: I mean, if you inspected them, you would know that they say 'T.D.' on them. They're sort of personal to me. I've had them minted.
Marisha: Oh, sure, yeah. I'm sorry. I'm farsighted. So sorry.
Sam: I don't think that would work. It's sort of a thing that I can do and I'm pretty cool at it.
Marisha: I did not mean any offense.
Sam: None taken. I respect the question and I respect you wanting to work with someone of my skill set and aptitude. I saw your work back there at the last fight and, well, the gunslinger was rendered useless and everyone else was fighting on the other boat against lesser allies. Uh, enemies, I mean. You and I held off that beast together and it was quite amazing to watch.
Marisha: I mean, you're gonna take full credit for it later, aren't you?
Sam: I made the kill. It was 100% mine.
Marisha: All right. No, that's fine. I mean-- you know--
Sam: But you were there and it was a good assist and I appreciate it.
Marisha: (laughs weakly) Moving on. Back to planning.
Taliesin: I'm going to need some way of defending myself or I'm going to have to take an animal form.
Marisha: I could give you an animal form.
Taliesin: I may have to have an animal form.
Travis: Like what?
Marisha: Shark?
Travis: Barracuda!
Taliesin: It's kind of small, isn't it?
Laura: A little yellow fish. A little yellow fish that's very friendly.
Taliesin: A very friendly yellow fish. I was thinking maybe some sort of half-octopus merperson.
Travis: Does that exist?
Marisha: I've gotta give you something kind of real. Kind of beastly. But it is challenge rating four or lower, which is awesome. That's cool.
Travis: I have a question for you.
Matt: Yes?
Travis: I have two vials of underwater breathing from a long time ago. How long do those last?
Matt: Let me check, actually.
Travis: Like an hour?
Sam: I have a question for you as well.
Matt: All right. What is your question?
Sam: My rod of mercurial form.
Matt: Yes?
Sam: We know that it can turn into a crossbow?
Matt: One hour.
Travis: One hour?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: How many crossbow arrows do I own? Any?
Matt: Yeah, you would have 40.
Sam: 40! Okay, great.
Matt: They're just regular bolts. They're bolts, not arrows.
Sam: Thank you.
Matt: You're welcome.
Travis: Do we know if the kraken is considered Thordak-sized or, humongous?
Matt: You have no idea, but the stories say immense.
Travis: Immense.
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: They could take down a ship, right?
Matt: Yeah, from what you've heard.
Liam: Yeah, I mean, fairy tales tell about them pulling ships under the water, breaking them in half.
Laura: I have a little poison bolt. Do you want one? I've just been holding onto it. If you have a crossbow?
Sam: Yes, I would love that. Thank you. How much do I owe you for it?
Laura: 50,000 gold.
Sam: It seems like you're just fucking with me. (all laugh)
Taliesin: He's catching on.
Sam: Let's call it an even five gold.
Laura: Hm, I'll take it. I was just gonna gift it to you, but I'll take the gold.
Sam: Well, I don't want there to be any sort of implied favors or anything that I have to return later. If you're all right with it, I'd like to just keep this business, thank you.
Laura: I do still want an Alter Self coin.
Sam: I mean, are we doing that? I can do four of those Alter Self coins.
Travis: Would that take away the speed halving? If we had webbed hands and feet, would that--
Matt: Yeah, you'd then have normal speed through the water.
Laura: See, that's pretty great.
Matt: For the record, with swimming, you're essentially flying, too, I mean, as far as in water. You can swim in an up and down direction as well.
Laura: That's cool.
Taliesin: When I'm an animal, none of my bonuses--
Travis: Right. So, Boots of Feral Leaping, I don't really-- unless we're on the bottom of the ocean.
Matt: It's not gonna help you.
Travis: Right.
Marisha: You keep your bonuses.
Taliesin: My bonuses stay. So, my vestige will actually--
Marisha: Yeah. I think so. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Taliesin: We'll find out, I suppose.
Matt: If what?
Taliesin: If the vestiges will be functional while I'm in animal form.
Marisha: Wait, we're still underwater, right? (garbled underwater speech)
Laura: Yeah, all of this conversation has been happening underwater. We're surfacing and talking and going back under.
Sam: Yeah, we're treading water.
Matt: The target's gear melds into the new form. The target can't activate, wield, or otherwise benefit from any of its equipment.
Marisha: With Animal Shapes?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: So, you can't benefit from your equipment.
Matt: Right.
Liam: Does that negate all my class boosting and all that?
Matt: All that you get in the form of the creature. If you become a creature that has an armor class of 11, you have an armor class of 11.
Liam: What about these merpeople?
Matt: Alter Self, you keep all your stuff and just gain the ability to swim underwater.
Marisha: And it's our movement speed, which isn't very fast.
Matt: Correct, but it's better than half your movement speed.
Marisha: Correct.
Matt: Which is really not very fast. So your call.
Marisha: Could killer whales give us a movement speed of 60 swim feet?
Travis: We're not fucking whales.
Taliesin: I'm turning into one.
Marisha: He was into sharks, but he has something against whales.
Liam: I mean, don't knock it.
Travis: (whale noises)
Marisha: They're faster.
Laura: Are they?
Marisha: Yeah, they are.
Laura: Yeah, but what if the kraken sees it?
Marisha: It says in the book that they are definitely faster.
Travis: Maybe orcas, but they're not whales, right?
Taliesin: They're not actually whales. They're orca.
Travis: They're like porpoises and shit.
Taliesin: They-- yeah, like with cool tattooing.
Marisha: You guys were down with manatees, but have something against killer whales? I feel like our priorities are off.
Taliesin: Look, we can have different animals. Like, he can shark and I can whale.
Liam: Also, I know it's always been a waste of time, our planning, but we're not even talking about what we're going to try to do. Are we going to try to distract this fucker and take his lodes or--
Marisha: I mean, if we use Pass Without A Trace, right?
Laura: Yeah?
Marisha: I mean, Pass Without A Trace should still work underwater. If we're all something super stealthy, we move super fast, get there, and get out.
Laura: Let me make sure Pass Without A Trace is not concentration.
Travis: Important question. Do we know if the elemental plane is more like the waters off the Cayman Islands and it's crystal clear for hundreds of feet or is it like more murky, boggish Louisiana, Gulf of Mexico-type water?
Marisha: It seems like it's Marianas Trench levels. Seems like--
Matt: Yeah, it's pretty dark. From what you've heard and what they've talked about, the water elemental plane, most of it feels like you're a mile beneath the surface of the ocean.
Liam: Oh, shit.
Laura: We have to be animals that can grab things.
Travis: Light is also important.
Matt: There is a little bit of light that comes through. You do have some visibility, though the source is difficult to really ascertain.
Marisha: Here's my thought. Certain of us are gonna be better under the water with our natural forms and some of us aren't. Half of us go... (laughs)
Sam: Ooh, I like this. She is smart.
Marisha: Half of us are animals. The other half can ride them in our Alter Self forms like a SeaWorld show.
Sam: Yes, yes, absolutely. I volunteer to be a rider or a captain of the ship sort of.
Taliesin: If we throw a little bit of rope together, we can make some quick harnesses, including harnesses that include a little bit of a netting for the stones as we get them.
Sam: A harness around the big man? I think that would be quite a formidable steed.
Travis: You back the fuck up right now.
Sam: All right. Just strategizing, chum.
Travis: I understand that.
Marisha: Because I can Alter Self at will and you have to take a spell slot, or can you do it at will?
Sam: I don't know what "at will" means, but I'm very impressed.
Marisha: Yes.
Travis: That's not a terrible idea, 'cause I'm gonna be able to do dick diddly shit in there. That's, like, zero.
Marisha: It means one of us might have to borrow your bag of holding.
Travis: No, I'm out. I'll stay on the land.
Marisha: Tary, you had a bag of holding, right?
Sam: I do.
Marisha: All right!
Sam: What do we need it for? Oh, to put the--
Marisha: The lodestones in.
Sam: The things in that we're finding. Oh, yes, yes, of course and they would be great keepsakes.
Marisha: No, you cannot keep them.
Sam: Oh, well, if we find an extra one, perhaps I could take that back as a--
Liam: Question.
Sam: Yes?
Liam: I'm obviously a fan of stealth, right? But when we go in there and it all fucks up like it does nine times out of ten and the thing sees us anyway, what are we doing?
Laura: Run!
Marisha: Run.
Liam: Without the lodes? With the lodes?
Taliesin: Well, those of us who can swim quite quickly will try and evade. We'll try and hide and keep looking for them.
Laura: Distract him.
Liam: But we don't wanna hurt this thing, so what are we doing? Interference and distract and a couple of us try to smash and grab?
Travis: Yeah, diversion.
Taliesin: Diversion, scatter, grab, and run.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: Only attack if truly necessary.
Sam: New guy here--
Travis: Bait. I like it. Way to volunteer, captain.
Sam: No, nope, nope. New guy here, just a process question. I'm new to these sort of strategy "seshes" that you guys have. Is this how it always is, with people just throwing out random bad ideas constantly for, like, 15 minutes?
Liam: Yeah.
Taliesin: That's about right.
Liam: We do that and then we kind of take it like jazz on the day, you know?
Sam: Wow, because I really-- this is a big fight for me. I've never fought anything quite so big. Is there a chance that we might perish?
Marisha: Yes.
Taliesin: Pretty good.
Travis: No, we're fine.
Sam: Because it doesn't seem like we have a good plan right now.
Taliesin: Well, that's the thing about these sorts of encounters, is that any plan you have is pretty much going to be out the window the minute you see it anyway.
Sam: All right.
Liam: If it makes you feel any better, this feels less asinine than many things that we've done before.
Sam: That does make me feel better.
Laura: It's true. Half of us are animals, half of us are riders.
Taliesin: Half more a plan than we normally have.
Liam: I once teleported into the belly of a dragon with another jackass and that went tits up fast.
Sam: That sounds like the stupidest fucking plan I've ever heard.
Liam: I'm still breathing.
Travis: Yeah.
Taliesin: It's much like those people who give you instructions of how to survive an encounter with a tiger. It's that, you think about it, but you've never actually met anybody who's said, "Yes, I've met a tiger, that's exactly what I did and I'm fine." No, anybody who does that's probably been eaten anyway. It's a terrible idea. You don't try and look bigger, you don't do any of that. You're gonna get eaten.
Marisha: It's true.
Sam: I've read some of those.
Taliesin: You survive an encounter by a tiger by running really quickly in the other direction or hopefully hacking it to death before it kills you.
Sam: All right.
Liam: You know, just between you and me, this does sound really fucking stupid.
Marisha: Tigers aren't that bad.
Taliesin: Well, it was just my suggestion.
Travis: So, if four of us are fast water creatures, right? Something that swims quick? What's our diversion? I volunteer as tribute.
Marisha: Well, if you drop back down to zero hit points, you'll revert back to your normal form, being able to water breathe, full hit points.
Travis: That would be a bad case scenario, 'cause I'm really slow, in that case.
Marisha: Yes.
Travis: All sorts of fucked.
Marisha: Uh-huh.
Travis: How many hit points does a killer whale have?
Marisha: 90.
Travis: Oh, god, I thought you said nine. I nearly shit my pants.
Marisha: 90.
Taliesin: Let's see, what can we do?
Marisha: I don't know if there's anything else better.
Laura: The thing is, the kraken might be able to swallow you whole, Grog.
Liam: Yeah.
Travis: They have mouths?
Laura: I don't know how big they are.
Travis: No, they have tentacles.
Laura: No, but they've got-- Don't they have beaks, like a squid?
Travis: I didn't hear anything about a beak or a mouth.
Liam: Who hasn't seen a drawing of a squid or a kraken in a fairy tale book? They're disgusting.
Travis: Book.
Taliesin: Maybe-- we have one night. Maybe I could try and craft some sort of concussion explosive.
Marisha: I also don't want you tired tomorrow.
Taliesin: It wouldn't probably hurt it, but it would at least maybe shock it. Give it a-- stun it? To just blow something up underwater?
Marisha: There's something that I want to try really quick, if you guys could back up or maybe get out of the water. I want to see if I can cast spells underwater.
Laura: Yeah, yeah. I'm out.
Taliesin: Well, all right.
Marisha: I also want to see what lightning does, so if you don't want to get electrocuted.
Liam: As soon as those two start talking about that, I get out of the water and start attuning the Deathwalker's Ward to lightning.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Very clever.
Marisha: I love that this is all under the assumption that we just had this planning sesh underwater.
Laura: No, we were treading water.
Marisha: Oh, we're treading. Okay.
Travis: I'm staying in the water because I wanna feel the lightning.
Marisha: You wanna see?
Taliesin: You wanna ride the lightning.
Travis: Yep.
Marisha: I'm gonna tread back from Grog, go underwater, and I'm gonna do a Call Lightning bolt. See what happens.
Matt: Okay, Call Lightning, let me check real fast. Yes, okay. So, you begin to speak underwater. (burbling noises) Spell isn't coalescing.
Laura: Oh, no!
Marisha: Yeah, that's what I was curious about. That's exactly what I wanted. All right, then how about this? I take out my Spire and I do a Chain Lightning out of the Spire.
Matt: Do Chain Lightning out of the Spire? As you concentrate on the staff, the lightning arcs out of the staff and ends up searing and burning a small section of the floating kelp vines that are wandering up there.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Clears a little area.
Marisha: So I can cast out of the Spire. And-- cool. While I'm under there, I want to Beast Shape into a killer whale.
Matt: Okay. You turn into a killer whale. You are-- it is about 15 feet deep, so you are occupying a large portion of the water nearby. It's really hard to swim in this vicinity, especially with the density of kelp in the center of this dip.
Marisha: I goose Grog a little bit from underneath.
Travis: (yelps) I punch it. (all laugh)
Matt: Okay, roll for an attack.
Travis: I was watching, but not that close. That scared me, I'm sorry.
Taliesin: It's okay, it's an animal that already has a black eye.
Travis: Oh shit.
Marisha: It's fine. (laughs)
Travis: 25.
Matt: Okay. So, with your strength bonus--
Marisha: (laughs) Uh, yeah. That definitely hits.
Matt: -- you, (laughs), let's see. What's your strength bonus?
Travis: Eight.
Matt: Yeah, so you take, we'll say, nine points of bludgeoning damage as Grog just smacks you in the nose.
Liam: Right in the blubber.
Taliesin: To be fair, no worse than anything that happens to a killer whale at SeaWorld at that point.
Marisha: (laughs)
Travis: Oh, that's terrible.
Taliesin: Yeah, I went there, I'm so sorry. It's been there, I'm sorry!
Laura: Is there some sort of Alter Self spell that--
Marisha: (groans) Oh, no.
Liam: Change his alignment!
Marisha: Oh, no.
Taliesin: My personal alignment is already so far down.
Liam: (laughs)
Laura: Yeah, no, yeah, you're right.
Matt: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Marisha: I drop form out of shame. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Sorry!
Travis: Were you gonna-- you were gonna check your speed or something?
Sam: Oh.
Marisha: Well, I'm in like a tank.
Laura: Aw.
Marisha: Which is even worse, I know! This feels tactless, I'm out! (all laugh)
Taliesin: Shit got real on Critical Role.
Laura: I like how SeaWorld is was what was our line. Of tactless.
Taliesin: Yeah. Oh no, I know what--
Marisha: That's a good point!
Travis: All right Jesus Christ, let's move on!
Taliesin: I know where my money is going at the end of the evening.
Laura: Is there an Alter Self sort of spell that could make you be able to speak underwater? Is there anything that you can do that allows for speech?
Marisha: Well, if I do Alter Self--
Sam: Did you do Alter Self just now?
Marisha: Let me actually try that. I Alter Self.
Travis: Yeah. Oh. No polymorph.
Marisha: To be able to give myself--
Matt: Gills, right.
Marisha: Gills, and like, fins and stuff, and then-- now can I cast?
Matt: Unfortunately, because there's still water passing through your throat and vocal cords. If you get a full breath of air, you can get one spell off. And technically, with your breathing the water underneath, because you already had the gills in, it didn't work. You get a breath of air, and you cast the spell as the air leaves your lungs, but once you cast the spell, the air is gone.
Sam: No more spells.
Laura: What about merpeople? How do they talk to each other?
Sam: (dolphin noises)
Laura: Are there really merpeople? There are merpeople.
Liam: Frog sacs?
Taliesin: They have a different larynx system.
Travis: Dry-erase boards.
Taliesin: (laughs) Wet-erase boards. (all laugh)
Taliesin: I deserved what happened below the table. Last weird question, would it be possible-- could I basically just make a bag of air that we could carry that she could breathe in and have to breathe it in before casting the spell. Is that nuts?
Sam: Well, if I may. The big fellow over there said that he had some sort of vials that you could breathe air out of. Is that true?
Travis: They're supposed to let you breathe underwater. I don't know if it pumps your guts full of air or anything.
Sam: May I examine it?
Laura: It's Water Breathing, it's the spell Water Breathing.
Marisha: Yeah, what about my Water Breathing--
Sam: No, it's not.
Marisha: -- we should still be able to talk?
Matt: Water Breathing you can breathe the water, but when you still--
Marisha: Okay, but you can't go (garbled underwater noises).
Matt: -- but you can't, yeah. It's still water passing through the vocal cords--
Sam: What is the thing that you have?
Matt: -- which doesn't have the vibration to make the same sound.
Marisha: I think it's a potion of waterbreathing.
Laura: What if we use some sort of--
Travis: Underwater breathing.
Laura: -- cap, right? On Grog's jug. And it just makes air!
Sam: Hm.
Liam: Not a bad thought.
Taliesin: Make a skin.
Marisha: Could I speak into the jug-- clearly.
Taliesin: I was gonna say we could make a diving bell. But it would be very hard to travel with, but we could make a micro diving bell.
Laura: (laughs)
Marisha: What is a diving bell?
Travis: You guys, this is getting dumber and dumber. We will have a movement speed of one.
Taliesin: It's basically an upside-down pot that you stick your head in and you take a big breath of air, but the problem is moving with it is bad.
Travis: We can't move it.
Laura: Okay, okay, okay.
Travis: It'll go straight to the bottom.
Marisha: Killer whales?
Travis: Yep.
Laura: Whales and riders.
Marisha: And-- all right. Who's whales, who's riders?
Taliesin: Whales.
Travis: Whale.
Liam: Rider.
Marisha: Rider?
Laura: I guess I'll be a whale. Or Trinket could be a whale!
Marisha: Trinket could be a whale.
Taliesin: Or a shark.
Laura: I will ride Trinket.
Travis: Well, it needs to be one of you two.
Taliesin: You might want to go shark for one of them.
Travis: Trinket needs to go in the necklace 'cause of the odd man out.
Sam: Please don't leave me behind.
Marisha: I thought you were being a rider.
Sam: I would love to, but, there's no one to ride.
Laura: Can't we have two people on one whale? I feel like whales are very large.
Sam: That makes sense.
Matt: You could muster that, yes.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: Okay.
Taliesin: Especially if it's just handles, if it's just like hanging onto a piece of rope.
Marisha: All right, let's go eat food.
Matt: All right. You guys make your way out of the small kelp farming area, eventually back to complete your-- you're doing a Heroes' Feast?
Marisha: Yup.
Matt: Okay, so mark--
Laura: But like ice cream, and donuts, like a midnight snack kind of.
Travis: Easy, psycho.
Matt: That is totally doable.
Laura: Like, waffles and--
Marisha: Hot fudge sundae.
Laura: Yes.
Liam: This is the meal I was waiting on.
Taliesin: A Heroes' Sundae Bar.
Laura: Mm-hm.
Matt: The finest of gluttonous sweets available in Tal'Dorei are summoned upon this fine mahogany table that thrusts itself out of the sand. Everyone in the vicinity steps back and kind of, "Ooh, ahh," at this display of unexpected magic. Other folks step forward to try and take a piece from it, before somebody else stops them with a hand, "It's not for you!" You guys spend the next hour eating your meal, and gain the benefits of your Heroes' Feast! (all cheer)
Matt: So let's go ahead and--
Travis: Oh.
Taliesin: (sings Zelda music)
Liam: That's extra hit points, yeah?
Laura: Mm-hm!
Liam: How many?
Marisha: 2d10--
Matt: Yeah, Marisha rolls for you guys--
Liam: Roll for all of us.
Marisha: -- which I will roll for you right now, and we-- both are cocked. (singsong) Landed on the side. That one-- is that still cocked?
Taliesin: That's cocked.
Marisha: God damn it.
Travis: Take some of the dice out of your box.
Marisha: Shut up! An extra 11.
Matt: All right. So, 11 extra hit points to all you guys. Including Trinket, who scarfs up happily at the table.
Laura: Yay!
Taliesin: 11 hit points
Liam: No fear, no poison, advantage on saves, isn't it?
Marisha: Wisdom saves.
Liam: Wisdom saves.
Matt: Wisdom saves.
Taliesin: Wisdom saves. Advantage. No fear. No poison.
Marisha: No fear, no poison, 2d10.
Laura: Lovely. All right.
Matt: You got it.
Travis: Are we supposed to go research the lodestones before we go to bed, right? The ones that are failing?
Laura: Oh, maybe we could do it in the morning?
Matt: The morning is what you were told.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Going to bring you to the the Aerie of Torrent.
Taliesin: Are they heavy or are they light?
Laura: We'll find out.
Matt: So. As you guys are brought to your sleeping quarters, which are these semi-private huts elevated above the water, so they are actually about half a foot above the surface. You are each given a small chest, a soaked damp chest like the wood itself is just waterlogged through and through. As you open it, on the inside each of you receive what looks to be a leather band, with a circular stone affixed to the center of it.
Laura: If this is going to make us be able to fucking talk underwater--
Marisha: Oh, that will be super frustrating if we just took all that time. Or if this is one of those--
Taliesin: Vox Machina, solving problems that don't need to be solved.
Marisha: Solved-- making problems complicated for five years.
Travis: Why don't we put it on and see what it does?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. What do you do? There's a cluster of them at various--
Travis: Does the leather band attach at either end?
Matt: It has almost like a rudimentary belt clasp on both sides.
Travis: I'm going to put it around my neck like a dog collar, and I'm going to lay down in the water face first.
Matt: Okay, it warms as it touches the outside of the neck and it feels like there's a very loose-- almost a vibration to it.
Laura: (gasps) Talk, Grog!
Travis: (distorted, vibrational voice) This is really cool! (all laugh)
Taliesin: I put my ear in the water to see if I can hear him.
Matt: It does transfer your voice through the water.
Laura: That's awesome! What a waste of (sings) fucking time!
Travis: But, but--
Marisha: That's great.
Matt: (laughs) You didn't go back to--
Travis: But does it remedy the spell problem?
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yes.
Liam: Welcome to the cool kids' table, Tary.
Marisha: It does.
Laura: It does.
Matt: Yeah, it does.
Sam: It's amazing.
Matt: You guys can talk under water. There is still a limitation to the distance you travel 'cause sound is, you know.
Taliesin: Best of the best.
Matt: Actually, no sorry, the sound does travel further.
Taliesin: It does.
Matt: Underwater. Conduit.
Laura: Oh. So we have to be super quiet.
Matt: However, you also look within the case and each of them has what looks to be spherical, somewhat see-through domes of some glass-like material.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: You are also affixed with goggles, and you remember, looking back, you saw some of the people who were part of the troupe here, especially the guardians on the outside of the city, had the same similar goggle sets hanging around their neck.
Liam: Get the fuck out!
Laura: This is awesome!
Taliesin: Hello, water-based culture, would you happen to have some goggles lying around we could borrow, maybe something that's to communicate underwater, I don't know?
Liam: (makes ding noises to mimic hitting glass dome)
Marisha: We totally didn't.
Matt: Nobody asked-- but they were provided.
Marisha: We should have asked what equipment was available. (all laugh)
Matt: These are standard given to the Waveriders, the guardians that look on the outskirts of Vesrah.
Laura: What a fucking idiot.
Marisha: I feel stupid.
Liam: (gong noise)
Matt: (laughs)
Travis: Tary Jumbo--
Laura: We don't have giant domes on our heads.
Liam: I do. (all laugh)
Travis: I just thought of one thing for you, right? I went fishing this one time--
Matt: Just goggles.
Travis: -- and the lure that I had was really shiny and sparkly, like fish love sparkly things in the water. And I'm just noticing now that you are really shiny and sparkly kind of all over.
Laura: Oh.
Sam: Like a lure?
Travis: Yeah.
Taliesin: I was actually just contemplating that, because you know how frustrated you get opening up a crab when you're going to eat it--
Travis: I lost you at like the third word.
Taliesin: I wonder, would it be ironic if the kraken gets frustrated trying to peel off the armor? It'd just be a wonderful irony. I'm so sorry, sir.
Liam: I mean, that's funny, but it doesn't sound safe.
Taliesin: No.
Travis: What if we paint you in like black paint, or poo.
Marisha: Oh yeah, and that will immediately go away--
Laura: Oh yeah, that's smart.
Marisha: As we go underwater.
Laura: Oh.
Travis: All right, paint it is. Or tar.
Laura: Alter Self?
Travis: Should we tar him?
Marisha: If you Alter Self, right?
Taliesin: I don't know. Let's--
Marisha: Can you make yourself darkish?
Laura: Maybe you should be a whale.
Taliesin: Just not reflective.
Sam: I don't like any of this. When I was treading water before, was it difficult in armor? Was it--
Matt: Yeah! (all laugh)
Sam: And if I were to remove my armor, would I be weak and squishy?
Travis: You already are.
Matt: Yes. (all laugh)
Matt: That's a valid point.
Taliesin: That's a very fair point.
Matt: You have a breastplate, right?
Sam: Uh-huh.
Matt: Actually, it's heavy, but it's not super impeding you. It's heavy, but from a mechanical standpoint, it doesn't make it more difficult for you to swim. It's just more of a (heavy breathing). Yeah.
Sam: But it's shiny.
Matt: It is shiny. Your armor is shiny.
Travis: What if we put you, like, in a potato sack? So, you've still got your armor but it just doesn't twinkle.
Liam: That's not a bad idea at all.
Taliesin: He is not wrong, and that's not a bad idea.
Laura: Is there any burlap around?
Sam: I have a robe, I have a robe.
Marisha: Oh, okay.
Sam: I can just wrap myself in my robe.
Liam: It's not just as flashy as the armor though, is it?
Sam: It has some colorful patches on it, yes. But they're not shiny.
Laura: What if I stitch up the front?
Travis: No, no. Potato sack.
Laura: I just would hate for it to open up. I'm just gonna-- do you mind? If I just--
Marisha: Well, if it's dark--
Sam: Stitch up the front of my robe?
Laura: I'm really good at sewing.
Travis: Better not be flashy.
Sam: All right, I would, yes, thank you.
Laura: Yeah, I stitch up the front.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Thank you.
Laura: It'll be like a choir robe for you.
Liam: Good idea, Grog.
Laura: Yeah, that was smart.
Sam: Thank you so much.
Travis: Thanks. I go fishing a lot.
Sam: You lot are taking good care of me. I appreciate that. Thank you. This is going to be fun! Right? Tomorrow?
Laura: Fun, fun, fun!
Taliesin: Fun.
Sam: Yes?
Liam: Scary fun.
Taliesin: Scary fun.
Sam: All right.
Marisha: So much fun.
Taliesin: Technically speaking, we can't quite feel fear at the moment, can we? Or is it just a general malaise of fear? (all laugh)
Marisha: Yeah, I like, I like the latter. Malaise of fear.
Laura: I start working on the robe.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Really ugly stitches.
Matt: Yeah, it's, I mean, it takes you a while to get through the whole robe and get it done, and it's functional more than visually appealing. But you get the job done.
Sam: This reminds me of one of my caretakers when I was younger, stitching up some of my play clothes. It's a nice feeling. Thank you so much.
Laura: You're welcome, darling.
Marisha: While they're winding down, can I sneak away and see if I can find Uvenda?
Matt: Sure! It's not too difficult. She's in the same seat, snoring loudly, while two of her guardians stand at the side with their thin, polearm-like blades just watching as you approach, and she's just like (snores).
Marisha: I turn to her guards and say, do I wake her up? Does she not like being-- I don't want to be rude! But I kinda need to talk to her and I'm only here for a few more hours, and I--
Matt: One of them takes his bladed trident and hits her just gently on the side with the butt of it. She goes (snorts awake).
Marisha: Ah, that's how you do it.
Matt: "Ugh, yes, young Keyleth, hm."
Marisha: Hi.
Matt: She leans forward, putting on the presentation, but you can hear just that slight undertone of frustration. "What can I do for you?"
Marisha: Uh, yeah. I was just curious. I'm so sorry, first off--
Matt: "Keep talking, please. What do you want?" (all laugh)
Marisha: You mentioned that there were only remnants of my mother that came back. Was she defeated by the kraken, or do you think this was from another means? Do you have any more information on her?
Matt: "Child. There was little left of her and her allies. We found other pieces of her friends, but, pieces. Her leg was all we found. We could not recover much else, but the sea floor is littered with the many corpses and pieces of the kraken's various prey. It does not take much to ascertain the nature of her end."
Marisha: And you're sure of this? This is what the kraken does to people?
Matt: "What it does to anything that crosses its path. It eats to survive."
Marisha: Hm. I was just wondering. If there was any other potential explanation or--?
Matt: "I'm sure there is. There are many potential possibilities for anything that happens. I only have the information I was able to glean from the various scouts and teams."
Marisha: How long ago was this?
Matt: "This was four, five years back?"
Marisha: Really? All right. That's not that long, really. Did she stay long?
Matt: "A few days. Prepared for the journey much like you did. That was the last we saw of them."
Marisha: All right. I was just curious. Thank you.
Matt: "I wish I had different news for you."
Marisha: Did you keep anything? From what you found?
Matt: Her head turns curiously. "I fear I did not."
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: "We gave a quiet burial to what we were able to recover, but that's all."
Marisha: Well, I appreciate that much. Thank you for doing that.
Matt: "Of course, and once again, I am sorry for your loss, Keyleth."
Marisha: Oh. It's part of the duty.
Matt: "Yes. Yes, it is."
Marisha: Well, I should be getting my rest.
Matt: "Yes, you should."
Marisha: Yeah, big day! Swimming! Lots of calories! I'm gonna go now.
Matt: "Yes."
Marisha: All right, bye.
Matt: "Yes, you will. Goodbye."
Marisha: Goodnight.
Matt: (snores) Just conks right out again. Anything else you guys wish to do for the evening?
Liam: Well, I'm gonna follow Keyleth back to our room.
Matt: Mm-hm.
Liam: You all right?
Marisha: Did you just follow me? Were you following me just now?
Liam: No, I was waiting outside the door.
Marisha: Oh! All right, okay, yeah. Sorry. No, I'm good, I'm good.
Liam: I've seen the trouble behind your eyes all day, not surprisingly, yeah?
Marisha: I'm great.
Liam: Yeah?
Marisha: Yeah.
Liam: Okay.
Marisha: A lot, yeah. A lot riding on this, but-- A little surreal that we're here.
Liam: Long time coming.
Marisha: Yeah.
Liam: You know, you are already a river to your people.
Marisha: What?
Liam: I know that your life has built up to this moment in many respects. But your father is very proud of you. You've already done a lot. You silenced that dragon. You've done a lot.
Marisha: I'm just glad I have you all.
Liam: You know, I know that you struggle with doubt, and I don't think it's ever gonna go away for any of us. Especially for you. I think that's part of the job you're getting ready for. But I don't see it as a weakness. You know, all this time I've remembered Uriel. I'm not big on monarchies and the like, but I liked him.
Marisha: He was a good man.
Liam: Yeah. May his soul rest. And he had doubts. And he let them inform his decisions, and tried to do what was right. And the questions you have, I think they speak to your character.
Marisha: Uriel was also blinded by his unknowance of a lot of problems, so I just hope I don't follow in his footsteps in that regard.
Liam: Well, all the matters is what we leave behind us when we go. You've already done a lot of good. And you've taught me to be happy again. I'm very grateful to you. So, thank you.
Marisha: Thank you. For believing in me.
Liam: You make that easy.
Marisha: Anyway, we should get some sleep. It's a big day tomorrow.
Liam: Yeah. You know, I noticed, about a week ago? You were curious about my wings. I shoot them out.
Marisha: Heehee, hee. I pet them a little.
Liam: We have one hour. Fade to feathers.
Laura: (gasps) (all laugh)
Laura: (beatboxing)
Sam: Skyfuck!
Laura: Oh, shit!
Travis: I just want Vax and Keyleth to do the original Superman movie dialogue while he and Lois are flying.
Marisha: Oh god, that weird poetry! (all laugh)
Laura: Oh yeah--
Travis: "Can you hear my thoughts?"
Matt: Just like slow narration of Keyleth disembodied as they're both just flying over Vesrah at night.
Taliesin: I have a thing just for you.
Marisha: Is he God?
Travis: "Can you read my mind?" (all laugh)
Matt: Perfect.
Liam: I don't think they went anywhere.
Matt: That's perfect.
Taliesin: Just for you! Pass that down later.
Matt: All righty, so! Anyone else doing anything else?
Taliesin: I'm collecting some seashells, and taking a bit of a walk.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Derp.
Taliesin: And eventually, we're chilling.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I'm gonna brush Trinket.
Matt: (disgruntled bear noises)
Laura: You need it! You're dirty! (all laugh)
Matt: (more disgruntled bear noises) It's various knots and seawater clusters--
Laura: Yeah. Just gross.
Matt: It's just not fun. All right, so morning comes to, the sun rises, it's a warm day. But the waters are crystalline and beautiful as soon as you step out. And since you haven't been here during the daytime, you can see it's a paradise-like existence. The sands that fall beneath the waves are white, just bright bleached white, and the entire city seems like the middle of this distant, tropical paradise. The islands that do kind of flank in a triangular position, as the islands of Anamn, they are just lush and green and dense. You see no signs of civilization built across them. They are just unending canopies that swarm these masses of land that break past the ocean's surface in the distance, but here in Vesrah, the city cluster, it's beautiful. The water has almost a turquoise-type shimmer when you see the areas that are deeper. And you see, in various sections, where the sand drifts away, the sandbank vanishes into the reef, and there you can see just an array of colors that refract beneath the water's surface, as a gentle breeze kind of blows through in sections.
Liam: I want to go to there.
Matt: It's beautiful.
Laura: I want to spend the morning, before anyone else gets up, standing on the edge of the water and like letting my toes sink deeper and deeper as the waves--
Liam: That's nice.
Matt: Okay. You guys eventually gather your way for a morning meal, and you can see in the distance now some of the Waverunners are doing perimeters. And you can see that they have large sails that are up on these triangular-like pointed boards that curve up into horn-like javelins in the front, and they are coasting on them. Basically surfing across the waves in the distance, doing runs around the perimeter of the reef.
Laura: That's fucking sick!
Marisha: That's so cool!
Liam: Cool!
Matt: And they are wearing the same goggles and the same throat pieces you were given.
Laura: Ah!
Matt: This is part of the standard equipment that is given to the Waveriders as they check on the outside and the vicinity of Vesrah.
Liam: That one looks like Keanu Reeves! And that one looks like Patrick Swayze! (all laugh)
Sam: (Keanu Reeves as Johnny Utah impression) He's not coming back.
Matt: It's a clear sky, not a cloud visible. Beautiful blue above you. What do you do to prepare?
Liam: Oh, Jesus.
Marisha: Oh, I find Uvenda.
Matt: Okay. She's actually already waiting for you, as you guys-- she's been up, earlier than you were, and--
Marisha: I take some time in my morning prep to do a little meditation, and I take my flame hands and I do some like, traditional Ashari war paint, kinda thing, going on.
Travis: Sick.
Laura: Nice.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Nice, okay.
Marisha: Yeah. Oh, yeah.
Taliesin: Are we bringing the bear?
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: We're bringing the bear.
Laura: Trinket's gonna be a whale.
Marisha: Mm-hm.
Taliesin: All right.
Liam: Hopefully the whole time.
Marisha: As long as he doesn't hit zero hit points, then he won't turn into a bear. But he has water breathing!
Laura: If he hits zero, okay, I have a question.
Matt: Yes.
Laura: If he hits zero hit points--
Marisha: As a whale.
Laura: Does he go into the--
Matt: No.
Sam: Trinket-form.
Matt: The form reverts--
Laura: Would revert, and then--
Matt: Becomes Trinket at full hit points, carrying over any damage that happens. And remember only Trinket's, or any of your natural form, maintains the bonus hit points from your Heroes' Feast. Your animal form does not.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: So, you just have the base hit points of whatever creature form you take, and once you go to zero and revert back to yourself, or just revert back to yourself, then you have your hit points plus the Heroes' Feast.
Liam: And gameplay mechanics, can Trinket get walloped so hard that it passes all of his new form, plus Trinket form, and take him out?
Matt: If it was a shit-ton of damage, yeah.
Laura: It would have to be 150 points of damage. Thereabouts, 160.
Taliesin: Is it possible to grab a spare set of goggles and choker, just in case?
Matt: Asking around--
Taliesin: We'll return them all.
Matt: -- you approach Uvenda to ask this question. Even as you approach, they're looking out in the distance. She says, "Yes, that could be certainly mustered." And she snaps her little gnomish fingers.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Matt: And one of the guards wanders off, comes back a few moments later and retrieves an extra pair of goggles, and the throat bead.
Taliesin: Excellent.
Matt: And it's called a throat bead.
All: Throat bead.
Sam: How many of us need my coins to become altered?
Travis: I need to be a whale.
Marisha: That's me.
Taliesin: Three.
Liam: So, riders, show of hands. Rider, rider?
Laura: I mean, I can just use Water Breathing and cast Pass Without a Trace on us, that's the only thing, is I can't do that if I have Alter Self.
Sam: Oh, well then, I can just--
Marisha: Well, if you cast Pass Without a Trace, it's a concentration spell--
Sam: You won't be able to swim very fast, though.
Laura: If what?
Sam: She can't use Alter Self and Pass Without a Trace.
Marisha: Is Alter Self a concentration spell?
Sam: Yes.
Marisha: Oh. I could cast Pass Without a Trace, though.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: I did bring it today.
Laura: Oh, good. All right.
Marisha: I could-- yeah. Wait.
Travis: Are there any seashells on the floor that I could find? Pretty shells?
Taliesin: I've already got a small bag of them, if you want to keep them--
Travis: I don't want yours.
Matt: So Alter Self is a what-level spell?
Taliesin: We could trade later.
Marisha: One. Two.
Matt: You have three second-level spells you can cast. And two thirds. So you'd have to use one of your third-level spells to do that.
Sam: Yeah.
Taliesin: Also a skipping stone.
Marisha: Right.
Matt: Technically, you could do--
Sam: I need one for me.
Taliesin: You didn't think of that, did you?
Sam: So four of them.
Matt: You are correct.
Laura: You're a rider?
Travis: I'm a whale.
Marisha: Animal Shapes takes my concentration, so I can't do that. But you could cast it--
Sam: You could just have Water Breathing, and be riding a whale. But if you get tossed from the whale, can you swim?
Laura: I mean, I can swim. What if you give me the coin--
Sam: And then you can use it if you need it.
Laura: -- and if things get hairy, then I use it, and then we drop Pass Without a Trace.
Taliesin: If it's hairy, we won't need Pass Without a Trace at all.
Marisha: I can go ahead and cast Animal Shapes on her, but it takes a turn, a round, for me to-- an action to change her into something else, so can I cast it on her, but leave her as Vex for now?
Laura: I'm not gonna be an animal.
Marisha: No, I know.
Matt: You assume the form of a different creature for the duration. A creature different from herself. Of the beast variety.
Marisha: Okay. Never mind.
Taliesin: We've got a plan.
Laura: We're fine!
Marisha: 'Cause we need Pass Without a Trace for her, right?
Laura: Yeah, so I'll get a coin, I'll cast it, go in, if things get bad, I'll use the coin.
Marisha: You can cast the coin. Okay. All right.
Sam: You're a whale.
Taliesin: I'm going to be a whale, we've got some rope here, it's going to be your job once I'm a whale to create at least a couple handholds with a harness. You know how to use knots, right, you can do some basic--
Sam: I know every knot in the book.
Taliesin: I knew you would.
Sam: The double-sloop. The reverse-cowgirl. I know 'em all. I've got the itsy-bitsy spider.
Taliesin: Keep going.
Sam: I know the rusty trombone. I've got--
Laura: The old Alaskan pipeline.
Sam: Yep. Got the figure eight, the figure four, the hidden figures.
Taliesin: The Dallas two-step.
Sam: I've got a bunch of 'em, yep.
Taliesin: The sweet Caroline?
Sam: Oh, yes. That one. That one's good. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Good for tension. I'm also gonna grab-- I should not be allowed to drink this. I'm going to take you aside really quickly and give you the extra set of goggles and the bead.
Liam: What do you want me to do with these? Just keep them safe?
Taliesin: Just in case. I'm-- you know how I get with my hunches.
Liam: Okay.
Taliesin: You'll know, if we need them, we have them. Just an extra set.
Liam: All right, Freddie.
Marisha: Uvenda, these beads.
Matt: "Yes?"
Marisha: Can you guys also track where we are based on them?
Matt: "No, unfortunately."
Marisha: No.
Matt: "The magic is only localized."
Marisha: All right.
Matt: "We've recovered as many as we could from previous scouts that have fallen."
Marisha: I go ahead and I Druidcraft one of my bark bracelets to put around her. For scrying, if you need it.
Matt: "All right. Thank you."
Sam: Bigly man over there, do you want a coin in case you lose your whale form?
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: What about you, Percival?
Taliesin: I'll take one just in case.
Sam: All right.
Travis: What does it do?
Sam: You say, 'Alter Self!' and slam it against your body and it'll make you with gills and stuff. Does he speak-- he speaks Common, right? He understands what I'm saying?
Taliesin: Well.
Travis: What does it do?
Sam: Make big, big hit, say 'Alter Self'--
Travis: What's the matter with you? Why are you talking like that?
Taliesin: That was everything I could've hoped for.
Liam: He does speak Fucking-with-you. Very well.
Sam: All right, I guess I'll make four coins.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: And pass them out to Percy, Little Elf Boy, Little Elf Girl, and Jumbo.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Hi. My name is Vax.
Sam: Oh.
Liam: That's short for Vax'ildan.
Sam: Have you heard the Legend of Taryon Darrington?
Liam: From you, yes, I have. It's a good tale.
Sam: Good, then, we're equals.
Liam: That is my sister. Her name is Vex'ahlia. You can call her Vex. Some people call her Vax.
Laura: That's true.
Sam: That's very confusing.
Laura: Yeah, you can call us by anything, we'll both respond.
Taliesin: At first, yes.
Sam: Okay. Okay. Were your parents fond of you, because to name them that similar would be-- just quite annoying, growing up, you must've gotten confused constantly.
Liam: I walk away. (all laugh)
Laura: I follow suit.
Matt: About this time, as you've seen Uvenda's been looking out patiently, the water nearby at the very edge of one of the reef drop-offs splashes out, and you watch as a figure darts out and lands and shakes off, and what you see there looks to be a very, very dark-skinned, stocky dwarf, wearing the same goggles and throat bead there. "Sorry about the delay." He wanders up and pulls his goggles off and rustles his hair a bit. "Hello. So you're the ones traveling to the Aerie today? Waverider Durent. Pleasure to meet you." And he reaches over and grabs-- as he takes your hand-- you put it out to extend it, he grasps it and gives a firm shake. You see he's got very, very short dirty-blonde hair--
Marisha: Durent?
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: And a beard that is just tattered and knotted from not being kept or combed through.
Marisha: So someone you would find at Venice Beach.
Matt: Kind of, yeah. He's the Venice Beach dwarf, basically.
Laura: (gasps) That's awesome.
Matt: Straight-up, actually, now that you point it out.
Liam: Just finished going up the ropes and down.
Matt: "All right, I'm taking you down to the Aerie. You ready?"
Laura: I think so.
Taliesin: Sure.
Marisha: Are you gonna be with us the whole time, or are you just getting us there?
Matt: "Well, I'm just getting you to the door."
Marisha: Of course.
Sam: Wait, there's a door?
Taliesin: Oh, now we're really in trouble.
Laura: This is where we're gonna check out the lodestones, before we go through the door.
Travis: Right, yeah. Knew it. Making sure you knew.
Marisha: There's doors to the other planes. That's our people's job.
Matt: "It's a figure of speech."
Sam: We're going to another plane?
All: Yes.
Sam: Oh my. Okay. This is great. This is great.
Matt: "Oh, you look really excited."
Sam: I am.
Matt: "You shouldn't be. Now, come on. See you've got your equipment." And takes his goggles and puts them back on. They're bulbous, they're just these giant domes that make you look fly-like.
Taliesin: I love it.
Liam: Nice.
Matt: "Okay. Now. Follow suit." He looks over. "Thank you, Uvenda." "Of course. Take care of them." "That's not my job." And dives into the water.
Marisha: I go in first.
Sam: Wait, don't you have to make some of us--
Marisha: Oh, right.
Laura: No, no, no, wait, how long does it last?
Travis: Right at the fucking start.
Marisha: Are we doing this now?
Laura: No, 'cause we can do it underwater, can't we?
Marisha: Animal Shapes last for 24 hours.
Laura: Well, let's wait until we're going into the water plane before we turn into fucking whales.
Travis: Don't we have to examine shit first? With our non-flipper hands?
Marisha: Yeah, he's gonna be showing us the stones first, right? So yeah. Jesus. I go in first.
Matt: All right. So you guys follow suit, diving in, diving in, each one of you in the order you wish, eventually with Doty (splash) just sinking very heavily down after you.
Laura: He's coming?
Sam: Oh, no.
Laura: Tary, shouldn't we leave him?
Sam: How deep is this?
Marisha: I can't-- nope, he's a construct.
Matt: Do you prefer Doty not to?
Sam: I would prefer Doty not come. He can't swim, right?
Matt: No, he can just walk across the bottom.
Travis: We're not going to tell you what to do here.
Matt: Your call.
Sam: I'm a little confused. We're going underwater now, but not to where we're going for the mission?
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: The portal to the other dimension is underwater and through a rift.
Travis: Imagine endless water.
Laura: Just lots of water.
Travis: No possible-- bottomless.
Sam: All right, then Doty can come this far.
Liam: To the rift?
Sam: Just to the door.
Travis: We barely knew him. Bring him along.
Liam: Wait by the gate. Like a butler.
Sam: Yes.
Travis: That was quick.
Laura: What if he gets rusty?
Sam: I hadn't thought of that.
Laura: It might be smart to not have him join us.
Taliesin: The rusty Doty's another knot that you know.
Laura: Just leave him behind.
Sam: The rusty Doty? (all laugh)
Matt: What's your plan? Yes or no?
Sam: Doty, you should stay behind.
Matt: Goes to jump, like--
Sam: Stay behind, and just take atmospheric notes, you know. Time of day, position of sun. Type of clouds. And if anyone tries to steal my stuff, describe them very well in the book.
Matt: A little seagull flies overhead. (all laugh)
Sam: It's all for color, for the book, you know.
Matt: Another one. Just taking very, very good notes.
Sam: Two chapters of seagull flight patterns.
Marisha: You're gonna have an excellent book on the mating habits of seagulls when you get back.
Matt: Eat your heart out, Darwin. Doty's on the case.
Travis: Oh my god.
Liam: Love you, Matt.
Matt: It's ridiculous. So you guys all eventually dive into the water, and as you do, you look down and there is essentially a 40-foot-wide gap in the beach here, just barely submerged beach, that coasts down and drops off directly down into this cylindrical section that is just open. And as you drift down, your goggles visible, you can see around you, dry, pale reef that slowly gives way to colorful, life-teeming reef. You see hundreds of fish of different sizes and colors, all darting in and out of the various gaps and openings in the side, you see vibrant plant life beginning to massively jut out from the side of this reef. Further down, you see eels twisting through, and bits of kelp and other long, underwater plant life tickle your body as you push past and drift, keeping track of where you're slowly sinking down, desperately trying to follow this dwarf that is no longer in view, he just dove straight down and is far more comfortable under the water than most of you. Eventually, the reef begins to cluster in tighter and tighter, and you start getting a little nervous as to if you're going to hit a bottom or hit a pinch point. And then suddenly it stops, the reef just ends, and you now are floating down into what appears to be endless dark ocean. And just below, you see just a faint bit of light, and you start noticing the dark color is because you're about to hit an extremely dense forest of underwater plant life. You watch as all of these long, thin tendrils of almost vines covered in elongated leaves begin to curl up around you, and you start pushing through, following this light, and as you get across to the edge, Keyleth, you're the closest ahead and you guys have just enough light to watch the bead of where Keyleth is. Keyleth, you can still see Durent and keep that pace. He leads you down over this bank of where the top of this underwater forest ends, and you see, attached to the reef above by a single pillar of stonework that seems to be built or carved out of the reef, emerges a spiraling tower that eventually ends on the floor of the ocean here. It's made of a yellowish-white sandstone-like color, there are pillars carved out of it, naturalistic, but also have almost a series of bevelled edges to them. Within the inside, there is a dull green glow that is pulsating, and as Durent makes his way down toward one of the many openings in the floors, you can see there is a very, very faint sparkling energy that seems to just drift up out of the center of this tower. As you make it further down towards the base, you now begin to see through some of the openings, the center of this tower is hollow. It is an exterior, like a very thin Colosseum-like structure that goes up for multiple floors, slowly pincering as it gets to the top, and it is just an open interior inside. As eventually you touch down onto the soft bottom of the ocean here and begin making your way, slowly swimming towards the interior, you can see a number of other similarly dressed Waveriders as well as armored guardians that stand, all with various trident or spear-like weapons. A number of them appear to be of varying races, human, half-elf, elf, it appears that Durent is the only dwarf you see in this vicinity, and a couple of them appear to be merfolk, like straight-up half-human, half-fish, tails, fins, gills, the whole circumstance.
Laura: What does their hair look like?
Matt: (laughs) You see two of them, one of which is male. No visible hair on him, actually, just the frill that goes down his head. The other is female. Long, deep, dark blue hair that drifts past, and as she shifts and looks in your direction, you watch it hold in place and slowly shift as the water currents push through.
Laura: I just stare at her.
Matt: (laughs) As you're entranced by this, your attention slowly glides over to the very center, the base of this temple, where you can see there are these three large, smooth, gray-ish rocks that are embedded in the ground, about five feet wide, and in the center of these three rocks, you see what appears to be-- it's almost like an oval shape, about ten feet tall, about five feet wide, that is crackling blue energy. This opening, here. And you can watch as occasionally clouds of black, murky soot or sand, deep, deep ocean sand, push through. You can see, as you get closer and peer in, this is a doorway into the plane, this is the rift. Unlike the one that you saw at Pyrah, which seemed to flicker and have a barely contained energy when you've seen it at its torn-open stages, this appears to be fairly contained. It's demure, there's not a lot of movement, it's just stationary, and the guards that surround it in the center of this temple all look inward, keeping vigilant watch. As you follow Durent, making his way towards the doorway, you can see within each of these three large, half-buried stones, there is a smaller, deep emerald green, almost jade-looking stone that is about that large that is embedded in each of these. Durent points over to one of them, and you hear him, through the water, the throat bead carrying the sound of his voice through, "This is what you're looking for. This is a lodestone. Take your time, as much as you need, to study it. Find what you need. Let me know when you're ready to pass through."
Laura: Are they all the same color? Every lodestone looks the same?
Matt: Yeah, you glance through, they're all the same color. Slight variations, and the shapes change a little bit, some are perfectly spherical, some are a little oblong, just whatever shape it eventually hardened into.
Taliesin: Kind of a natural jade?
Matt: Kind of, yeah. But like a dark, dark jade. Like Maori, New Zealand jade.
Laura: Not translucent at all, not--
Matt: No.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: Keyleth goes up and touches one and meditates on it for a second.
Matt: Okay. As you put your hand towards it, you feel a very, very faint vibration, actually a very similar vibration to the throat bead.
Marisha: Really. Are the throat beads green? Do they look similar?
Matt: At this point, now? You notice, yes, they're made of the same material. You see that a lot of-- the lodestones' main purpose is here, but a lot of the inherent magic of them, or at least the enchantment properties of it, it's a pretty big part of the general life here at Vesrah.
Marisha: Do the beads tend to react when they get closer to the lodestone?
Matt: There is no change. But you do feel that faint hum and vibration of power of the lodestone that is embedded within.
Marisha: I turn to Durent. Whereabouts do they tend to be found? The lodestones?
Matt: "Well, I mean, all over."
Marisha: All over?
Matt: "Who knows where they've been dropped. The ocean tends to swallow things up. You might have to dig. Mostly we find them buried."
Marisha: Buried.
Taliesin: How heavy are they?
Matt: "Let me show you." And he goes over and grabs one and (strains) and pulls it out. The doorway flickers ever so slightly. He's like, "It's fine for a moment." And hands it to you. You take it, and for its size, it is surprisingly dense. It has about twice the weight you were expecting, and your arms just (grunts) a little bit. Also, as you're holding it, you notice the clasp on your cloak is being pulled towards it. As you pull it away, and pull towards it, you realize these are actually fairly magnetic.
Taliesin: They're magnetic?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: Magnetic. Percy, do you have a compass?
Taliesin: I don't, but I can fake one pretty quickly if we have to.
Marisha: Really? You don't have a compass. Really?
Taliesin: We never needed a compass.
Travis: What do we even have you here for, I mean?
Taliesin: Is it possible-- well, we're too deep now, but--
Matt: As you're having this conversation, you watch as Durent's patiently there.
Taliesin: You have a compass, don't you? And I'm going to hand it back to him.
Matt: "No, but I need the stone." Puts it back inside. "Okay, we're good."
Sam: If I examine it, do I detect any magic on it?
Matt: You do. Profoundly magical, this is a very, very strong natural magic source.
Taliesin: This is going to be weird. I'm going to take out a chunk of Whitestone residuum and just compare the color and see if there's any relation.
Matt: Make an intelligence check.
Taliesin: Look at my sheet. That's a natural 20. (all cheer)
Travis: The snitch returns.
Matt: Interestingly enough, there are similarities. It is not the same material, but you've had enough time to study whitestone, and get a feel that there are-- this is your first inclination that there are more than one substance that seems to be related to the nature of magic. This is-- at least based on the ecology and what little bit of history you've picked up from the kraken and how long it's been around-- whitestone may be one of the more recent sources of this type of power, or variation on this type of power. But there are certain comparable facets of its ability, yeah.
Taliesin: It actually occurs to me that I might have some magnets on my person. Can I make an investigation check? I had quietly in my head been using them to keep my coat down when I was running around with the spider boots.
Liam: The magic of improv.
Taliesin: I wouldn't say it if it wasn't true.
Matt: No, that's fine.
Taliesin: Can I make a roll to see if I happen to have some on me?
Matt: I'd say you have them on you. You're Percy. It's fine. They're very simple magnets.
Taliesin: Yeah. They might help with-- I'm going to try and see if I can use them as a very base dowsing rod for these stones.
Matt: You notice that you don't-- any sort of pull you feel on the magnet doesn't seem to hit until you're within about a foot or so of the stone.
Taliesin: Okay.
Laura: I do have Locate Object.
Sam: I pull out my compass and see if it works.
Matt: Okay, you pull out your compass?
Travis: You have a compass?
Sam: Sure. Yeah, I have a compass, by the way.
Marisha: Really, you have a compass?
Matt: As you pull it out, you watch, as you stand there, it's confused, it's darting around and doing circles. As you begin to step in one direction towards one of the stones, it rights itself in its direction.
Sam: Hm. Fascinating.
Laura: Nice.
Marisha: Will you keep that handy, you know?
Sam: Oh, sorry. Yes. One second. Just, still pressurizing.
Marisha: Sure.
Travis: Equalizing.
Taliesin: In my head, you have zinc all over your nose. There's just zinc.
Marisha: And a hula shirt.
Sam: Oh yes, do you want a--
Taliesin: Yes, we're really pale people, this is probably a good idea. No.
Marisha: I tap it, because I've seen other people do that, and I feel like that's what you do with compasses.
Travis: And it shatters.
Matt: (shattering sound)
Marisha: Ahh!
Matt: Yeah, it seems to be a functional compass.
Marisha: Do you want to be the compass man? Are you gonna man the compass? Be navigation?
Sam: The leader? Absolutely.
Taliesin: The navigator, yes.
Sam: The navigator. Sure.
Marisha: The navigator.
Sam: Sure.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Any other tests you brainy types want to do on these giant, green balls?
Taliesin: I feel comfortable. We have Locate Object, we have a compass.
Laura: Yes. Locate Object is concentration, and so is Pass Without a Trace.
Marisha: So when we get through the void, and maybe we can do a Locate Object and then Pass Without a Trace, and then I'll cast Animal Shapes, and then we go.
Matt: Locate Object, by the way--
Liam: That is a lot of steps.
Laura: It's within 1000 feet.
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Yes.
Marisha: But it lasts for ten minutes.
Matt: It does, yes.
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Okay. So. You guys ready?
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: Yes.
Liam: Eh.
Matt: All right--
Travis: Are we ready?
Laura: Are we ready?
Matt: Durent looks at your faces as you're all staring and goes, "Okay. So. About time?"
Laura: Have you seen a kraken?
Matt: "Oh yeah, I've seen it."
Laura: And?
Matt: "Oh, it's fucking terrible."
Laura: How big, are we talking?
Travis: Immense?
Matt: "You know this, this size? It's a lot bigger."
Liam: How many Grogs?
Laura: Big enough to swallow him?
Matt: "Oh, yeah."
Liam: Like ten Grogs long?
Matt: "Hundred."
Liam: Hundred Grogs long?!
Matt: "It's hard, it's spatial awareness. Look, I'm not a science man like these two, but it's big."
Taliesin: I'm a science man!
Travis: Your beard is glorious.
Matt: "Thank you. Yours isn't too bad yourself, boy!" He tousles it up.
Travis: Yeah, hold on. Are there any barnacles down here I can put in that? Is it fast in the water?
Matt: "I'd say it's pretty fast, aye."
Liam: And you've seen it leave these stones, these lodes?
Matt: "I've seen him through the door. Oh, I don't go in there!"
Travis: Oh, yeah?
Matt: "No, I just watch the doorway. That's my job"
Sam: You don't watch him drop his lodes.
Matt: "I have not yet seen the kraken drop its lodes, no."
Laura: All right.
Liam: I have never felt more prepared than I do right now. Let's do this shit.
Laura: Let's.
Matt: "If it goes bad, come back."
Laura: Run.
Matt: "Just get back."
Laura: Right.
Matt: "You'll fail, but you'll get back."
Marisha: I'll fail?! Did you just say I'll fail? Okay, bye!
Matt: As you guys, one by one, plunge through the rift in the Aerie of Torrent, into the water elemental plane. And that's where we'll take a break. We'll be back here in just a few moments guys. Real fast, we do have a giveaway from our friends at Wyrmwood.
Travis: Giveaway!
Matt: We have a Hero Vault made of very aromatic cedar. That actually smells of the most glorious hamster cage ever, it's awesome. Aww, I love that smell. It reminds me of when I had my first pet.
Liam: It smells like poop?
Matt: So, this will be going out to somebody. Just to clarify, if you want to be part of this, you need to come into the Twitch chat. So, come into the Twitch chat. Our code word tonight is, guess what, 'kraken.'
Laura: Kraken!
Matt: So, as soon as that opens up in the chat, make sure you write kraken in the chat to be entered into the contest, and we'll come back with a winner of this awesome Hero Vault in just a bit. [break]
Matt: Hello, and welcome back everyone!
Liam: (shouting, away from mic) What, we're on, now?
Marisha: Jesus.
Matt: Yeah, it was quick, imagine that.
Liam: Holy cow.
Marisha: Hi, countdown.
Sam: Wait a second! Okay. Nothing. But they can't see the map, yet, can they?
Matt: They will shortly.
Marisha: The map?
Taliesin: They can't see the map yet.
Matt: So, as you guys emerge-- (all gasp)
Matt: Oh! (laughs)
Laura: Is it beautiful?
Marisha: Yes I just noticed it, yeah.
Liam: You just opened your eyes?
Laura: Aw, it's so cool!
Matt: So, this here is the exterior portal, into the floor. You step out at about two feet below the doorway, your feet (two dull thuds) slowly hit the soft, cushy bottom of the water elemental plane. You see about you a number of thick clusters of various underwater plant life, rising up and slowly shifting with the waves and the water. You also see throughout the dark sand in the vicinity hundreds of bones and various other chunks of flesh, in various long states of decay. It is dark down here, you maybe have about 20 to 30 feet of visual range right here unaided. Our two humans friends over there have almost no sight beyond a five, ten-foot distance here. Usually, from just the glow of your armor, your helm itself has this radiant glow about it.
Liam: I'm using Divine Sense right now to see if anything is not completely--
Matt: Okay, you're-- you're divining for what?
Liam: Undead. In the bones.
Marisha: Ooh.
Matt: Okay, as you carefully close your eyes and focus, you lend your essence out to the Raven Queen even across the planes to guide your vision to anything of undeath, or fiendish in nature. And nothing.
Laura: I'm going to take a moment to use Primal Awareness and see-- is there a way to sense krakens? Or anything.
Matt: I don't know, do you know how to sense krakens?
Laura: I don't know, do I?
Travis: Do you sense calamari?
Liam: DM snark!
Matt: Looking at your various choices.
Laura: Aberrations, celestials, dragons, elementals, fey, fiends and undead.
Liam: And krakens, it says right there--
Laura: And krakens.
Matt: Okay, as--
Laura: Krakens--
Matt: As you focus your attention, utilizing-- and mark off your ability there.
Laura: Yes.
Matt: You sense nothing. You said elementals are on there?
Laura: Elementals, aberrations--
Liam: Aberrations.
Laura: -- and fiends.
Matt: Which one are you choosing?
Laura: Oh, I have to choose one
Taliesin: Aberrations
Marisha: Elemental?
Laura: What do you think?
Travis: I think you should just get all of them
Laura: What do you think? Aberrations or-- what do you think a kraken is?
Sam: Aberration? It's an animal.
Marisha: You'll definitely find elementals because they're definitely here.
Laura: What would a kraken be?
Travis: An animal.
Liam: If it's not an aberration--
Taliesin: An animal.
Liam: It'd be a beast which you don't have--
Travis: A mineral. (all laugh)
Liam: The only thing on there--
Marisha: A mineral? (laughs)
Liam: The only thing on there-- that it is maybe is an aberration.
Laura: Aberration?
Liam: I mean, elementals--
Taliesin: They're not really aberrations.
Sam: They're aliens.
Laura: No?
Liam: There's nothing on this list.
Laura: All right, then I'm going to try for elementals.
Matt: Okay, you sit down and focus and dozens of nearby signatures hit you, you're not quite sure what direction they come from, but you know that this area is teeming with elemental energy, it has drawn many elemental powers nearby.
Laura: They're like everywhere.
Liam: They're all around us, man.
Sam: It's impossible, it's from inside the room!
Marisha: They're in the walls, they're in the goddamn walls!
Travis: This is really important. I fart. Do the bubbles go up?
Matt: (bubbling noise) They do.
Travis: We're in a safe place.
Taliesin: That was weirdly helpful.
Marisha: Do I see that?
Matt: You do.
Marisha: That's actually insanely helpful.
Taliesin: That's really, genuinely helpful. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Looking at--
Sam: (garbled voice) Should we use our flashlights?
Taliesin: (garbled voice) Why are you doing this with your face?
Marisha: (garbled voice) No!
Travis: I don't know, I don't know!
Sam: (garbled voice) I don't know, it felt--
Travis: Looking up, can you see any sort of surface to the water, like you would if you were 150, 200 feet, scuba-diving down, and--
Matt: I mean, your vision in the vicinity is dark, and you feel like you're at the bottom of a very, very deep abyssal ocean. Looking up, you see a faint turquoise glow in the upward direction but it seems sourceless, almost as opposed to straight up, it almost encompasses a full dome, and you see no sign of a break in the water--
Travis: That's what I thought.
Matt: -- and the various strands of plant life extend far into the darkness and strange kind of fuzzy distance where they fade out.
Travis: We in it.
Laura: I have a feeling light will attract all sorts of creatures down here
Travis: Yes.
Taliesin: I'm not entirely sure the creatures down here have eyes.
Laura: Hm.
Marisha: Most do have blindsight or echo-location, so they--
Laura: Hm, what about those kind of fish that have the--
Marisha: Might not be good for us.
Travis: Yep.
Laura: -- things that dangle in front of their faces?
Marisha: Angler fish, yeah.
Travis: Movement, light, shiny things, all bad.
Marisha: Mm-hm.
Liam: Tary's armor.
Laura: He's covered.
Sam: Thank you.
Marisha: Do we have a few minutes? I can do a quick Locate Object spell, see if we're headed in the right direction if you wanna--
Laura: I'm going to use a Locate Object spell
Marisha: Can I assist her in any way?
Matt: Nope, this is her particular spell to cast.
Marisha: All right.
Taliesin: I'm going to examine the sand, and just gently dig around to see what's around. This is fascinating, I'm just digging for whatever.
Matt: Okay. Your feet hit and pull apart, and as soon as you do, you get about four inches of the soft sand before you start hitting black dirt. That immediately starts to cloud and obscure your vicinity, so you carefully stop for a second.
Taliesin: Good to know.
Marisha: Wow.
Sam: I'm going to load up my flashlight with one of those Daylight gems, but with the lens fully closed, so no light can escape.
Matt: Okay, so you go ahead and you activate, so mark off another one of your opals.
Sam: Sure.
Taliesin: There's a red filter.
Matt: As you activate it as soon as you close the device, and you feel it contained within.
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: You do have a red filter?
Matt: All right, you cast Locate Object, Laura?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: All right, so as Vex, you focus, concentrating on the lodestone that you saw before.
Travis: Through the portal behind you.
Laura: No no no, it finds similar objects.
Travis: I know, I know, I know.
Matt: Let's see, you feel the direction pull you this way.
Laura: Awesome.
Matt: You don't know how far away, but the distance pulls you in that direction.
Laura: There is a lodestone within a thousand feet that direction.
Marisha: You know, Taryon just gave me an idea.
Sam: I tend to have that effect on people.
Marisha: Thank you for your infinite wisdom, Taryon. We might be able to use a Daylight spell as a distraction worst case scenario, because I can place it somewhere and then leave it.
Laura: Oh, that is smart.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: If we have to use an opal we can.
Sam: Sure.
Taliesin: So, we can be far away when we activate it.
Travis: How far away can you place that?
Laura: She can cast it on an object and leave it behind.
Marisha: I can leave it. As a distraction.
Travis: Right.
Laura: You could--
Taliesin: Let's not cast it near the portal, though.
Marisha: I don't wanna do it right now, but I'm just throwing it out there--
Laura: -- cast it on the tip of an arrow and I can shoot it at least 150 feet.
Marisha: That's a hundred percent true, we've done that before.
Taliesin: Very good.
Marisha: Just keep that in mind. All right. Yeah. All right.
Taliesin: Filing it away.
Marisha: Okay, we have a direction, are we ready?
Laura: Let's try to move stealthily, for a little while. Or should I just drop it and cast Pass Without A Trace right now?
Taliesin: Let's see how we feel?
Marisha: Let's see how we feel. I'll go ahead and do Pass Without A Trace on us and we'll try and move in the direction that she called.
Laura: Oh good call. All right.
Matt: Okay. So, I need all of you to roll-- is Trinket still in your necklace?
Laura: (with hesitation) Okay. (all laugh)
Matt: That's not an answer.
Laura: I hadn't imagined him in but--
Taliesin: Everybody knows about the sea bear.
Laura: Yeah, he's going to turn into an animal so--
Liam: A killer whale, we talked about.
Marisha: Whenever he's ready.
Taliesin: When it's time.
Laura: Let's bring Trinket out. Fuck it!
Liam: Yeah! Killer whale Trinket man.
Marisha: He does have Water Breathing cast on him.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Yes, this is true.
Laura: So he can fucking swim.
Matt: Yes. Trinket does not have goggles. And cannot talk or cast spells underwater.
Laura: Well.
Marisha: I mean, he's a bear.
Matt: I know. I know.
Laura: What if-- Okay.
Matt: As soon as Trinket (splash)
Liam: He's having a singular experience for a bear, though.
Marisha: Yeah. (laughs)
Matt: (confused bear noises)
Laura: It's fun, buddy?
Travis: You give him a hard time. Like trying to get a rat in a bath.
Laura: Oh god. No, no, no.
Liam: I just (mimes scratching Trinket).
Marisha: Oh no.
Laura: I'm gonna cast, I'm gonna-- Fuck. I'm gonna cast Speak With Animals on him.
Taliesin: Anyone ever seen Bedknobs and Broomsticks?
Laura: Trinket?
Matt: Pass Without A Trace-- this is before or after Pass Without A Trace?
Laura: Oh, she's casting Pass Without A Trace.
Marisha: No, I'm doing Pass Without A Trace.
Matt: Oh. That's right, yeah.
Laura: I'm casting Speak With Animals.
Matt: That's right.
Laura: Trinket, everything's fine! You're just underwater.
Matt: (confused bear noises) "It's very wet."
Laura: It is.
Matt: "What's going on?" (all laugh)
Laura: We're going to be swimming for a while. You're gonna make me cry, dear. We're going to be swimming for a little while, all right? Do you feel okay with this?
Matt: (distressed bear noises)
Travis: You're drowning him, baby.
Laura: He can breathe, just breathe in. Just like land, only not.
Matt: (bear noises) He kinda lands in the sand. Looks around, very nervously. Looks at one of the nearby kinda floating pieces of weird errant plant matter and-- (all laugh)
Laura: Yeah. We're good? Are you all right?
Matt: "I'm okay."
Laura: All right. Just giving you a heads up; you may be turned into a whale in a little bit.
Matt: "What is a whale?" (all laugh)
Laura: You'll be really, really big and you'll be able to swim a lot better. All right? Just remember to follow my lead. And I'm gonna hang onto you when you are a whale, all right?
Matt: "Okay."
Laura: Okay. I love you.
Matt: "I trust you."
Laura: I trust you, too. I love you.
Matt: "Love you."
Laura: I'm proud of you.
Matt: "Okay."
Laura: I love him so much. I love him!
Travis: Say goodbye to him.
Laura: Shut up!
Matt: The slowest. You see him start like, just bear-paddling a little, under the water just like--
Laura: It's fun, see? It's fun. But paddle quietly, dear, we're trying to be stealthy!
Matt: "Mm-hm. Okay."
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Now are you casting-- Oh, no. You're casting Pass Without a Trace, I want everyone to make stealth checks.
Laura: I love him. Aw.
Liam: Fucking D&D, man.
Sam: Stealth checks! Stealth checks!
Taliesin: Okay. Stealth checks.
Matt: Stealth checks. All of you guys including Trinket, please.
Laura: Okay, okay, okay.
Travis: Don't fuck me, Gil.
Taliesin: Yay.
Marisha: I'm crying so hard. Oh wait, we're all doing them.
Taliesin: I'm so sorry for doing that to you. It was really unfair.
Travis: 25.
Marisha: Oh, that's good! That's good.
Taliesin: Plus ten?
Travis: 25.
Matt: 25, right.
Sam: 20! With our boost.
Laura: Oh, with Pass Without A Trace, right.
Liam: Yeah, add that ten, man.
Marisha: Yeah, 34.
Taliesin: 33.
Liam: 38.
Taliesin: Hut hut!
Matt: Rogues!
Liam: It's all I do.
Travis: Yeah, man.
Taliesin: They get the job done
Marisha: Rogues! They get the job done.
Laura: I'm sorry, I'm sorry! I don't know what to add for Trinket's stealth. Is that just his dex maybe?
Matt: It's his dex, yeah.
Laura: Okay, so 29 for me.
Matt: All right.
Laura: And 30 for Trinket.
Taliesin: He kind of looks like kelp --
Travis: Yeah?
Taliesin: -- maybe he's blending
Liam: He's just underwater ballet-ing, man
Matt: What'd you roll for Trinket?
Travis: 18.
Laura: 18.
Liam: Not making a sound.
Matt: Nice!
Marisha: Oh my god.
Taliesin: It's just a face in a giant brown--
Matt: All right.
Liam: Gently.
Laura: Let me make sure I'm right on mine.
Matt: You guys (water sound effects) start very quietly as you can begin walking across the bottom of the floor--
Taliesin: (Darth Vader-esque breathing effect)
Marisha: (Darth Vader-esque breathing effect)
Matt: -- barely, your toes barely touching the surface of the bottom. Making your way in this direction. You guys slowly begin to shift this way. Following this path. Now you're maintaining Locate Object, you said?
Laura: Yes, I am.
Liam: I thought it was one of these.
Matt: Now you cast--
Laura: Oh.
Matt: Is Speak With Animals a--
Laura: Concentration? It's not.
Taliesin: Let's hunt some scallops.
Marisha: Hunt some scallops.
Matt: It is! Concentration up to ten minutes. Locate Object is ten minutes. Oh, Speak With Animals is not, sorry.
Laura: No.
Matt: Sorry. Then you're fine.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: Calamari.
Liam: Get some butter from the jug.
Marisha: Some Grog aioli, a lil bit of mayo, lemon.
Travis: Do we see anything swimming above us or around us?
Matt: Looking in your vicinity, you see clusters of ruins, you see broken pieces of very, very old stonework. And looking at them, they are scattered throughout the vicinity. Singular chunks of structures. Let's see. Percival, go ahead and make an intelligence check.
Taliesin: That'll do. 20.
Matt: Okay. Looking to the left of you as you pass by this one structure, you can see the chunk of wall that's visible, it is thick enough and tall enough where it looks like it's a sliver of the base of a larger structure that was designed for far larger creatures. The sense of the erosion and the relatively smooth edges of the various broken parts to it tell you that it's been there for a very long time.
Taliesin: This was for a larger creature, like, giants?
Matt: Giants or larger. It's hard to really tell. This is not a human-sized--
Taliesin: Did these ruins crumble, or did they sink?
Matt: They appear to have crumbled. The structure in which they're placed has intentional placement within here.
Taliesin: And is the stone-- does the stone feel natural, or does it feel like stone that would be underwater? Does it look like the parts of it that have been underwater are doing well, or does it look like it's eroding as something that should've been above the surface?
Matt: It looks like they're eroding as expected for something that's been there for a very long time.
Taliesin: And there's no writing visible.
Matt: No, no. They're almost extremely smooth. Just been there for so long and hit with various blasts of water current, sand, dust, and other things for such a long period of time that it's smoothed the entirety of the wall structure.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: All right, you maintain the Locate Object?
Laura: Mm-hm.
Matt: As you guys push forward, eventually it leads you this way, until you begin to feel the direction change this path, there. So you lead the path over this way, and it leads you to the edge of this wall.
Sam: Do you need some help finding it?
Laura: Can I look around? Does it seem like it's right there?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: Okay. 25.
Matt: Glancing about the vicinity, looking over it all, you look at the wall, it's smooth, there's no indentation, there's no sign of a stone. Looking at the sand on the ground at the base of it, no sign of a stone.
Laura: Can I move some of the sand out of the way on the ground and see if I see anything?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: Compass.
Sam: Compass, yeah.
Laura: Ten. Yeah, bust out that compass.
Matt: Yeah, you begin to pull apart some of the sand, and the black murkiness begins to come up underneath, and you don't see anything.
Marisha: I stand watch while they do this and just look for any movement.
Matt: Perception check.
Sam: Is the compass moving?
Marisha: Don't fuck me, Gil.
Matt: The compass is currently focused on the same direction that you're moving, towards the wall.
Liam: I'm going to join Keyleth as well.
Sam: I'm gonna cast Detect Magic.
Marisha: 25. No, 27. Sorry.
Matt: Okay. Nice. You glance this way, as you're looking overhead, you can see a dark, very large dark shape right about here, looks to be the shelf of some sort of an underwater stone cliff or a mountain of some kind that leads up here like a bank. At the very top, you see very faint movement. Looks like individual, long tendrils of some kind, just barely visible at the outside of your dark vision.
Marisha: I come over the intercom and say, Be very quiet. Very still. Very slow.
Sam: I don't hear that, so I just cast Detect Magic.
Marisha: Oh, son of a fuck, you don't. Motherfucker.
Matt: Okay. So you cast Detect Magic. You currently, in front of you, don't see any sort of magical source. Nothing seems to glow or emanate at the wall or near the base of the wall.
Sam: Within 30 feet.
Matt: Right.
Sam: Even under three feet of sand.
Matt: Let me double-check something here for you.
Laura: I'm gonna wander to the other side of the wall and see if it's on the other side.
Taliesin: I'm with you.
Sam: One foot of stone, one inch of metal.
Matt: Okay, you faint-- You still feel the direction of the magic where you're looking, but you don't see anything on or around the base of the wall. Do you move around?
Laura: To the other side of the wall, yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah, we're moving there.
Sam: I'll come with.
Matt: As you and Percy find yourself at the other side of the wall, there.
Marisha: Still keeping an eye on the dark figure.
Matt: The direction of the Locate Object leads you adjacent and just beyond the wall on the other side of where you guys were looking.
Laura: Ah, that makes sense. Do I see it now?
Matt: You do not see anything.
Taliesin: I'm going to gently pat at the base of the wall.
Matt: Okay, both of you guys make investigation checks, please.
Taliesin: Not disturbing anything. Investigation? 13.
Laura: (high-pitched) Nine.
Matt: You're both digging through and pulling at the sand, and dig further and it causes the black---
Laura: We're digging softly, we're trying not to do that.
Taliesin: Very gently.
Sam: I'm coming too, I want to--
Taliesin: If anything we're sucking at this.
Sam: And I'm going to cast Detect Magic again.
Matt: Focusing, you do feel a very, very faint magical essence from the sand about two feet to the left of where they're currently sifting through the sand.
Laura: Shh, shh, shh!
Taliesin: Shh!
Sam: Oh, okay, Jesus! I'm just trying to help us find the fucking lodestones.
Laura: We move over there to start digging.
Matt: Start pulling through, you get past the sand, you get to some of the black murkiness and you're careful and start digging before (clunk) you feel one of your fingers hit a hard surface and you begin to pull underneath.
Laura: I think we found one!
Matt: You pull and begin clearing the space around it, and it takes you a minute or so with the help of both Taryon and Percival, but you dig enough of this sand and soot from underneath to get around and you have there, currently in your presence, one of your lodestones.
Laura: Do you think they'll know, if we grab it, do you think it's going to attract anything?
Taliesin: I think we put it in the bag of holding and it won't matter.
Laura: Grog.
Marisha: I'll watch.
Laura: Can you swim over here?
Travis: I slowly make my way to the other side of the wall.
Taliesin: I imagine like Neil Armstrong.
Matt: Over the wall, meet the rest of your allies.
Laura: We lift it, and put it in the Bag of Holding.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: It fits inside, vanishes, you feel this slight vibration in your fingers as you take the stone and slowly relinquish it to the bag of holding's entry port. It vanishes within.
Laura: Hey, one down! Do I sense another one with my Locate Object spell?
Matt: You do, you get a sense of something in this direction.
Laura: All right.
Matt: Like a line pointing this way.
Liam: C-20. (all laugh)
Marisha: Hit!
Laura: All right.
Taliesin: Let's curl around.
Laura: Shall we hide, yeah, curve around so we can hide from the big figure up top.
Marisha: Yeah, I keep an eye on the big figure the whole time.
Matt: All right, I need Percival--
Sam: Me too.
Matt: Tary, Vex, and Grog, who are moving currently, to make stealth checks.
Marisha: Come on.
Sam: 24.
Travis: Come on, Gil.
Laura: Woo.
Travis: Nice.
Taliesin: 33.
Travis: Just regular, right? No plus ten.
Laura: Yeah, plus ten.
Liam: No, plus ten.
Taliesin: Plus ten.
Travis: Oh, sorry. 27.
Laura: 39.
Liam: Good job, Gil.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Thanks, Gil.
Matt: Are you guys staying ground-level? Are you curving over? Are you going around?
Taliesin: We're going around.
Laura: Going around. We're trying to keep as, you know, stealthy as possible.
Matt: Right. So, you guys make your way around, heading this direction, following Vex. As you continue to curl forward, Vex, bringing your way forward, Trinket's kind of getting nervous of the distance.
Liam: I start scootching him behind the ear, I know this one spot behind his left ear that calms him down, as I watch with Keyleth.
Matt: Okay, so you slowly meander up to the side and help keep Trinket quiet for the time being.
Sam: A stream of diarrhea come out of his rear end.
Liam: Mixing in with the black sand.
Matt: Oh, god.
Liam: Like a squid in his own right.
Matt: You guys follow behind and--
Laura: Do we sense any kind of movement around us or anything?
Matt: Go ahead and make a perception check.
Travis: Yeah, I do that. Especially with that giant red rock right there.
Marisha: Do I do that too or no?
Taliesin: No, I perceive nothing.
Matt: You're not looking.
Marisha: I'm looking.
Matt: You're staying back with Vax.
Travis: Oh! 16!
Laura: Twenty... two. 21.
Matt: 21.
Taliesin: One. I saw nothing.
Matt: Okay, yeah. You come to this heavy, heavy piece of thick, natural wall-like stone that is heavily embedded in the ground. This is not like the previous ones that looked like it was carved, this is just a natural formation of stone that is jutting out of the sand, and it's a thick ten, 15-foot-wide embankment, maybe five feet thick and about six feet above. As you approach and get to it, you don't see anything that would mark it as different other than a series of-- you start looking down as you're inspecting and you see a series of skulls, some humanoid, some larger, some like almost elongated fish or crocodile-like jaws. Some of them are older, some of them are fresher, some of them still have like, bits of little thin tendrils of flesh-- (all groan)
Matt: That is mostly decomposed that drift off and change direction with the flow of the water as you make your way through.
Sam: Our masks are like--
Laura: No, we got goggles.
Matt: It's goggles--
Sam: Just goggles.
Matt: And just this little stone right over the larynx
Sam: So our mouth is free and--
Travis: Free in the water
Sam: Okay, I vomit. (all laugh)
Matt: (vomit sound, laughs) And this cloud of green, yellow, and brown just kind of emanates from the front of Taryon's face.
Travis: Feed the fish. Wait, quick question. Krakens don't like use shells do they like a crab?
Taliesin: No.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: They don't have fuck all.
Laura: I mean, do they?
Taliesin: They don't.
Travis: Just checking.
Taliesin: As far as I know.
Laura: Can we start looking for the lodestone?
Matt: Investigation check. Who else is helping?
Taliesin: I'll help.
Travis: No, no, I'm--
Sam: I'm looking at the compass.
Travis: I'm keeping an eye out.
Matt: Yep, you're looking on the compass.
Travis: I'm the lookout.
Matt: Grog's lookout, I just need Vex and Percy.
Laura: 18.
Matt: 18.
Taliesin: 13.
Matt: 13. You guys sift through the sand in this vicinity, poring around, trying to kind of dig across the exterior of the stone to pull away. You spend a good two to three minutes or so searching the vicinity and you don't find a stone.
Laura: Can I use the compass?
Marisha: No stone.
Sam: All right, I'll use Detect Magic again.
Laura: Well, can I just use the compass?
Marisha: Compass?
Sam: Yeah, what does it say?
Matt: It points in the direction you--
Laura: I wanna take it and bring it down to the ground and like--
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Like a metal detector
Marisha: Can I kind of start splitting the difference in case anything bad happens?
Matt: Okay, so you start making your way this way.
Marisha: Just very slowly.
Matt: Okay. I need you to make a stealth check. You as well.
Laura: Oh god, oh god.
Liam: Natural 20.
Laura: I feel like something's bad.
Matt: Roll for Trinket.
Sam: This music is fucking creepy.
Laura: Man. Why is it so tense?
Marisha: 31 stealth.
Matt: Good.
Taliesin: This Philip Glass nervous breakdown you're giving us is really--
Laura: That's good. 26 for Trinket.
Travis: (mimics music)
Sam: (mimics music)
Liam: 45. Natural 20.
Marisha: (gasps)
Sam: 41?
Liam: 45.
Matt: Holy shit!
Marisha: 45?!
Sam: 45?!
Liam: See ya, mothafuckers!
Marisha: That's your stealth? (all laugh)
Matt: All right, you guys make your way between areas as Trinket comes behind you--
Marisha: My god, 45.
Matt: Don't want him to stray too far in this circumstance.
Sam: I'm casting Detect Magic.
Laura: And the compass.
Marisha: And the compass.
Taliesin: We think we find him and it's just a rock.
Travis: Hey, you two, it's not a race.
Marisha: Yeah, hey Vax, oh fuck, it's a rock again.
Laura: Yes it is.
Matt: You sense the magical presence of it in the direction that you've been facing, but it seems further past.
Sam: Okay, keep going, it's around the rock.
Taliesin: Rock.
Laura: Again? Fuck! We go around the fucking rock.
Travis: You sure it's a rock?
Laura: I don't know, Grog.
Sam: Oh wait a second! Eh, all right.
Matt: What?
Sam: Detect Magic lasts for ten minutes!
Laura: So you don't have to cast again.
Marisha: Yeah, it lasts for a while.
Sam: So this is all one spell, yeah?
Matt: Yeah, you can maintain the-- okay. So you go with them?
Sam: Yeah!
Matt: Okay. Grog, you staying put or you going with them?
Travis: Staying there.
Matt: Okay. You all three searching, then?
Sam: Yes.
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Investigation check, investigation check, investigation check.
Sam: One.
Taliesin: Ugh.
Laura: 19.
Marisha: Oh Jesus, I thought it was a one at first.
Taliesin: Nine.
Matt: Nine, and?
Sam: Five, I--
Laura: 19.
Sam: I got a natural one.
Matt: You got a natural one?
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: The kraken eats me.
Matt: As you're digging through, your fingers, Taryon--
Sam: Yes?
Matt: Hits something hard.
Sam: (gasps) I got it. I've got it!
Laura: Shh!
Taliesin: Shh.
Sam: I've got it! (all shush)
Matt: As you pull up what you think is the stone, you look, and instead it's a humanoid head that is mostly skeletal bone with strips of flesh hanging off of it with one eye that is a pale swollen pink-white color.
Sam: (gags)
Matt: Yeah, you just start like (gags) you instinctively step back, start yelling about the point there.
Marisha: Richard Dreyfuss in Jaws.
Matt: Just for the sake of this, make a stealth check.
Marisha: Oh man, come on.
Sam: Natural one. (all groan)
Marisha: No, you are lying to me, you are lying!
Laura: Put that dice away, put that dice away right now!
Liam: Two in a row?
Sam: Yeah!
Marisha: No!
Liam: Wow.
Marisha: No, Tary!
Laura: Tary! You're fucking us, Tary!
Sam: (gagging noises)
Liam: (sings) Telling a story!
Matt: Holy shit. Okay. Keyleth, as you're carefully looking up in the shadows, you watch as this giant dark mound just diminishes and vanishes.
Taliesin: Oh no.
Marisha: And I just say, red alert, red alert, think we got a kraken coming. Think the weather is calling for a kraken tonight.
Matt: As you guys hear this, you glance about the vicinity and watch as suddenly a series of large tentacles (whump whump) around this large outcropping of what looks like stone or wood jutting out of the base of the floor.
Marisha: Please tell me you guys found a lodestone. Did you guys find it? Did you find it?
Laura: Did I find it while it was happening?
Marisha: Please tell me you found it.
Matt: You rolled a--
Laura: 19.
Matt: 19? You just barely hit the exterior of it when this happens. You're like, oh, I found it, you look over, see Taryon yell, and then watch this creature suddenly swift down and begin to crawl over the top.
Marisha: Vex, Vex, let's do the Daylight. Red alert, red alert, Daylight! Taryon, dig up the lodestone immediately--
Matt: I need all of you to make initiative checks.
Marisha: Fuck me! No!
Laura: Jeez!
Marisha: Fuck!
Taliesin: God damn it.
Laura: Maybe we can shoot Daylight directly into his eyeball.
Marisha: Natural 20!
All: Woo!
Travis: Do you really think Daylight's gonna help at this point?
Laura: In his eyes, maybe. He's not used to bright light.
Travis: Oh, thank god I have advantage.
Sam: It would help me and Taliesin see.
Marisha: That's true, not used to bright--
Liam: Aw, the humans. Aw.
Marisha: Just like, fwoomp, towards him. Over him, away from him.
Matt: All right. So.
Laura: Or directly at him.
Marisha: Towards him, yeah.
Matt: 25 to 20.
Sam: (whispers) I could've used Luck.
Liam: 24.
Matt: 24.
Marisha: 22.
Taliesin: Yeah, you could've used Luck.
Matt: 22, nice.
Sam: Forgot about it.
Taliesin: 17.
Laura: 19.
Marisha: Ah. Worked out yesterday. Ouch.
Matt: All right, 15?
Sam: 13.
Matt: 13.
Travis: 14 for Groggy Grog.
Laura: The Groggy-poo.
Sam: Liam, how do you remember when to use Luck?
Liam: Uh, when shit is exploding in your face?
Sam: Yeah, well, I forgot.
All: Ohh.
Matt: As you watch this entity suddenly emerge from the top, there--
All: No!
Taliesin: Not cool.
Laura: Whoa, he's really pretty in that light, though.
Taliesin: Yeah, he is very pretty.
Matt: Enjoy it.
Marisha: He's like a delightful Creole dish.
Liam: The inside of his mouth is so pretty (muffled yelling).
Matt: So. Top of the round. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Jeepers creepers.
Matt: You hear this noise through, and Keyleth giving the warning. As you glance over and see the top of this structure, the dark shadow of the kraken pull its way over the top.
Marisha: Don't hurt it!
Matt: You see this gleaming yellow eye on the one side that's near you, and what looks to be three, five, seven or more tentacles begin to curl over and pull it over the top, making its way towards your friends. What are you doing?
Liam: I'm clicking the boots of haste. And I am casting Bless on myself, on Keyleth, and on Grog.
Matt: Okay, what's the distance on that?
Liam: 30 feet.
Matt: 30 feet? Yeah, Grog is just in range.
Liam: You are blessed.
Travis: What's that mean?
Liam: It means on attacks or on saving throws, you can roll a d4 and add that for a minute, for the whole battle, basically.
Travis: Nice!
Matt: It is a concentration spell.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Great, thank you.
Matt: So that's your-- you used the Haste, you have your action. What are you gonna do for your movement?
Liam: I'm going to-- I'm 45 stealth, I'm going to back away to behind those giant shells.
Matt: Over here?
Marisha: Someone find the third fucking lodestone.
Matt: Your speed is 60 right now, so you can move 30 feet hasted underwater, swimming.
Liam: Mm-hm. So I'm gonna swim over that way. And I'm hasted, so action, action, I should have a bonus action, yeah?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: So I'll hide, if I'm not hidden already.
Matt: Yeah, you can do that. Roll a stealth check.
Liam: Good, 35.
Laura: We would've been a bunch of whales slamming into shit.
Matt: Okay, cool. Yeah. All right, so. That brings us to Keyleth.
Marisha: How far away am I from Vex?
Matt: From Vex? You're not sure. You'd probably be somewhere in the neighborhood of 35, 40 feet.
Marisha: Let me move towards-- I say, Vex!
Matt: You've used Alter Self on yourself?
Marisha: Huh?
Matt: You've altered yourself, right, to swim fine?
Marisha: Yeah. I can do that at will.
Matt: I know. So how many feet do you want to move?
Marisha: Enough to see Vex. Vex?
Matt: She's just on the other side of the rock, and as you say that, you look up, and notice the creature, and you see Vex's head just barely poke over this stone barrier.
Laura: I'm going--
Marisha: Daylight arrow! Now! And I prep my Daylight spell for whenever she draws her arrow. And I wait for as soon as I see the tip of her arrow to go.
Matt: Okay. So you're holding your casting action until you see her arrow go.
Marisha: And then I say, dear god, please, Taryon, find the other lodestone. Don't kill the kraken!
Sam: I didn't hear any of that.
Matt: Because he does not have an earpiece.
Marisha: Fuck! (all laugh)
Marisha: Fuck!
Liam: That loud, though?
Matt: But you do hear it, because you're underwater, and because of the--
Marisha: These things!
Matt: You do hear it. It's a little garbled, but you pick up the essence of what she's saying.
Marisha: (garbled) Use the compass. Lodestone.
Matt: All right, Keyleth, you're holding your action.
Taliesin: Coldstone? That's a great idea!
Marisha: (garbled) Coldstone Creamery. Go for the raspberry cheesecake.
Matt: Okay, as the kraken pulls its way over, you watch as its yellow eye all of a sudden glows blue.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: And you watch as the edge of its tentacles begin to (charging noise) give off this luminescent blue glow.
Marisha: No.
Matt: And suddenly this (electricity noise) burst of electrical energy shoots forth from it and completely encompasses the surrounding-- all creatures within 120 feet have to make a constitution saving throw. All of you.
Liam: d4, d4.
Travis: Yes, thank you.
Marisha: Plus a d4, plus a d4.
Taliesin: I don't get any-- my cloak doesn't get any bonus against this, does it?
Matt: No.
Marisha: Using the people-killer-- not bad. Not bad, people-killer.
Matt: This is a lair action for the kraken.
Laura: Oh, god.
Travis: A lair action for the kraken? 'Cause we're in its fucking fish-tank.
Matt: It's made this its lair for the past-- for a number of years.
Travis: Fuck you, Costco.
Liam: (laughs)
Travis: I meant Petco.
Laura: (laughs) "I meant Petco".
Taliesin: That's better!
Liam: Oh, yes!
Laura: Use Luck, Tary.
Sam: I did!
Laura: (laughs)
Liam: I did too! (all laugh)
Sam: And grateful for it.
Matt: All right, so-
Sam: 26.
Matt: Okay, so you take eight points of lightning damage. Percy.
Taliesin: 23.
Matt: 23, eight points of lightning damage. Keyleth.
Marisha: 19.
Matt: You take 19 points of lightning damage.
Marisha: 19.
Liam: 22, plus I'm set to lightning with the Deathwalker's Ward.
Matt: 19 halved to eight points of lightning damage-- oh wait, actually--
Liam: Halved twice, I should be quarter, right? If I made the save?
Matt: Oh, no you didn't make it.
Liam: Oh I didn't make it? 22 didn't make it? Oh.
Matt: No, I'm sorry it was--
Marisha: I said 19.
Matt: Right--
Marisha: And that took--
Laura: 18 damage.
Matt: I apologize, it was nine, nine, and 18 damage. So nine, nine, 18, 18.
Laura: I already forgot what I rolled, 'cause everybody's talking numbers. 14!
Matt: 18 points of lightning damage.
Laura: You got it!
Matt: Trinket?
Laura: Oh, shit... He doesn't make it.
Marisha: (imitating Oprah) You take 18 points of lightning damage!
Taliesin: (imitating Oprah) You take 18 points of lightning damage!
Matt: 18 points of lightning damage. Grog.
Travis: With my #blessed, 27.
Matt: You take eight points of lightning damage.
Marisha: (laughs) "#blessed"
Matt: Or nine-- sorry, nine.
Travis: Nine?
Matt: Nine.
Liam: #Bless bless bless.
Travis: Bless bless.
Matt: All righty. Vex, you're up. As you kinda reel from the sudden electrical shock that pulses out in the vicinity, what are you doing?
Laura: The Alter Self coin, does that take an action or is that--
Matt: Yes, it's to cast the spell on yourself.
Laura: Fuck, okay. Then I'm going to start with pulling out the arrow and doing what Keyleth and I talked about. Hey! I'm pulling out my arrow.
Marisha: Daylight on the tip of that arrow.
Liam: Finger guns.
Laura: And I'm gonna shoot it--
Matt: And you see it just slowly arc--
Marisha: Pew, pew, pew.
Laura: As close as I can to the Kraken's head and just, like, past him. I want it to go by the eyeball.
Matt: Okay, let me see here, Daylight.
Travis: You're throwing a meatball past a lion that's stalking you.
Laura: I mean, if I can get it in its head--
Taliesin: It's a really good meatball.
Sam: Hit it!
Laura: If I can hit it in its head, that's cool, but--
Marisha: It's a Hail Mary pass.
Travis: It'll be like, "Yeah, fuck these treats. I want that meatball."
Matt: Is this Light or Daylight?
Marisha: Daylight.
Matt: 'Cause Daylight you just choose a sphere for it to happen.
Travis: (watch talking)
Marisha: I've totally cast Daylight on an object before.
Sam: You don't need to.
Matt: You don't need to.
Matt: But we'll say for the purposes of this--
Marisha: But I can do that, right?
Matt: Sure.
Marisha: 'Cause I did that with Grog and his bull helmet.
Taliesin: So that way it'll stay lit over there.
Marisha: Over on the arrow.
Travis: (watch talking)
Matt: Sure.
Marisha: Like a flare--
Laura: What is happening to your watch?
Matt: Okay, we'll go with that.
Marisha: I don't know if that's allowed, but I know we've done that in the past.
Travis: (watch talking)
Matt: Oh, it happened, it happened. So as you hit that--
Travis: (watch says  "Zero miles")
Sam: What is going on?
Laura: His watch is telling him he's working out.
Matt: You're not working out.
Travis: Wow, Siri's fucking drunk right now. (all laugh)
Matt: I don't know, man, kraken just showed up. That sounds like a workout to me.
Travis: "Elevated heart rate."
Laura: Oh, I know! It said--
Travis: "Please, take a moment to breathe." (all laugh)
Matt: Well, on that note. Okay, so you focus as she draws the arrow and pulls with intent in the back of the bow. As you do, you focus and you watch as, Vex, you aim and then close your eyes as you see this spark of energy curl off the front of the arrow. You see bright, nature-based daylight burst out of the arrow as you release it. Go ahead and make an attack against the kraken with disadvantage, please.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: Come on.
Laura: Come on!
Laura: Come on!
Marisha: Come on!
Laura: Come on, come on.
Matt: No, you were right, if you choose a point with an object you're holding, and one that isn't being worn, the light shines from the object. You were correct.
Laura: 26.
Matt: 26, that hits! Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: (high-pitched) Okay. Well, all right!
Liam: Totally in-character.
Laura: (deep voice) 12 plus (normal voice) one lightning damage.
Matt: All right, so 13.
Laura: This is not a Sneak Attack and I obviously can't have done Hunter's Mark.
Matt: Right, so the arrow sinks into the underside of the kraken's dark form. You're just barely making out bits of its shape. As the light hits, you can see now, close to it looks like ten various tentacles curling and finding its way over the top of this structure. It slams into the side, and daylight brightly sprays out from under it.
Laura: I want it to be by its eye.
Matt: By the way, because daylight-- no, it lasts for an hour. So you watch as this light is now billowing from underneath the creature. You can watch as its pupil adjusts to the light. It does not appear to be blinded or have any issue with the daylight, however, it is now a beacon, and the arrow now partially jammed into its side, you have a very clear idea and a bright view of the battlefield around it as this kraken is now emitting light in its vicinity.
Marisha: Sure.
Laura: Well, now there's shadows.
Travis: And a giant megalodon comes and eats it. (all laugh)
Laura: Ooh, that'd be great.
Matt: So that's your first attack.
Laura: Oh, yeah. I can't do a spell for my second? I can't do Alter Self on my second?
Matt: No, you've already attacked once, that was part of the attack action.
Laura: I was just checking. Okay, do I still get disadvantage if I attack it again?
Matt: Yep.
Laura: Okay, I'm gonna attack it again.
Matt: It's not about aim, it's about the actual-- the water resistance.
Laura: Okay, I'm gonna attack it again.
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: What's 15 plus seven?
Travis: 22.
Laura: 22.
Matt: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: 12 plus... just one damn lightning damage.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: One damn.
Laura: (Southern accent) One damn lightning damage there.
Matt: You watch as the spark of energy from the arrow hits it the second time, the daylight obstructing your view, and the energy bursts around it. The lightning damage you're used to seeing from any creature it impacts, the lightning seems to just hit its blubbery hide and vanish.
Laura: Right, 'cause lightning-- it just did lightning. Obviously it's immune to lightning. Right. And I'm gonna use my motion to back the fuck off and try to get behind that rock outcropping. Laser pointer. Okay, yeah, sure. Just on the other side of it.
Matt: That's as far as you can get.
Laura: Okay, cool.
Matt: Because you don't have your Alter Self form yet. You're like (swimming noises). You're slowly swimming through this water, sluggishly.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: As far as you get Trinket, you want to give Trinket any sort of movement on this?
Laura: Yeah, can he back up behind that pillar?
Matt: Right here?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah, Trinket moves up and guards himself behind the side. All right. Percival.
Taliesin: I'm gonna use my bonus action to cast Hex on the kraken. I'm gonna Hex the kraken.
Matt: By the way, Vax, did you make--
Laura: Oh, did I get a bonus action, I guess I could've--
Marisha: Don't kill it, don't kill it.
Taliesin: No, I just want to know where it is.
Matt: What do you want to do for your bonus action?
Taliesin: There's nothing I can do to it.
Laura: Can I hide for my bonus action as rogue?
Matt: You can.
Laura: Yeah, I'll do that.
Taliesin: I literally have only one power, and that's to electrocute it, which does nothing.
Marisha: These violet candies are delicious.
Taliesin: Really good. They're really good and they're a problem.
Marisha: Just delicious.
Taliesin: I'm going to dig the lodestone out of the dirt.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Don't worry about it.
Taliesin: I'm gonna spend my turn keeping an eye on the thing I just Hexed so I know where it is.
Matt: Okay. You go ahead and spend your entire turn pulling the lodestone out, and you're now holding it in your hands.
Taliesin: And I'm also turning to Tary and going, (whispers) find the next one, we've gotta get out of here.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Okay. So that's your action. Do you want to move at all?
Taliesin: Yeah, once I've got the lodestone, I wanna-- well, I don't have the bag.
Laura: You're next to Tary, though, you can put it in his.
Taliesin: I'm gonna put it in Tary's bag.
Matt: Okay, so you move over and you're able to go ahead and put it.
Taliesin: And I'm gonna try and see if I can get some cover, as far away from that thing as possible. Whatever I can do.
Matt: Five, ten. You're not able really to get any cover, unfortunately, because the water's like (swimming noises), you're swimming through after putting it inside there, and you move along, you used your action to pull it up, kinda put it inside there. As the rest of the turn you just swim past, that's as far as you can get.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn.
Taliesin: Oh, god.
Matt: All right. Now it's the kraken's turn. Let's see. Swim speed of 60 feet.
Taliesin: Fuck you.
Matt: It coasts around, this direction. We'll say it gets over in this side here, perspective-wise. Vex, what'd you roll for your stealth again? It was--
Laura: I didn't roll after I said I hid.
Matt: For your hide, because you're gonna hide for your bonus action, so go ahead and make your hide check.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Stealth check.
Laura: Oh, that's good, that's good, 35.
Liam: Rogue!
Sam: 35!
Matt: Okay. By the way, Vax, I meant to ask  go ahead and make a concentration check. So it's a constitution saving throw.
Liam: Jeebus. I'm gonna use Luck. All right. 15.
Matt: 15. Okay, you maintain concentration on the--
Liam: Shite.
Matt: -- Bless to you guys, so you still have that. All righty.
Taliesin: I'm not happy with any of this.
Matt: So, the kraken is now--
Marisha: Don't kill it, don't kill it, don't kill it.
Taliesin: How can I?
Matt: Its tentacles begin to whip outward. It's going to make one strike against Vex--
Laura: Aw, he saw me?
Matt: -- one strike against Tary, and one strike against Grog!
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: 'Cause why not?
Laura: 35 is not good enough to hide from him!
Matt: Wait. That's right, you're hidden, so it does not. It's Tary, Percival, and Grog.
Laura: Oh, sorry.
Taliesin: You did this to me.
Laura: I'm sorry, that's--
Matt: That is a total of 32 against Tary.
Sam: Sure! Oh, yeah that hits. Yeah, of course.
Matt: Percy, that is 23?
Taliesin: Oh yeah, that hits.
Matt: And Grog, that is 23 again.
Travis: It sure hits.
Taliesin: Not speaking as Percy, this is legitimately nightmare fuel right now. I'm not sleeping tonight.
Matt: All right.
Travis: You got a problem with--
Marisha: You hate fish!
Taliesin: I do, I have a--
Laura: Oh, that's right, you hate fish!
Taliesin: Shh! Don't tell the internet, they'll find--
Marisha: I'm so sorry, you're so right!
Travis: Do it. Full blast.
Sam: Do not send him packages of fish.
Marisha: Holy shit.
Matt: Taryon, you take 16 bludgeoning damage.
Liam: Trinket kraken. Trinket kraken.
Matt: Percival, you take 20 bludgeoning damage.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: Grog, you take 19 bludgeoning damage.
Travis: Cool.
Matt: And all three of you are grappled. The tentacle wraps around you and holds you in place. Your movement is zero currently until you try and break free.
Liam: Oh my gosh.
Laura: Oh god.
Taliesin: Oh no.
Travis: It's just trying to get a feel for the friends that are in its space.
Laura: Oh god, oh god.
Matt: All right. That ends the kraken's turn as it goes ahead and grapples three of your allies in the process. Grog, it's your turn.
Marisha: That's not cool. At all.
Travis: It's my turn?
Matt: Yes, it is.
Taliesin: It can regrow tentacles.
Travis: I would like to watery rage.
Matt: Okay, that's your bonus action.
Travis: Yeah that's my bonus action.
Taliesin: You should see a doctor about that.
Travis: And can I smash the titanstone knuckles together to cast Enlarge on myself?
Matt: Yes, you can. So, you shift into your larger form.
Travis: Yeah, I'm a bigger fish now.
Laura: This is bad.
Matt: You are still grappled by the creature, but you are larger.
Taliesin: This is monstrous.
Travis: Can I fight with the strength of the (sings) titanstone knuckles to break that grapple?
Matt: To slam your gauntlets together, that wasn't-- Does it specify an action on the ability? Look at the item.
Travis: It is an action.
Laura: Aw.
Matt: So you cannot break free currently this turn. That is your action to transform. You're still grappled.
Travis: He just got a bigger chew toy.
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Sweet. I'm digging it. That's my turn.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Can't do anything else.
Matt: Tary!
Sam: Ah!
Matt: You're up.
Sam: Me?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Oh, Christ.
Matt: You're currently grappled, you can't move.
Sam: I can't move my hands or anything.
Matt: You can. I mean, you can't move, like your movement is zero.
Sam: My body.
Matt: You can do things. You can still cast. Any attacks are at disadvantage because you are currently restrained within the grapple.
Sam: Okay. The attacks are at disadvantage. Jesus.
Matt: Attack rolls. Spells are still unaffected but--
Sam: I'm going to reach for my robes, so carefully sewn by young Laura Bailey.
Liam: Who?
Laura: Who?
Sam: And rip off-- I think I have a patch.
Taliesin: Like Velcro pants.
Sam: Don't I have some spells on there?
Liam: Stop. Tary time.
Marisha: (sings "Hammer Time")
Sam: Is that from my robe or is that somewhere else? No, you gave me some scroll spells. Some spell scrolls.
Matt: You have some spell scrolls, you have patches on your robe, and you have your helmet.
Sam: I wrote down that I have a hypnotic pattern somehow. Was that a patch or was that something else?
Taliesin: Hypnotic pattern?
Matt: That's not part of your helmet, so that would probably be one of your patches.
Sam: It must have been a--
Taliesin: Like a boy scout!
Sam: It must have been a patch or something. Oh yeah! Yeah yeah yeah, patch! It's a patch. It's a patch.
Taliesin: Bravery!
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I'm ripping off a patch.
Matt: Okay. So you rip off one of the patches and you go ahead, and you're using Hypnotic Pattern?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: That weaves through the air inside a 30-foot cube within range. So you create a hypnotic pattern around the exterior--
Sam: Correct.
Matt: -- of the face of the kraken where the eyes are.
Sam: Yes.
Matt: So as you tear the patch off, you release it in the water and you watch the patch slowly drift up and for a second you're like, "Nothing happened!"
Sam: Wait, what?
Matt: And there's a spark out of your hand (pff) and you watch as suddenly there's an array of colors and various flashes in the face, in the area around the kraken's face.
Sam: Oh. Oh I do-- it worked! Okay.
Matt: Wisdom saving throw. What's your DC? On the item?
Sam: On the item. Jesus. So many things.
Laura: Magic is hard, guys.
Sam: I know!
Taliesin: Wasn't it easier when you just had to rhyme?
Sam: I know, right? It just says 'Spell scroll'. The item-- I mean, I think it's mine.
Matt: This is the Robe of Useful Items, correct?
Sam: Oh. Does that have its own DC?
Matt: The spell scroll-- oh yes, it is one of the scrolls.
Taliesin: It's nice to see someone else going through this.
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: It's just one of the scrolls.
Matt: So yeah, I'll say I'll just use your DC.
Sam: My DC?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Is 17.
Matt: 17. Wisdom save on that.
Marisha: Spells suck.
Matt: That is a 21. So yes, it saves.
Marisha: They're great.
Sam: Ah, shit.
Matt: Unfortunately.
Sam: I thought we were taking him out.
Matt: So as the spark hits, the slight flash vanishes and you watch as the lids are still closed tight and they open with this horrible sickening sliding sound and the glowing yellow eyes still seem trained on various allies of yours in the vicinity.
Laura: Does he gots two eyes or just the one eyes?
Matt: Two eyes.
Laura: Got it.
Matt: All right. Is that your turn, Taryon?
Taliesin: He's not a pirate.
Sam: I mean--
Laura: Arr.
Taliesin: Arr.
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: All right, top of the round.
Sam: I mean-- I think I'll cast--
Travis: Holy shit.
Sam: No. I mean, he's got me grappled. I can't do Sanctuary, right? He's already got me.
Matt: Well, you've already used your action to try and use the patch.
Sam: That's a bonus action.
Matt: The patch is a bonus action?
Sam: Uh, no, the Sanctuary is a bonus action.
Matt: Then you can do that, yeah.
Sam: All right, I'll cast Sanctuary on-- on myself.
Matt: Okay. Sanctuary on yourself.
Travis: Don't act like you have to choose who it goes on.
Matt: All right, Vax, you're up.
Liam: Oh my god.
Matt: You glance just barely over the side and you can see it's already wrapped up Grog, Taryon, and Percy with its tentacles.
Travis: But one of us does not look concerned.
Liam: Shit.
Marisha: Get 'em undone.
Taliesin: I'm fine.
Liam: What'd you say?
Marisha: Get them undone.
Liam: I'm going to start-- who's the closest of all the people grappled to me?
Matt: That'd be Grog.
Liam: Grog, all right. I'm going to start swimming there over the shells. And I'll blow--
Matt: (counts) That's as far as you can go.
Liam: And I'll use my bonus action for more movement.
Marisha: I hadn't gotten that far.
Matt: Okay, to dash?
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: Give me a week.
Matt: That'll give you just the time to swim right next to him.
Liam: Okay. And I'd like to use Whisper to tear into the tentacle holding him to try to get him free of it.
Matt: Okay. So are you attempting to--
Liam: To un-grapple him.
Matt: Un-grapple him? All right. I need you to go ahead and make a-- because this is not you in the grapple, this is him--
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: This is an athletics check.
Liam: Athletics check, goddammit Matt!
Matt: Acrobatics is to escape from it. To help somebody else you're having to actually physically force it off.
Liam: Plus-- that's shit. Shit. Luck. 11.
Matt: Nope. You try and grab, you're hacking at the side, but as you're hacking with the blade, you're watching as it's not quite beating past the hide of the tentacle around it.
Liam: Okay. I'm out.
Matt: Okay. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: I knew that's what you were going to say. So all my friends are still grappled.
Matt: A lot of them are, yeah.
Taliesin: Three of them.
Matt: Three of them.
Travis: Just go get the lodestones.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm going to cast Locate Object, see if I can find that third lodestone.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: They're fine. You're fine. You're level 16, motherfuckers. You're fine.
Taliesin: Oh god, I want to die.
Marisha: I want to find the lodestone.
Liam: I've been in a dragon.
Taliesin: Please help.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Locate Object.
Matt: All right. The third lodestone is in the direction and just past-- it's this way, at least.
Marisha: I'm sorry.
Laura: Wait, which direction?
Matt: So you're here.
Marisha: Your hand is lateral.
Matt: You're here.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: It's going this way.
Marisha: Towards the way your hand is going.
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: There from you.
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to use my Alter Self swim speed.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: And swim that direction as far as I can. Do I get a better location on it?
Matt: You get there, and you're still feeling it in this direction.
Marisha: I'll double my speed.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Yeah, that's really confusing. On a fundamental level.
Marisha: Can I do another investigation check? Is it near me?
Matt: Unfortunately, no. Investigation is one of those things where you spend your action moving through and searching in the vicinity. Other than your bonus action, that's about as much as you can get. You just feel it's in this direction from you.
Marisha: Okay. As a bonus action, who's near me?
Matt: The kraken's about 20 feet above you.
Marisha: Yeah yeah yeah yeah. Party members.
Matt: Party members, you have Percival, Taryon, and Vax. I'm sorry, that's Vex over there.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to do-- you're fine, right?
Taliesin: Eh.
Marisha: You're great. I'm going to do a Grasping Vine and see if I can get Taryon out of the kraken's grasp with Grasping Vine.
Matt: Okay. From--
Marisha: A lot of big words.
Taliesin: Get Taryon out of the kraken's grasp with Grasping Vine.
Matt: Where does the Grasping Vine start from?
Marisha: Can I get it kind of towards that-- sorry, deal with me. This guy here?
Matt: This stone?
Marisha: Yeah. Yeah yeah yeah.
Matt: Right there? Okay so a vine curls up, whips towards--
Marisha: Taryon.
Matt: Taryon. Wraps around--
Sam: (choking sounds)
Taliesin: Oh no.
Matt: For this, I'm going to say this is an opposed check of the vine versus the kraken's strength.
Marisha: Strength?
Matt: I need you to go ahead and roll and add your wisdom modifier.
Sam: You're tearing me apart.
Marisha: People-killer. People-killer! That's good!
Taliesin: Ooh!
Marisha: My strength?
Matt: No, your wisdom modifier.
Laura: No, your wisdom.
Travis: Wisdom.
Marisha: Oh, just my modifier?
Matt: Just your wisdom modifier.
Liam: Wise as fuck.
Marisha: Wise as fuck, motherfucker! That was a 15. 26!
Matt: 26. It tugs and tugs, but it's not strong enough to break free.
Laura: Oh no! He's so strong!
Matt: The vine is now pulling back and forth between the tentacle and Taryon's like, argh! Being pulled from both sides.
Taliesin: Drop it, drop it!
Marisha: (yells)
Sam: (yells)
Laura: Oh no!
Matt: Unfortunately.
Laura: It's the Dread Emperor all over again!
Taliesin: All over again. Nope. Don't say it.
Travis: Break him.
Matt: It's a very strong creature.
Marisha: Okay, but I'm still-- lodestone's, over here! And that's all I get.
Matt: Okay, ending Keyleth's turn we come to the top of the round, I need everyone to go ahead and make a constitution saving throw as once again--
Marisha: All of us?
Matt: Once again, the kraken, its eyes light up blue and its tentacles release another burst of electrical energy in the vicinity.
Travis: #blessed
Matt: #blessed
Travis: Constitution, right?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: (zapping noise)
Sam: 15.
Matt: 19 points of lightning damage.
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: 19 points of lightning damage.
Taliesin: God damn it!
Marisha: Seven.
Matt: Ooh, 19 points of lightning damage.
Liam: Six, Deathwalker's Ward.
Matt: 19 reduced to nine points of lightning damage.
Laura: I get 19 points.
Matt: 19 points.
Travis: 32, and I have resistance to lightning damage with the Exalted Knuckles.
Matt: All right so you take 5 points of lightning damage. Trinket?
Laura: Natural 20! Just kidding, he gets it, too. (all laugh)
Matt: Okay, so that is 19 points of lightning damage. At the end of that turn, the kraken is going to go ahead and use-- let's see-- get in range here-- going to go ahead and use one of its legendary actions to do a tentacle attack against Keyleth.
Liam: Good gravy.
Matt: That is 29.
Marisha: That definitely hits.
Sam: This is a powerful creature.
Travis: It's like a crustacean beholder.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Keyleth, you take 21 points of bludgeoning damage.
Marisha: That really-- that hurts, 21 points, I'm at 91 so 21 puts me to 70, right? Yeah.
Matt: I will say I will use these red markers here as people that are currently grappled.
Travis: Gra-pelled?
Matt: Because you are now grappled and restrained, Keyleth.
Marisha: What?
Laura: (gasp) Oh yeah, he can grapple like all of us! (Southern accent) He's got enough of those tentacles. (all laugh)
Marisha: Who's not grappled?
Laura: Me.
Matt: Oh, Percival, because of your Hex, I need you to go ahead and make a constitution saving throw.
Liam: Your accent is showing.
Laura: (Southern accent) It's showing?
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Oh no.
Liam: (Southern accent) You're talking like that.
Taliesin: That's a 19.
Marisha: (Southern accent) The later the hour gets--
Matt: Okay, you're fine.
Laura: (still Southern) No that's mom.
Marisha: The longer-- mom's been in town for a while.
Matt: That brings us to Vex. Vex, what are you doing? You're hiding behind the rock. You watch as four of your allies are now grappled by this creature.
Laura: Fucking A. I gotta use the Alter Self, so I can actually do something, though. I won't be able to get to anybody, I'm just going to waste a turn.
Marisha: Laughing at your accent.
Matt: All right, so you cast Alter Self on you as an action?
Laura: Oh, am I still doing it?
Marisha: A little.
Liam: Little bit.
Laura: (extra posh) I'm using Alter Self.
Matt: All right, so you grab the coin that Taryon gave you. You focus on it--
Liam: (Southern accent) Alter Self.
Matt: And your gills suddenly pull from the side, and all your fingers get webbed suddenly, and you begin to be able to move at your full--
Laura: Okay, I'm gonna swim behind the rock-- god damn it, light-- laser, no! The other rock, sorry.
Matt: This rock here?
Laura: Yeah, but on the other side of it.
Matt: Okay so that's (counts)--
Laura: And I'm gonna--
Matt: Your full movement.
Laura: And I'm gonna use my bonus action to hide again.
Matt: Okay. You still have your action, by the way.
Laura: Oh!
Matt: That was your movement to get the-- oh, no no no--
Laura: No no no, I used Alter Self.
Matt: Sorry, sorry, action was spell, movement, you're right, bonus action.
Laura: Bonus action to hide.
Matt: Okay, make a stealth check.
Sam: Trinket has to save us all.
Travis: Trinket's pretty low (laughs).
Laura: And you cast a spell so we can't use Pass Without a Trace Anymore? So that's 24.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. So you're keeping low. At the end of your turn, it's going to use its other two legendary actions to do Lightning--
Marisha: No, no, I cast Grasping Vine, which is technically a bonus action. It should not impede with my concentration spell, so we should still have Pass Without A Trace, correct? Nope! I cast Locate Object--
Laura: Yeah, you did.
Marisha: Totally ruined that!
Matt: Yep. Sorry.
Marisha: Sorry! Nope.
Matt: That's okay.
Marisha: Lodestone--
Sam: Marisha argues with herself and loses.
Travis: Totally loses.
Marisha: Yep, podcast coming to the alpha network. Project Alpha.
Matt: It uses Lightning Storm with its two other actions and begins to charge up now, and as most of you are in the vicinity you watch as the front of its mouth-- you now see between the darkness of the daylight that is glowing beneath it, the light begins to surge electrical energy. You see this strange beaked, sharp mouth that opens and as it does, bolts of thick lightning energy shock out from it. That's going to be hitting Grog, Vax, and Percival.
Liam: Bless.
Matt: So I need you guys to make dexterity saving throws please.
Taliesin: Yay!
Marisha: Big money no whammies, big money no whammies!
Taliesin: 23!
Matt: 23, you take 11 points of lightning damage.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Sam: Oh, wow.
Liam: 27.
Matt: You take no points of lightning damage because of your Evade.
Sam: Wow!
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: And?
Travis: 11, but I have resistance to lightning damage.
Matt: Right, so you take--
Liam: Pirouette.
Matt: -- 11 points of lightning damage. All right, that brings us to Percival's turn. You are still grappled and held in the creature's grasp.
Taliesin: Okay.
Marisha: Just get out, man.
Taliesin: Yeah, I'm going to try and-- is acrobatics a way to get out of this?
Matt: Acrobatics or athletics, your choice.
Taliesin: I'll take acrobatics. (all laugh)
Matt: All right.
Laura: All of us wiggling.
Taliesin: All right, so here go. Let's roll well. I get advantage on this, right?
Matt: No.
Taliesin: Okay, just thought I'd see if I could sneak that through. I rolled a really-- I can't reroll that with Resolve can I? No, 'cause it's not a save.
Marisha: It's a big-ass kraken, though, it's not bad.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: 16? You try and slide through, but it's holding too fast. You can't escape, unfortunately. So that's your action.
Taliesin: Do I have anything-- with anything else, do I have anything I can do? Is there a bonus action thing I can do here? No, I am just-- yeah. I think about how easy it would be to reload my gun right now if I had one.
Matt: Okay. That's your turn?
Taliesin: That's-- yeah.
Matt: All right. It is now the kraken's turn. The kraken is going to shift over here. Still holding you guys in this vicinity, pushes past the area, kind of reaching the ground area. We're going to say push you up to there. It's going to go ahead and make a bite attack against you, Grog, you're the largest meat in this circumstance. That is going to be a 27 to hit.
Travis: That hits.
Matt: All right. So you take 27 points of piercing damage. Because you are raging it is halved, to we'll say 14 points of damage. However. As it pulls towards you, its tentacles pull up, and that giant piercing beak just (gulp noise) swallows you.
All: What?!
Matt: You suddenly-- everything goes dark, and you feel yourself being pulled into the dark interior of the kraken, the burning numbness of the acid of its interior beginning to burn away at the outside of your flesh. You are restrained, you are inside, you are blind.
Travis: Cool.
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: You watch Grog, even in his large form, just disappear inside the kraken's maw. That's going to bring us to Grog's turn!
Travis: Cool. I'm in the womb again.
Matt: Yes you are.
Travis: There's fluid. Do I hear a heartbeat?
Matt: Very faintly you hear (heartbeat sounds). It's like a triple heartbeat.
Travis: Nice. Right. Cool. Am I restrained anymore?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Because I'm in the gut?
Matt: Because you're inside, being crushed by its interior muscles that are pulling you towards its digestive tract.
Liam: It's fun, isn't it?
Travis: Nice, cool, yeah.
Laura: How do you break free of being restrained?
Travis: That threw off my plan.
Liam: Attack with disadvantage.
Travis: How about-- Yeah, let's try-- God, can I even make a melee attack here?
Matt: You can, it's at disadvantage.
Travis: Yeah, let's give it a whirl, and I'll make it a reckless attack.
Marisha: Yeah yeah yeah!
Liam: Bless.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Travis: Bless.
Matt: Now it's a regular attack, just one roll.
Liam: Bless roll. Bless roll. Make that big roll.
Marisha: Come on. Come on. You're still blessed yeah?
Travis: Yeah, I'm still blessed.
Taliesin: #blessed.
Travis: That's a 30.
Matt: 30 hits.
Taliesin: You hit a creature from inside of it--
Marisha: Inside of it, yeah yeah yeah.
Taliesin: There's literally nowhere your fists could go that wouldn't hit it.
Liam: But it's like--
Travis: 23.
Matt: 23, okay.
Laura: Are you punching it?
Travis: Nah, I'm hitting it with the dwarven thrower.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Two hits.
Matt: Attacking again?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Same thing?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: One roll.
Travis: 10. 26.
Matt: 26 hits. Roll damage.
Travis: 22.
Matt: 22. All right.
Travis: And my bonus action-- I would like to be very discouraged about my current state of affairs.
Matt: Just regular rage right now, right?
Travis: Yep, just regular. Can I use my bonus action to go into a frenzied rage because I have never been swallowed? And I don't like it.
Matt: Okay. Let me check one thing real fast, as far as the frenzied rage goes.
Laura: That's good, that's good, that's good.
Taliesin: How do you get un-swallowed?
Marisha: Please don't kill the kraken!
Travis: Fuck this big squid.
Marisha: Gonna have a really hard time explaining that to my ancestors.
Travis: We can kill them, too, it's not a problem.
Marisha: That's not-- no.
Laura: Maybe we can just rip open its guts and then leave it.
Matt: All right, so we'll leave that as the turn. So you go into a frenzied rage as your bonus.
Travis: Yeah.
Taliesin: We'll resuscitate the kraken if it comes to it.
Marisha: I could do that!
Taliesin: If we have to resuscitate a kraken--
Taliesin: -- we can resuscitate the kraken.
Marisha: -- we can resuscitate the kraken.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, that ends your turn, Grog.
Travis: Yes.
Matt: Tary.
Sam: Pfft. Still grappled, yes?
Matt: Still grappled and restrained, yes.
Taliesin: Grappling with many things.
Sam: I feel like I should not be here, but there's no way I can break free. He's super strong, and I'm not. So--
Taliesin: Keep fucking with him.
Matt: As a note, too, those--
Marisha: Find the lodestone. I did tell you to find the lodestone.
Matt: I forgot earlier.
Laura: He's grappled.
Sam: (muffled) Okay!
Matt: Any of you that are grappled or restrained by the creature have disadvantage on your dexterity saving throws. I forgot about it earlier. It's fine going forward. Keep that in mind.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: Okay.
Sam: Okay. On dexterity saves.
Taliesin: Thanks, chat room.
Matt: Mm-hm. I just remembered from the rules, here.
Liam: Oh.
Sam: I will rip off--
Matt: I'm sure chat room was on that.
Taliesin: I'm sure chat room was.
Sam: I will rip off another patch. I'm just using all my tricks.
Taliesin: You don't need no stinkin' patches.
Sam: I will rip off another patch and use, because I'm touching it, I will use Vampiric Touch.
Liam: Ooh!
Laura: Ooh!
Travis: Ooh!
Matt: Okay!
Taliesin: Take you to a goth club.
Liam: The twins like.
Matt: Hah, take you to the goth club. All righty.
Sam: I think that's a touch spell, right?
Matt: It is, you still have to roll an attack to hit it--
Sam: Shit.
Matt: But it's a melee spell attack, I'm pretty sure. So Vampiric Touch. All right, so you use your action to cast it on yourself and then make a melee spell attack against the creature, so go ahead and roll a d20. With disadvantage because you are restrained.
Sam: Aw. So the lower of those two.
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Sam: I can't use Luck on the lower of those two?
Matt: You can.
Sam: Oh. Okay. Okay, that's better. Still not gonna be enough. Plus my spell attack bonus? Is that what, how--?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: That's still not gonna be enough. So that's 20?
Matt: 20 hits!
Sam: Oh!
Matt: Yeah!
Taliesin: Worth it.
Matt: All righty, so that's 3d6 necrotic damage
Sam: That's not a lot
Laura: Ooh!
Taliesin: That'll help.
Sam: That's not a lot.
Laura: No, that's something.
Sam: Oh, nine, 14!
Matt: 14, so you do 14 points of necrotic damage to the kraken, and you regain seven hit points.
Laura: (gasps)
Liam: Hey.
Sam: Nice!
Matt: As you draw its life force away, grabbing onto the tendrils of its tentacles like, "Argh!" You watch as the necrotic energy pulses into it and pulls the life force into you
Sam: Okay.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: Y'know, small but okay.
Matt: All right.
Sam: And once again casting, recasting Sanctuary on myself.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: Because it went away when I did that.
Matt: Sanctuary is concentration?
Sam: No, well, I don't know, but it goes away when I attack him.
Matt: True. However, if Sanctuary is a concentration, 'cause Vampiric Touch is also a concentration.
Sam: Well, it would have gone away either way, right?
Matt: I'm saying, if Sanctuary is a concentration spell--
Laura: Oh, you can keep up Vampiric Touch if you want.
Matt: Yeah, you could do it every turn, if you wanted.
Sam: Oh, I can?
Liam: Just keep yanking that out.
Sam: Oh, well then, I'll just keep it going.
Matt: If you wanted to.
Sam: Yes, I do, I do.
Matt: The Sanctuary is not concentration. It lasts for a minute. So your Sanctuary's still on, you don't have to cast it again-- Oh no, you did attack. So you cast it again.
Sam: So I do have to cast it again.
Taliesin: Oh.
Matt: But yeah, so you can have both on.
Sam: Okay. I have both on.
Matt: There we go. There we go, we figured that out.
Liam: Lot of rules.
Matt: All righty. Top of the round. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay, I'm gonna use Disengage to kick away from this big fucking thing and start-- I'm hasted, so I should be able to get to Keyleth.
Matt: (counting)
Liam: And she's grappled, correct?
Matt: She is.
Liam: I'm just gonna start cutting. So, try to do what I did with Grog before.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: So, athletics, you said?
Matt: Yeah, I'd say cutting at the tentacle-- I mean, both are pretty rough for you because you don't do a lot of damage with the dagger. I'll say for the sake of going forward in this, go ahead and make an attack roll.
Liam: Attack roll. I'm gonna use my last Luck of the day. Because that was a one.
Marisha: Can I say anything to him in the process?
Matt: Yeah, you can.
Marisha: I can?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: I say (garbled) Lodestone! Right there!
Liam: I ignore and I keep cutting.
Taliesin: I like that we all keep doing that with the fingers.
Sam: That's, we got that one already.
Liam: 16, 29, that's very high. 31.
Matt: 31 hits, go ahead and roll damage.
Sam: We don't know where the next one is.
Taliesin: She does.
Matt: Not Sneak Attack.
Liam: Right.
Marisha: No, this is the next one!
Sam: You found it?
Taliesin: She found the next one.
Marisha: This is the next one, I found it, where I am!
Liam: Because even though she's grappled, it's still way far away.
Matt: Yeah. The actual body, the sensitive part of the body is away.
Liam: All right, so, where the hell-- two, plus ten-- oh boy.
Marisha: I'm right there. That's me, the lodestone is over here somewhere.
Sam: (sings) That's me in the ocean
Sam: (sing) That's me in the spotlight--
Taliesin: (sing) That's me in the spotlight--
Marisha: (sing) That's me in the spotlight--
Liam: That's 15.
Matt: 15 points of damage?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: All right, you just rush to the side of her and begin hacking away at the tentacle. You watch as you're carving into it and it begins to break away. It doesn't fully--
Liam: I've got one more attack, so I'll keep going then.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Liam: All right. This is venom. That's 24, plus--
Matt: That hits.
Liam: Okay, good, plus nothing. Where the hell do I keep putting my dice? Where's a four? Where's a fucking four? There it is, plus four is ten. I'll unload some poison in it, that's a DC 15.
Matt: Okay, it succeeds.
Liam: Okay. Is it halved then, or nothing, for the poison?
Matt: What does it say on the item?
Sam: Percival! Take this down..
Taliesin: Sure.
Liam: It doesn't say anything about halving it.
Matt: Yeah, so it's just--
Liam: So I guess that means zero.
Matt: Nothing.
Liam: So ten, for the second.
Matt: Ten points of damage. Okay, it doesn't quite carve away entirely.
Liam: God damn.
Matt: It's close, you can see it's taking damage and the tentacle's starting to pull away--
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: But it's still holding her fast. You're still grappled.
Marisha: I'm still grappled.
Matt: That's the end of your turn?
Liam: That's the end of my turn.
Matt: Okay. End of your turn, it's going to make a Bash action. Since Taryon and Percival are right next to each other, it takes the two tentacles, pulls them back,
Travis: Oh my god.
Matt: Whack! And slams them into each other.
Taliesin: Augh.
Travis: (cackles)
Matt: Both of you guys take 11 points of bludgeoning damage
Taliesin: Oh my god.
Matt: And are pushed adjacent to each other, which you already are.
Travis: I like this thing.
Matt: So, that's that.
Taliesin: I am not having a happy time. 11 points?
Matt: All right. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Hm, hm hm hm. So I'm still attached?
Matt: You are, yes. Yeah, there's a 30-foot reach on each of these tentacles, so you're still just on the outskirts of its reach. It's damaged, it's hurt, it would be easier to break free, but it would take your action to do so.
Marisha: Hm. I turn to Vax, grappled, and I say Lodestone!, and I point with the best direction that I can with my remaining--
Matt: Okay, so you point this way.
Sam: Did it make its wisdom saving throw when it attacked me?
Matt: Actually, you are part of the Bash, so that is an 18, plus 12. So yeah, 30.
Sam: Well then, yes it did. (all laugh)
Matt: Yeah, sorry.
Travis: Well, fuck. No need to add it up.
Taliesin: Oh, I have a saving throw, constitution-- I have a concentration--
Matt: Yes, you do.
Taliesin: No.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Taliesin: A one.
Marisha: A one.
Matt: Yeah, Hex is gone, sorry buddy
Marisha: Who's still grappled?
Matt: You are.
Taliesin: We are.
Marisha: Taryon and Percy?
Matt: Taryon, Percival--
Matt: Grog has been swallowed.
Taliesin: Grog is in the belly of the beast.
Marisha: And Grog.
Travis: Don't worry about me.
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: Okay--
Taliesin: He's happy. He's in a better place.
Marisha: I look at the twins, and I say "Lodestone! There-ish!"
Laura: I'm on the other side of the rock but I can hear you.
Marisha: Lodestone! And I do Control Water?
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: And I'm gonna redirect flow, and I'm gonna push all of us-- I don't give a fuck, we'll be fine, in this direction. You see my laser?
Matt: This way? You push yourself--
Marisha: I want to point us away. So I'm gonna redirect flow and go poof! And push us away from the lodestone, in the direction of everyone else.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: This way. How many feet of movement?
Laura: Oh my god, can you get the water away from the kraken and maybe it'll just be on, like, landlocked?
Marisha: I can redirect the current of the ocean for a temporary amount of time.
Laura: Right, right.
Matt: Okay, so you and Vax both?
Marisha: All of us, just, me and the kraken, and I guess everyone who's still grappled by him are going this way.
Matt: Okay, keeping Vax away.
Marisha: Vax and Vex are probably still away.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I'm going (sound effects)
Matt: Okay, so I want you to roll a d20 and add your wisdom modifier.
Marisha: Roll a d20 and add my wisdom modifier?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: I've got advantage on that, right?
Matt: No.
Marisha: Because of Heroes' Feast?
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: It's your wisdom modifier. It's a wisdom check, not a wisdom saving throw.
Laura: Not a wisdom save.
Liam: Not a wisdom save.
Marisha: Ooh! That's good! That's a 17!
Laura: (laughs) That was, like, such a grandma reaction. "Ooh!"
Marisha: Plus 11, eight, 28! Ooh!
Matt: The strength of your control water does actually--
Marisha: 28!
Matt: -- is stronger than the kraken's current ability to hold itself in place, so yes--
Marisha: Fuck yeah it is!
Matt: The kraken gets pushed this way about 20 feet.
Sam: Does it lose its grip on us?
Matt: You guys get dragged around by 20 feet.
Marisha: Did he lose his grip, come on!
Matt: And you get dragged along with it 20 feet.
Marisha: Wait, who? Me?
Liam: You.
Laura: You.
Matt: Yeah, it pulls you--
Marisha: Not Vex and Vax?
Laura: No.
Matt: Not Vex and Vax. Just you.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: You forced the kraken this way. So yes.
Travis: Nice.
Matt: Maintaining concentration, your Locate Object fails, but you're still controlling, and you push the kraken, and the rest of the allies that are grappled, along with it.
Marisha: Get the lodestone!
Laura: Right.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Were we supposed to get something?
Matt: That finishes Keyleth's turn. We're at the top of this here. So, let's see.
Marisha: Bathroom, I'll be back.
Taliesin: Yep.
Liam: Same.
Taliesin: Here to help.
Laura: Ah!
Sam: (sings) That's me in the kraken...
Matt: As the water begins to force the kraken this way, with it being pulled and dragged across part of the rock nearby, and seeing everyone pushed in that direction, it turns and tilts sideways, and as it does, it pulses with muscles, and releases this giant cloud of ink--
Travis: Yes!
Matt: -- that swallows this vicinity 60 feet in the area. The entire surrounding vicinity of the battlefield, all of a sudden, is now heavily obscured by black ink.
Travis: Awesome.
Laura: I bet it looks really cool with the daylight passing through it, though, huh?
Matt: It doesn't-- it encompasses the area and blocks out the daylight.
Taliesin: It's like watching creamer in coffee in reverse.
Matt: Kind of, yeah. Like the ancient in Neverending Story.
Taliesin: (sings)
Laura: Awesome.
Matt: Basically, yeah.
Laura: "I can't, I have to keep my feet on the ground!"
Matt: Vex, it's your turn.
Laura: That's me.
Sam: Now that Vax and Keyleth are gone, do you guys hear the faint flapping of wings and moaning?
Laura: Oh, creepy. Really creepy. I am going to-- Matt's like.
Taliesin: God damn it.
Laura: -- swim up and over towards my brother.
Taliesin: Thank you for that.
Laura: Towards where she was pointing the lodestone.
Matt: That's one movement there.
Sam: Lodestone!
Laura: That's with the altered self?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Just like her.
Laura: I'm gonna have Trinket-- wow, okay.
Matt: You just move out of range of the kraken, but it does not see you because of your hide check earlier, so it does not get an attack of opportunity.
Laura: Awesome. I'm gonna have Trinket, for my bonus action, swim up on top of the kraken's back.
Matt: All right. We'll say Trinket's right there.
Laura: And try to claw through, because he saw Grog get swallowed.
Matt: Okay. There is Trinket, currently grappling onto him.
Laura: He's just claws, like, thinking he's going to get to the belly. He's going to attack him with a claw attack.
Matt: Okay, so make your claw attack against him.
Travis: Does it have to be at disadvantage?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Damn it, that was a good one.
Matt: I mean, all attacks are at disadvantage underwater.
Laura: Oh!
Taliesin: It's good. Nothing bad happened.
Laura: 25.
Matt: Okay. 25? That does hit. Go ahead and roll damage for cr-- for Trinket.
Laura: For creamer! Did you say creamer?
Matt: I was thinking "Crinket".
Laura: Oh, okay.
Matt: Different creature. That was with disadvantage, right?
Laura: Yes.
Travis: Yes.
Travis: 18 and a 16.
Matt: Nice.
Laura: Five plus eight is...
Travis: 13.
Laura: 13!
Taliesin: If only we'd brought your robot.
Matt: 13 points of slashing damage, as Trinket just rakes into the side of the kraken, cutting four distinct lines through the side of its armored crustacean exterior.
Travis: It does have that armored out like a lobster? It's not soft and rubbery like an octopus?
Matt: No, no, there are parts of-- the underside is, but a lot of it has this crustacean-like armor on the outside.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: All right.
Laura: And I guess I still have an action, because I can't get close enough to search for the lodestone?
Matt: Correct.
Laura: So I'm gonna try the thing that I saw very noisy Keyleth try earlier, which is to shoot out Grasping Vine and try to break someone free with it.
Matt: Grasping Vine is a bonus action spell.
Laura: Grasping Vine-- oh.
Marisha: Not concentration, bonus action spell.
Matt: Yeah, but she already used her bonus action to let Trinket attack.
Marisha: That sucks.
Laura: Oh. Okay! Then I'm gonna cast Conjure Animals and I'm gonna try to cast-- that's third level. I get summoned fey creatures, so what's a fey creature that swims underwater?
Matt: I don't know, what's a fey creature that swims underwater?
Marisha: You know, things that the Player's Handbook does not tell you. I just want to point that out.
Sam: I will say this, I know this for a fact, that it says in the Player's Handbook, the Dungeon Master will help you select a fey creature. (all yell)
Matt: You realize this doesn't help you...
Taliesin: Player's Handbook says a lot of things, doesn't it?
Liam: You just got chat roomed.
Marisha: Conjure Woodland Beings, it says right here--
Sam: Does it say it?
Marisha: Hang on.
Matt: To what CR, does the spell say?
Laura: To what?
Marisha: The DM has creature statistics.
Liam: CR.
Laura: Oh, CR.
Sam: Okay, it says the DM has creature statistics.
Matt: Great.
Taliesin: Do you have creature statistics, DM?
Matt: Let me pick one out for you.
Laura: I have my card, wait--
Taliesin: We're gonna get little fey minnows.
Marisha: Roll initiative for the summoned creatures as a group.
Liam: Edge-of-your-seat action from Critical Role.
Sam: Who can look up the stats first?
Matt: A fey creature...
Taliesin: Full-contact stats.
Matt: There are a lot of fey creatures in the Monster Manual, Wizards of the Coast. Just want to point that out.
Marisha: You know, I will say, it's a little bullshit.
Taliesin: There's shade being thrown in every direction tonight, isn't there?
Marisha: It's a little bullshit.
Laura: What is a rating one? Is that super lame?
Sam: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah. Yeah.
Laura: Rating two is still super lame?
Marisha: Well, okay, so us as killer whales, we're challenge rating three. Except none of us are killer whales.
Matt: Okay, so you're conjuring a fey creature of challenge rating--
Laura: Two.
Matt: Two. One creature.
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Of two or lower. Okay. So.
Travis: You make Sebastian the crab.
Marisha: You get one fey creature--
Matt: I fucking hate Summoning spells so much, they are the bane of my existence.
Laura: I'm sorry!
Matt: Oh, it's okay.
Marisha: They're friendly, they roll initiative--
Matt: Because they're not in the beast section.
Taliesin: They sing like Disney characters.
Marisha: And they sing like Disney characters.
Taliesin: They braid your hair for a bonus action.
Marisha: Basically, Tangled. But not.
Laura: I'm sorry, Matthew!
Matt: It's fine, it's cool.
Laura: I'm sorry!
Matt: I remember all this. It's gonna be great.
Taliesin: Have we finally broken Mercer?
Marisha: You know, but like for real, they never tell you the best creatures.
Laura: It can be-- you know what? It can be an animal. I'm conjuring an animal. I can conjure an animal. I'm gonna conjure a shark. I've seen a shark.
Matt: Fey creature.
Laura: Why does it have to be a fey creature? I'm conjuring an animal.
Taliesin: Wait, I can do this.
Marisha: You know, that's a good point.
Matt: You know what? I'll let you. Sure.
Sam: Sea hag!
Marisha: (gasps) Is that a thing?
Laura: It's considered fey.
Sam: Sea hag is a fey. Two challenge.
Marisha: Thank you, Google.
Sam: Sea hag!
Laura: It says, 'Each beast is considered fey.'
Matt: Oh, I see.
Laura: You can summon fey spirits that take the form of beasts.
Marisha: And you can get a hunter shark--
Matt: You are right.
Marisha: -- which is a challenge rating of two.
Laura: Okay. I cast a shark.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Hunter Shark!
Matt: Where do you want it to appear?
Taliesin: It's a hunter shark, but it's fey because it's dyed its hair with a pastel pattern.
Laura: Right around the kraken. I want it swimming around the kraken to distract it.
Matt: All right, we'll say it's right there. You get a shark now at the kraken.
Marisha: And a hunter shark has blood frenzy, which means the shark has advantage on melee attack rolls against any creature that does not have all of its hit points.
Laura: And it's gonna attack him.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: And get eaten.
Matt: I'm glad we worked this out.
Marisha: We're those assholes right now. I just wanna point that out.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and make your attack on it.
Liam: For 80-something episodes, yeah.
Matt: Bite attack. Plus six, with advantage.
Laura: Roll what?
Matt: It has advantage, because it's been damaged. Plus six.
Laura: 11.
Matt: It bites-- a battle of futility against the armored exterior of the kraken.
Laura: It's more for distraction purpose anyway.
Taliesin: Caramel. Caramel. Ow.
Sam: Totally working.
Laura: It will be, if it uses up a fucking tentacle.
Sam: Yeah, no, it's great.
Taliesin: Yeah, no, we're in.
Travis: Yeah, he is so ready to use a tentacle on the hunter shark.
Laura: Hey.
Matt: All right. End of your turn. It's gonna go ahead and use another one of its points to do a-- let's see.
Taliesin: This is how he's been plotting our death.
Matt: Yeah, it's gonna go ahead and make a tentacle attack against Trinket, who's biting at it currently. That is a 23 to hit.
Laura: That hits.
Matt: All right. Trinket takes--
Laura: How close am I? How close am I? How close am I?
Matt: 20 points of bludgeoning damage.
Laura: Halved. Because of his armor.
Matt: Because of his armor. And Trinket is grappled, currently.
Travis: Jeez.
Laura: Everybody's grappled!
Travis: (sings) Everybody was grappled underwater! We're all... fucked enchiladas.
Matt: All right, as that's the end of your turn, Percival, what are you doing?
Taliesin: You know, I'm not having any luck getting out of this thing. Ah, god. And I get the distinct impression that the whole point of this creature is there's just no escaping it. I'm gonna start trying to cut my way out of this thing. I give up. I'm cutting my way out.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Just so long as we don't kill it.
Taliesin: No.
Matt: What are you using to attack?
Marisha: Just don't kill it.
Taliesin: I'm gonna use my longsword.
Matt: All right. So attack with disadvantage.
Taliesin: Attack with disadvantage.
Marisha: Please don't kill it.
Taliesin: I can't, it's just gonna--
Laura: It's just a tentacle, it's not--
Taliesin: Yeah, it's just a tentacle. With the intent to leave. Oh, that's not bad.
Marisha: I'm sorry, I just saw a flash of my future.
Taliesin: 23.
Matt: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage. It is not a dragon.
Taliesin: Okay. I do not have Hex anymore, so that's--
Laura: What if you turned us into animals now? Will that break the grapple?
Marisha: I could, yeah.
Taliesin: 13.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: And another attack.
Matt: All right. Go for it. With disadvantage.
Taliesin: Also 23.
Matt: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: Also 13.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: And again.
Matt: Third attack with your sword, with disadvantage.
Taliesin: 28.
Matt: 28 hits. Roll damage.
Marisha: Did you roll both 16s?
Taliesin: Yes, they're both 16s.
Marisha: You did. They're both 16s.
Taliesin: I know. It's a metaphor. Oh.
Marisha: Oh! That's good.
Taliesin: 15.
Matt: 15. With that, you manage to finally--
Taliesin: Drop it, drop it, drop it!
Matt: -- cut through the tentacle. It tears open, you can see the dark purple blood beginning to cloud around the area, as you feel yourself freed from the tentacle's grasp. That's your action.
Taliesin: I am booking towards the big red--
Matt: This way?
Taliesin: No, the other way. I'm booking that way.
Marisha: Sorry, this thing looks very red to us.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: This thing.
Taliesin: Oh, and it's not red! Oh, that's so weird.
Marisha: It's not red, but on camera it looks very red to us. This thing.
Matt: So you're heading this way?
Taliesin: I'm heading the opposite direction of that fucking nightmare monstrosity.
Matt: This way?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: Okay, you can move five, ten--
Taliesin: I'm gonna get behind that boulder and hide, if possible.
Matt: Here? All right. Okay.
Taliesin: Bonus action to hide, or no?
Matt: Well, it's a bonus action for rogues to hide.
Liam: Rogue shit, yo.
Taliesin: So for my bonus action--
Travis: You just faceplant.
Taliesin: Is Minor Illusion a bonus action or not?
Matt: I'm pretty sure Minor Illusion is an action. Sorry.
Taliesin: I can't remember, I haven't done it in so long. And I'm feeling so useless. Yeah.
Matt: Welcome to fighting a kraken, buddy.
Taliesin: Oh, I'm gonna use-- I have a heal. I'm gonna heal. I'll use my bonus action to heal.
Travis: Selfish.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Taliesin: 1d10 plus 12. Where's a d10? That's not bad. Okay, 18 points. Okay, good, I get 18 points back, yay.
Matt: Okay, there you go. At the end of your turn, Percival, it's gonna use its third and final legendary action to attempt to hit you with a tentacle. That is 21 to hit.
Taliesin: Yeah, that hits.
Matt: All right. You take--
Marisha: You're so grappled again, aren't you?
Matt: -- 26 points of bludgeoning damage, and you are grappled once more. (all groan)
Travis: (cackles)
Taliesin: 26 points of bludgeoning damage?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Fucking meatbag, getting knocked around all the time.
Marisha: You spent your entire action getting away from him.
Taliesin: Yeah, that's fine.
Travis: That's a piece of shit. I love it.
Matt: Does that end your turn?
Laura: Krakens suck.
Matt: All right. Top of the kraken's turn.
Marisha: Fuck this.
Matt: Grog?
Travis: Yes? Yeah.
Matt: The acid from the interior of the kraken begins to--
Laura: Oh god.
Matt: -- begins to slowly pool around you, and you feel your flesh on the exterior begin to singe and burn and melt away.
Liam: Oh jeez.
Matt: That's a lot of dice. I'm going to go ahead and use the app here.
Taliesin: Oh god.
Laura: Oh my god, is it like being in lava?
Travis: I'm sure it ain't great. I'm sure it ain't like being at a fucking spa.
Matt: That is 45 points of acid damage.
Travis: Okay.
Laura: Gulp.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Holy shit.
Travis: Fuck.
Matt: And so, turning around, the kraken's going to make its way back-- oh no, Trinket. Oh no.
Laura: Oh no!
Matt: Trinket is left this way, it's going to swim past to there--
Marisha: Okay, hang on. My Control Water spell has a concentration and I create a current--
Liam: Ooh, buddy, what are you doing?
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: In a direction for several minutes.
Matt: I agree. The kraken has an ability called Freedom of Movement, the kraken ignores difficult terrain, and magical effects can't reduce its speed or cause it to be restrained.
Marisha: Well, that's just great.
Matt: Sorry.
Marisha: That's wonderful.
Laura: What about my shark? Does it get an attack of opportunity?
Matt: Your shark does, yes. As does Trinket, technically.
Travis: This little bastard's high-spirited.
Marisha: Motherfucker.
Liam: The dungeon master is giddy tonight.
Laura: I get advantage, right, on it?
Taliesin: You are annoyingly cheerful.
Matt: From the shark? Yes, you do. Trinket has disadvantage.
Laura: Okay. 16 plus six is 22.
Matt: 22 from the shark. Nice.
Sam: Cast Hunter Shark on it.
Matt: All righty. And disadvantage for Trinket?
Laura: Oh. 14 for Trinket.
Matt: Trinket, unfortunately, his claws strike against the back of its armor as the kraken passes. No effect. All right.
Laura: Do I roll for the damage? Of the shark?
Matt: Yes. Oh, that wasn't the damage. Yeah. That was to hit. So yeah, roll damage for the shark.
Laura: 13.
Matt: 13 points of damage from the shark. Nice. Yeah. All right, so as the shark bites, and watch as it tears away, makes its way over towards the grappled Keyleth, its jaws open with its beaked mouth.
Taliesin: There's no room for anything else in there.
Liam: Hey, don't eat my girlfriend. I just got her.
Matt: That is 24 to hit.
Marisha: Yeah, I mean, yeah.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Does it ever not hit?
Sam: Oh no. Oh no.
Marisha: Am I about to be swallowed with Grog?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: 22 points of piercing damage, and Keyleth, you are swallowed by the kraken.
Laura: (gasps)
Liam: Seven minutes in kraken.
Laura: You can do something from the inside.
Marisha: 22 points, you said?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: Whoever actually succeeded in changing anything from the inside? Let's be honest here.
Laura: Aw.
Taliesin: You become part of it.
Liam: Let's not get--
Sam: Part of the system?
Taliesin: Just know somehow that this is a metaphor.
Marisha: 48 points.
Taliesin: For what?
Travis: Well, now it's a tribute.
Laura: Yeah, this one's crazy.
Taliesin: This is bad.
Liam: Let's shift to the fire realm.
Marisha: Do I see Grog?
Matt: You see nothing. It is black, blind, darkness on the inside, and it's not Darkvision blindness. It is folds of internal muscle, tightening flesh across your entire body, so not only is there no light, but there is no room to actually see anything, even with your Darkvision.
Liam: Fuck.
Travis: (fart noise) I'm here!
Marisha: Can I like-- a free action to be like, Grog, I'm in the kraken! as a free action?
Matt: You scream into it like, Grog!, as you're being devoured, sure.
Marisha: Grog! (gurgling noises)
Taliesin: Ew.
Matt: All right, that ends the kraken's turn, Grog, you're up.
Travis: Right. Can I reach around? Do I feel any dangly bits or something I might be able to yank on?
Marisha: Or like-- hands?
Travis: Or is it smooth? I know I'm like this, but--
Matt: You are unable to really feel around. You're like holding your hammer here, and the whole thing is squeezing against you and the muscles are pulling in, tense.
Travis: There's no way that I could try and push out with my legs to try and pull something out of the bag of holding, is there? It's too tight for that.
Matt: Well, what are you trying to pull out?
Travis: Maybe the alchemy jug?
Matt: You could probably pull the alchemy jug out if you wanted to, yeah.
Travis: I pull out the alchemy jug.
Matt: All right. And you force it out and hold it on the inside.
Travis: And I get super fucking wasted-- No, I'm kidding. (all laugh)
Travis: I look inside of it, and I say, oil.
Matt: Okay. The jug now produces a bunch of oil.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: It gets to fill up the inside of the jug.
Travis: You know, sea creatures like oil.
Laura: Ew. Like, if you swallow cod liver oil, you vomit? Yeah?
Liam: Like castor oil?
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: It greases you up.
Taliesin: Unless you're a cod.
Matt: Or a kraken. All right, so you produce a bunch of oil for your action, inside the jug.
Travis: Yup!
Taliesin: Grease me up!
Matt: Is that your turn?
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: Okay. That brings us to Taryon. Taryon. You just watched Keyleth, the pinnacle of leadership, the guiding force in this whole adventure, get swallowed by this terrible, writhing sea monster.
Sam: It must be part of the plan. You're all seasoned veterans, right? This is all part of the plan, right? (screaming)
Sam: Oh! I've made a horrible mistake! (all laugh)
Sam: Caligo, take me away! Oh my God.
Matt: What are you doing, Taryon?
Sam: Well, I saw Percy cut his way out of the tentacle, so I will try to do the same.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: For all the good it did me.
Sam: I can move my hands, right?
Matt: You can, it's just any attacks are at disadvantage, and you can't move.
Sam: Okay. Then I will reach into my magic bag and pull out a vial of acid, and slam it on the tentacle and see if I can burn through the tentacle.
Matt: Okay! Go ahead and make a-- This would technically be-- a melee or ranged, but we'll say because it's so close, roll a D20 twice with disadvantage, so.
Sam: Oof. Oof!
Taliesin: What. What. What.
Sam: Terrible.
Matt: So, with your attack bonus for the attack.
Sam: Yeah. 12.
Taliesin: Did you just grease? Did you just grease that with tears?
Matt: Twelve? You reach out to pull it out and throw it. It tenses once, and then-- And it just-- It floats away.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: Before it just slowly sinks into the sand and rests there.
Taliesin: Clink.
Sam: Damn it.
Laura: At least it's still retrievable.
Sam: Sure. Yeah. Yeah. That's good. And then as my bonus action, I will say to Percy, Percival, take this down! I, Taryon Darrington, being of sound mind and body, hereby do not leave my belongings to anyone, but prefer to be buried with them. (all laugh)
Taliesin: I'm going to gaze at him, as a professional gazer. I'm going to gaze at Taryon. And just allow my head wound to just bleed out.
Matt: You channel Brazio, and stare at him, to give him disapproval. With, wordless. Okay.
Liam: Sweet.
Taliesin: I hate you. And you.
Matt: That ends your turn, Taryon. That ends your turn, I believe. All right, Vax, you're up.
Liam: All right. I have just gone--
Marisha: Lodestone! Lodestone!
Liam: I have just gone whiter-- My face has gone whiter than it has since I became a paladin of the fucking Raven Queen, seeing Keyleth just get swallowed up, but I am going to trust that Grog and she are going to get themselves out of there, and I am going to look to where Keyleth pointed, and try to see a lump or something, in the sand.
Matt: Okay, make an investigation check.
Liam: Okay, I made a-- hold on, 18.
Matt: 18? 18. Okay. You just get to this part of the sand and you start sifting through and it's causing this cloud and you hear the water just being rapidly whipped through and cut behind you from the rapidly moving tentacles. As you pull through, you just begin with your action to uncover what looks to be the very peeking top of the final lodestone.
Liam: Is that one action? Because I have an action and a bonus action, so I'll just do as much as I fucking can to dig this fucker out.
Matt: Bonus action is a weapon attack. So you manage to--
Liam: I'm hasted. The hasted action is only a weapon attack?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: Okay. Fucking hell.
Marisha: Dig. Dig. Dig, dig, dig.
Travis: Hey, man, you're making progress.
Liam: I can't do anything, I can't do anything.
Travis: You're A1 sauce right now brother, you're doing all the good things.
Marisha: You're so good, you're so good.
Laura: Can you use a bonus to help anyone?
Liam: No, I mean I'm on concentration for Bless and they're both in there and they probably fucking need it.
Marisha: No, you're great, you're great.
Taliesin: Throw a knife.
Marisha: You're hot. You're great. You're good. You're warm. You're finding that stone.
Liam: I'm done. I'm done.
Matt: All right, that ends your turn. Then it's going to use a legendary action to attempt to hit you with a tentacle. That is a 28 to hit. All right.
Liam: Oh shit, 22. No. Hits me.
Matt: Yep. That is--
Liam: Oh, uh, hold on. Two. What's 28 to hit? Nah, wouldn't hit 28. Never mind. 'Cause I'm blessed but it's not much--
Matt: 28 points of bludgeoning damage. LIAM. Okay. Uncanny Dodge?
Matt: Okay, so reduce that by half, so it's 14 and you are grappled.
Liam: Oh, good.
Matt: As the tentacle wraps around you.
Taliesin: Does it have a limited number of tentacles?
Matt: Currently now nine.
Laura: Nine tentacles?
Marisha: More than us.
Travis: It had ten.
Matt: It had ten, now it has nine.
Marisha: More than us.
Taliesin: But if we keep playing it may have eight, then seven, then six.
Matt: That might possibly be an option.
Laura: Or it might just swallow all of us.
Marisha: More than us.
Laura: And then we just Planeshift from the inside of the kraken, and everything's okey-dokey.
Marisha: Which, I have Planeshift if all goes terribly wrong.
Laura: But we all have to be holding hands.
Marisha: That's true.
Travis: Ha, just you and me live. (all laugh)
Taliesin: The Grog and Keyleth show? I would watch that.
Matt: All right, so. That's Vax's turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Grog!
Travis: What, jesus, I'm right fucking here. Yes, it sucks.
Marisha: Grog! And I reach out. He's saying. Do I feel him?
Matt: We'll say that you're just, as the muscles squeeze you deeper in its body, you kind of slam into what feels like a hard bottom of a boot.
Marisha: I still have Control Water. As a concentration.
Matt: Make a constitution saving throw as you were damaged by the piercing maw.
Marisha: Yep, you're not wrong.
Matt: Which is, we'll say 24, so go ahead and-- can't remember what the number was but we'll go with that.
Marisha: Come on. Concentration?
Matt: Which you have advantage on because of your Warcasters.
Marisha: Which I have advantage, oh, I'm a Warcaster! That's 16. No, I'll take the 16. What?
Matt: Constitution saving throw.
Marisha: Okay. 22!
Matt: Okay, so you maintain concentration.
Marisha: Okay. And I find Grog.
Matt: You do.
Marisha: And I Control Water.
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Is it watery in this?
Matt: No, it is muscles tensing, and a thin layer of acid.
Travis: And oil.
Matt: And oil is inside the jug.
Taliesin: You didn't pour it.
Travis: Oh! Is it not just floating amniotic, like water, in this esophagi?
Laura: No, that's what he just said, there's no water.
Matt: Currently you're in the stomach, not the esophagus.
Travis: Anatomy.
Marisha: No water, though? I can't like jettison myself out of this guy's mouth? All right.
Matt: You can spend your action to try?
Marisha: Okay. No. That's fine.
Taliesin: There's options.
Matt: There's not a lot of water in this space. Right now, it's mostly like actual stomach acid of the creature and muscles that are tensing around.
Marisha: Okay. We have oil. Right?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: I tell Grog, I say, Hold on, and I cast a Fireball right in front of us, to try and jettison ourselves out with my Spire.
Travis: I'm a big fan of this.
Marisha: With my Spire of Conflux I go (explosion) and try and give this motherfucker the worst heartburn he's ever experienced.
Travis: Yeah get your Zantac 75 now, bitch.
Matt: Okay!
Taliesin: You put that kraken on Hot Pepper Gaming.
Matt: I need you both to make dexterity saving throws with disadvantage.
Laura: He's going to shoot out some watery lodestones.
Travis: I'm at advantage, though, so I just roll one.
Taliesin: Lode liquid.
Matt: Yes. Okay.
Liam: Jackpot. Dex save at disadvantage.
Travis: 11. Oh wait, man, wait, blessed.
Marisha: I'm making a dex save?
Matt: At disadvantage.
Marisha: At disadvantage.
Travis: 13.
Marisha: At disadvantage? That was eight. Plus dex, which is five, so that's--
Laura: Plus bless!
Marisha: Plus blessed!
Taliesin: Hashtag.
Marisha: #blessed. Ooh, that's good, that's good. That's 13, so that's 18!
Matt: What's the DC on the spell for your staff?
Marisha: It doesn't say.
Matt: So it'd be your spell DC.
Marisha: Which is 20. If I'm fully equipped.
Matt: Yeah, so you do not make your save. Your spell's too powerful. So you go ahead and roll damage.
Marisha: On myself.
Laura: Oh!
Travis: Oh, like a, 13.
Matt: Yep. So go ahead and roll 8d6 damage, to you, you and the kraken. Usually if a creature's fully submerged in water it has damage resistance because of the water around it. However, the spell is inside of it so I will say that it does not get the fire resistance.
Travis: I do have fire resistance, so I'm okay. I'm excited about this.
Matt: You take half damage.
Laura: Oh my gosh.
Marisha: I will be exceedingly angry if I have to--
Taliesin: We will save the kraken.
Laura: If you knock yourself unconscious with your own fireball?
Marisha: I don't care about that, I care more about the kraken at this point. This is my life's work. Literally Keyleth's life work.
Taliesin: Oh wow, a lot happened there.
Marisha: Okay, five, six, seven, eight, nine, plus four, which is 13, plus another six which is 16, 19, and a six which is 25.
Travis: 25.
Matt: 25, was what you needed to force it to make a constitution saving throw.
Travis: 25 exactly? Wow.
Laura: Wow.
Matt: Well, based on the circumstances I halved the damage required for it to make the saving throw to regurgitate. However a fireball explosion based on the--
Marisha: Three, four, five, six, seven, eight. I'm sorry. You said 8d6?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: It's actually 29 points.
Matt: All right. So--
Marisha: Please don't kill this thing.
Matt: No. As the Fireball explodes, the oil that you created inside ignites and also detonates.
Taliesin: Yes!
Travis: Alchemy jug!
Matt: Roll a d20 for the strength of the jug.
Laura: No! It could kill the jug!
Marisha: Who? Him? No, Grog!
Laura: That's good.
Travis: 15.
Matt: Okay. The jug withstands the force of the blow. (all cheer)
Taliesin: Good jug.
Matt: The jug, however, detonates.
Taliesin: Yeah! I love everything that's happening.
Sam: That's gonna be extra damage to you, Groggy-pants.
Matt: For an additional 18 points of fire damage to both of you.
Liam: Kraken's gonna get burning squirts.
Laura: Oh shit.
Taliesin: And the kraken.
Travis: To half because I have fire resistance.
Matt: And the kraken.
Marisha: 18 points, that I can deal with.
Sam: Plus 25.
Marisha: Wait, plus 25?
Matt: This is on top of what you did.
Travis: So 39.
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: So 25 plus 18 which is what--
Sam: 43.
Matt: That would be 43.
Marisha: 43 points of damage!
Taliesin: You're alive!
Travis: 22 to me, because, resistance.
Marisha: I am alive.
Matt: Fucking rolled a natural one!
Travis: Did you? (all yell)
Matt: I'm not even joking. On its constitution, it's a DC 25 constitution saving throw, even with +15, it's a natural one. And so (explosion) it bursts inside, you watch the eyes bulge on the outside of this kraken as suddenly it vomits out a burst of smoke, dark, kind of bloody water, acid, and both Keyleth and Grog are jettisoned out of the front of the kraken's mouth.
Taliesin: What are the chances it dropped any of us while this happened?
Matt: Nothing.
Taliesin: Nothing.
Sam: Yeah.
Marisha: But Grog and I are out?
Liam: But, everyone on the outside just goes--
Taliesin: Kinda what I was expecting, to be magnificently frank.
Sam: I see him vomit, and I'm like, you and me both, buddy. (all laugh)
Marisha: Do I still have a bonus action?
Matt: You would, yes.
Marisha: I'm going to cast Healing Word on myself.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: At second level. Sorry.
Matt: Go for it.
Marisha: That's two. Because I'm hurting.
Matt: Remember, you still have your Wild Shape forms too.
Marisha: Oh, I know.
Matt: Okay, that ends your turn, Keyleth.
Marisha: Four, five, plus-- six. Yep, that ends my turn.
Matt: All right. Secondary legendary action to go ahead and as soon as you guys emerge, one of its tentacles wraps out in your direction, Keyleth. That's a-- plus 18, yeah that hits you for like 32. So as soon as you emerge, you look around, one of the tentacles wraps around you, and you take 19 points of bludgeoning damage.
Taliesin: Oh, god.
Matt: And you are grappled by the tentacle.
Marisha: So glad I healed myself.
Laura: Mother fuck.
Marisha: 19 points.
Sam: What are you down to?
Marisha: Seven points.
Matt: All right. That brings us to the next lair action.
Taliesin: God damn it.
Matt: Everything is still obscured in this black inky space, by the way. Oh, you guys missed that while you were away. The kraken did an ink jet and filled this entire 60-foot radius with ink. The whole area is drastically obscured.
Marisha: Even though there's my Control Water current going outward? Which lasts for ten minutes!
Matt: Well, lasts for ten minutes while you're concentrating, did you maintain concentration--
Marisha: I haven't broke concentration--
Matt: That's true--
Marisha: I saved for it.
Matt: Well, save right now.
Marisha: I already saved for it while I was inside of him. I can save again.
Matt: Right, but you just took damage from the--
Taliesin: From the tentacles.
Matt: From the tentacles. However, you are correct, the water jet did clear out the ink from this area.
Marisha: It's not terrible. My wisdom-- 19.
Matt: Not wisdom, plus your constitution.
Marisha: Not as good.
Liam: Bless!
Marisha: Plus bless, which is good. Wait, what was that?
Taliesin: Three.
Marisha: That was three, thank you, three. Sorry, constitution.
Sam: Constitution.
Marisha: 16! 16!
Matt: Okay, that's enough, you maintain concentration. So yeah, so you've now cleared out this section, this section is cleared of ink. Control Water, the stream you've been doing has cleared out this area, so yeah.
Marisha: Jeez, guys.
Laura: Slowest math.
Marisha: Gil. Gil bought us kraken.
Matt: All right, so--
Marisha: Blame Gil.
Liam: Kraken for kraken.
Marisha: Don't fuck me, Gil!
Matt: All right at this point, as it is now the 20 count on the lair action, the kraken once again gives another pulse of electrical energy, everything in the area, I need everyone to go ahead and make a constitution saving throw.
Sam: 25!
Matt: All right, five points of lightning damage.
Marisha: Player-killer, not great.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: 18? You take ten points of lightning damage. Keyleth?
Marisha: Seven.
Matt: Ten points of lightning damage.
Taliesin: And she's out!
Marisha: I'm unconscious.
Liam: 19, Deathwalker's Ward
Matt: So five points of lightning damage.
Marisha: Keyleth is unconscious.
Taliesin: Just barely.
Laura: 16 for me.
Matt: Ten points of lightning damage. Grog?
Laura: And 14 for Trinket, so--
Travis: It's a 15, but I have resistance, so--
Matt: So five points of lightning damage. And Trinket was what?
Laura: He is ten points.
Matt: Ten points, okay, so. Keyleth goes unconscious, you watch as she just gets jettisoned out and the lightning streaks through her and eyes darken and she kinda falls limp in the water as the tentacle begins to slowly draw her back to its maw.
Laura: Fuck.
Taliesin: God damn it.
Matt: Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. I'm gonna keep moving towards the lodestone and my brother.
Laura: I see where it came out, right?
Matt: That's as close as you get right here in this position.
Laura: So can I use my-- can I get it out of the water and put in my bag of colding?
Matt: You spend your action to free it and you get it out of the water and put it into the bag of holding.
Marisha: That's all three, right?
Matt: So you have a bag of holding?
Laura: I have a bag of colding.
Matt: Colding? Okay, yeah, you can put it there. It has enough space.
Marisha: Three?
Taliesin: We've got all three.
Marisha: We have all three?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: You have all three lodestones currently.
Laura: Okay--
Liam: Is Keyleth--
Laura: We're all going to die, but we have three lodestones doing it.
Liam: Is Keyleth still grappled while unconscious?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: Correct.
Liam: Shit.
Laura: And I guess for-- god. For my bonus action, can I-- I don't know what to do. I'm going to have-- while I'm thinking about this, I'm going to have the shark attack him.
Sam: 'Cause it's shark week.
Matt: Okay, shark moves here.
Taliesin: Bite the tentacles.
Laura: The shark's gonna bite the tentacle that's holding onto-- who's that right in front of him, Percy?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: No.
Travis: In front?
Matt: Right there this is Percy. This is Taryon.
Laura: He's going to swim towards Percy.
Sam: Wait, friendly shark! (all laugh)
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And bite the tentacle to help free Percy. And he gets advantage?
Matt: Correct.
Travis: Awesome.
Sam: Oh, shark ally!
Laura: 15? Is that enough?
Matt: 15. Unfortunately, it's just gnawing at it, but it's not quite breaking through, it's tough hide.
Laura: Okay. I look at my brother and say, can you get out of this?
Liam: Yeah, yeah, I'm fine.
Laura: Okay. I swim back and use my bonus action to try to hide.
Matt: All right. So you swim backward this way?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: How far? Which direction?
Laura: Towards the rock, towards the--
Matt: Towards the rock here?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: That's about as far as you can get, unfortunately.
Laura: Well, I try to hide--
Matt: You have Alter Self on you right? You cast it--
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: So you can make it. We'll say that's as far as you can get, no reason to hide, you're still out in the open, you don't have anything to hide behind, unfortunately.
Laura: Can I sit on the ground? I wanna sit on the ground and wrap my cloak around me and make myself look like a rock.
Matt: Actually, you do back up into the ink cloud, so you can.
Laura: Hey!
Matt: Which is not obscured to the kraken. So, you cannot hide. He can still see you in the ink cloud.
Laura: Oh really?
Matt: Yeah, so--
Marisha: Also did my Control Water--
Matt: It didn't-- this whole area is filled with ink, so you just cleared out this area here.
Laura: Well then, if I can't hide from him, can I use my bonus action to do something else?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: Then I'm going to have Trinket attack him.
Matt: All right. Trinket on your turn moves up to the back of it--
Laura: He'll attack the tentacle that's holding Tary.
Sam: Oh, friendly bear?
Matt: (bear noises)
Laura: Oh, Trinket-- Trinket's grappled!
Matt: Oh, Trinket can't move, you're right!
Laura: Trinket's going to attack the tentacle that's holding him.
Matt: Yeah, Trinket can't move, right.
Sam: Never mind, friendly bear. (all laugh)
Laura: Oh two 19s, and that's a critical for Trinket!
Liam: Yeah!
Marisha: Yeah Trinket!
Taliesin: (sing victory fanfare from Final Fantasy)
Marisha: (sing victory fanfare from Final Fantasy)
Taliesin: Aren't you unconscious?
Marisha: You know, they get it.
Laura: That's ten!
Matt: Ten points of damage. Trinket just tears with his jaws into the side. (growls)
Laura: Did he get out?
Matt: No, he did not, I'm sorry.
Laura: Damn it.
Matt: That ends your go, Vex. At the end of your turn, it's going to use its third and final legendary action to go ahead and attempt-- let's see--
Taliesin: Fuck, man.
Matt: It's going to attempt to make a bash attack against Percival and Vax. Which pushes you two together. There's no way to escape it, you just whack! Slams you both together. And you take--
Liam: (groans of pain)
Taliesin: (groans of pain)
Matt: You take 13 points of bludgeoning damage, both of you.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: All righty, that ends that. Percival, you're up.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm going to--
Liam: Don't do that, Marisha.
Taliesin: Hm? I know, she's making us feel really guilty right now. I'm going to hack away at this thing right now, so I'm going to try and hack away at this tentacle to get out.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Disadvantage, correct?
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: God, I'm really not enjoying this. That's a 17.
Matt: 17 does not hit. The first one you can't quite get your arms free, and you swing-- you just barely-- carves like a centimeter into the creature's flesh.
Taliesin: 19?
Matt: 19 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: I know that natural 20 is just going to waste.
Marisha: It's so close, I know. That's good, though.
Taliesin: 13.
Marisha: Yeah?
Matt: 13 points of damage.
Taliesin: And I'll take another one, that's not going to roll well, here we go. My third hit is 16.
Matt: 16 does not hit, unfortunately.
Taliesin: So I'm going to burn my Action Surge and I'm going to take the Alter Self. That coin you gave me is--
Matt: Takes an action to do so.
Taliesin: What does it give me, just full movement?
Sam: Gills and full movement.
Marisha: It allows you to alter yourself based on what you chose, which is give you gills and fins--
Matt: Yeah, in this circumstance the best bet you want to have is gills and fins. So you can swim.
Marisha: Within moderation.
Taliesin: Yeah, so I burn my Action Surge for that.
Matt: Okay, so your Alter Self is in.
Taliesin: I'm going to go find my healing potions to find out what I have, but I'm going to do that-- yep, moving right along.
Matt: That ends your turn, Percy?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: That brings us to the kraken. Legendary actions return.
Taliesin: Fuck.
Matt: Kraken is going to shift around up and over there. So we'll say for the purposes of this--
Taliesin: We really need to leave badly.
Sam: Does the shark get an attack?
Laura: Is the kraken an animal?
Matt: Not quite.
Taliesin: No?
Liam: Monstrosity.
Matt: Going to curl over the top there, Trinket does get an attack of opportunity.
Travis: Does Grog?
Matt: No because it just moves into the space between you and Keyleth.
Sam: Laura, attack!
Taliesin: Does the shark?
Sam: Laura! Trinket!
Matt: The shark does not--
Travis: He's grappled. Trinket's grappled.
Sam: Yeah, but can still attack.
Matt: Yeah, 'cause the shark was attacking Percy's tentacle, so it was not in reach to attack the creature.
Laura: Was Trinket within range for a (chomps).
Matt: Trinket was not. He already moved before, 'cause Trinket was grappled before he could get into space with it. All right, it is going to use its Lightning Storm. So I need four bolts of lightning. That's going to be against-- That's going to be Vex, Taryon, Percival, and we'll say Vax. Dexterity saving throws, you guys.
Sam: You said something earlier about dexterity saving throws?
Matt: At disadvantage.
Taliesin: At disadvantage?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Only if you're grappled.
Matt: If you're grappled.
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Five.
Taliesin: 15.
Liam: 16.
Laura: 29.
Matt: So, hold on, was that five?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: 25 points lightning damage. Percival?
Taliesin: 15.
Matt: 15? 25 points of lightning damage.
Liam: 16 and Deathwalker's Ward.
Matt: So 25 reduced to half. 13 points of damage.
Laura: 29.
Matt: 29? You take 13 points of lightning damage.
Liam: Oh, and if I fail dex saves it's half damage, so I'm getting quarter damage right now.
Matt: Well, it's Evasion, so if it's half you do nothing.
Liam: If I succeed, it's nothing. If I fail--
Laura: But you're grappled.
Liam: I failed, it's halved.
Matt: You failed, so it's halved, so yeah, you take a quarter.
Liam: Plus the Deathwalker's, so down and down.
Matt: Right, I got confused, so yes. So half that as well. All right, that ends the kraken's turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Ha! Ha! Am I near Keyleth?
Matt: You are right next to Keyleth.
Travis: Great! I'm going to use my action to shove a greater healing potion in your stupid unconscious mouth. (all laugh)
Matt: All right, so that is 4d4 plus four.
Travis: I roll that?
Laura: You want some more d4s?
Travis: No.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: 4d4.
Travis: Great.
Laura: Yeah!
Travis: Four, six, eight, 12!
Marisha: Healing points?
Matt: Mm-hm. You get 12.
Liam: That's a number.
Marisha: I get 12.
Matt: Grog, you still have your bonus action. You are frenzied and you have your movement.
Travis: I do! I want to (doop doop doop) like Mario in the water world, and I want to go up on top of the kraken's face, and I want to punch him in his stupid big eyeball with the dwarven thrower.
Matt: Okay, so you come up onto the actual--
Travis: Yep.
Matt: -- kraken, okay.
Liam: Madman, love it.
Matt: So you're right there. Okay, so go ahead and make your attack.
Travis: Reckless!
Matt: So just a single roll.
Travis: Yep. 28.
Matt: 28 hits! Roll damage.
Laura: Eyeball death!
Travis: That's 14, 25. 25!
Matt: 35--
Travis: 25.
Matt: 25 points of damage. You just, whack!, bash it in the side of its face. (growls)
Travis: Eyeball took it pretty well, man, jeez.
Matt: Yep.
Travis: Those eyeballs are hard.
Matt: That ends your turn, Grog?
Travis: It does.
Matt: All right, Taryon.
Sam: I mean, we're just trying to leave at this point.
Laura: Yeah, we're just trying to get away.
Marisha: Yeah, yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah we're running, running.
Sam: So I will once again try my acid trick, and this time try to hit it and pull another bottle out and smash it on the tentacle.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Oh, where'd it go? That's shitty. So I'll use Luck. Oh, better.
Taliesin: Better.
Sam: 20.
Matt: 20 does hit, roll damage.
Sam: It's 7d6, right?
Laura: Whoa.
Sam: 22.
Matt: 22 points of damage. As you slam it and it begins to dissolve it, it is not enough to break free but it is fairly hurt and still holding onto you.
Sam: All right, for my bonus action I just say, oh, friendly shark! (all laugh)
Sam: I could use a bite over here! My animal handling is negative one, by the way. (all laugh)
Matt: Good to know. All right, Taryon, that's your turn. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay, I take Whisper out, and I'm throwing it at the ground ten feet away from you right next to Keyleth on the ground, and bamfing out of its tentacle to it.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and roll attack with disadvantage just to see it doesn't get caught in the water and float away.
Liam: (gurgling noise) 23.
Matt: Yeah, it's just enough strength for you to chuck it and (swoosh) hits the sand right next to her. You are no longer restrained--
Laura: Yeah! Oh, what a clutch fucking vestige.
Matt: You are next to Keyleth.
Liam: Plus Grog is whaling on its head, so I'm going to Sneak Attack the tentacle that's holding Keyleth. Yeah?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: I am whaling on its head.
Sam: Right now, somewhere in the world, Scanlan is eating a like calamari and going-- (all laugh)
Marisha: Gets a little bit of a nosebleed.
Matt: Basically yes.
Marisha: Not sure why.
Sam: Huh, that's weird. Little acidy there.
Laura: Would have been great if Scanlan were here just to like Dominate Creature.
Liam: 34.
Matt: 34.
Marisha: All that inspiration.
Matt: With that, the tentacle holding Keyleth is torn asunder. You, using your dagger to cut her free, and the cloud of blood left behind, and withdraws, she is freed.
Liam: Okay, and I will-- I can't use a bonus action to pull her, right, that's too much, yeah?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah. I will use a bonus action to stand over and in front of her.
Sam: So brave!
Taliesin: Water wings.
Matt: All right, that brings us to Keyleth.
Laura: Don't get swallowed.
Matt: Keyleth, you are freed from the tentacle,and you are conscious, but up above you as you look up into space you can see the giant kraken maybe ten, 15 feet away from you. Grog is slamming in the side of its head and Vax is right there looking over you right now.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm just like a poodle over a pool right now, just doggy paddling instinctually. Do we have the lodestones, do we have all of them?
Taliesin: Yes! Yes!
Laura: Get us out of here!
Liam: While you were out.
Sam: You and your fucking lodestones!
Marisha: And I do Animal Shapes and I turn all of us to-- who's grappled? A lot of us. Right?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah, Trinket, Taryon, and Percy are currently grappled.
Marisha: I'm going to turn us into like little electric eels. Maybe it's because we made that joke earlier, I don't know.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Is that bad? Is that bad?
Matt: No, what do you wanna do?
Marisha: I just want something that is going to swim fast and then we all--
Laura: And we slip out of its grasp.
Marisha: Swim. We slip out of its grasp and swim to the portal. To the portal! And we go.
Matt: Don't have rules for eels.
Sam: There's a water snake in there.
Marisha: There is a water snake, which is kinda what I'm basing this off of.
Matt: We'll use that.
Marisha: The giant constrictor snake--
Laura: (laughs) He loves looking up animals.
Marisha: Has blindsight-- ugh.
Sam: They can swim really fast, and I know because I tried to turn into one when we were in the dragon. They have like a 40 swimming speed or something.
Matt: Saying a giant constrictor snake has a swim speed of 30 feet, that's the same speed as--
Marisha: Normal?
Taliesin: Normal?
Laura: I don't wanna be a giant constrictor snake. We wanna be teeny ones, or little ones.
Taliesin: No, it would be a normal, or like a swimming creature, though, what's the speed of a swimming creature?
Matt: Make your choice, Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay, okay, okay.
Matt: Most snakes are 30-foot swim speed.
Marisha: Most are and hunter sharks are 40-foot swim speed, killer whales are 60-foot swim speed--
Laura: So make us killer whales.
Marisha: But they're bigger motherfuckers, so can we do a giant eel that's got a swim speed of 40 feet?
Sam: Young sea serpent that can swim 60 feet?
Laura: Yeah, that!
Marisha: Ooh I wanna be that!
Taliesin: Thea Therpent.
Matt: Sea Serpent.
Sam: I don't know what that is.
Taliesin: (lisp) Help me, Cecil, help!
Sam: Oh no, that's huge, that's a huge monstrosity, she can't do that.
Matt: Monstrosity you can't do.
Sam: Can't do that, no.
Matt: What are you doing?
Liam: Killer whale, man, killer whale.
Marisha: Look, I'm bound by what the Player's Handbook gave me! So--
Taliesin: Let's go whale.
Marisha: So I'll go--
Matt: These are creatures you would know.
Marisha: Ah, fuck, whales are fucking big, though!
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Whales are big.
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: So I'll be eels with a swim speed of 40 feet? So we can slip out?
Matt: What creature are you choosing is my question.
Marisha: Well, that's going off of a snake speed.
Matt: Snake-- I'm sorry, you need to pick a creature, you can't make up statistics here. Let's see here. So.
Laura: What are you reading, what are you reading, Marisha?
Taliesin: The giant snake is a land snake is the problem.
Marisha: It's a land snake.
Taliesin: Let's be whales.
Liam: Be whales, get the fuck out of here.
Laura: It still can hold us.
Marisha: Okay, but whales are 60 feet, sharks are 40 feet. That's our problem.
Matt: Most snakes I'm seeing here have 30 feet swim speed.
Laura: Then I think snake is probably better to wiggle out, that's the thing.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: He's going to be able to hold whales maybe.
Liam: Okay.
Laura: I don't know. I don't know! I don't know.
Marisha: We'd be slow to be snakes, but more possibly--
Travis: It's your Aramente. It's your Aramente.
Taliesin: It's your Aramente.
Laura: It's your Aramente.
Matt: What are you doing, as you're casting your spell. It's your Aramente. What are you choosing? What form?
Marisha: (yells) We're going to be eels! That's what I said at first!
Liam: Eels, we're eels.
Marisha: Swim, 30 foot!
Liam: Eels.
Matt: Okay, eels, we're using the statistics for a snake.
Marisha: I wanna use a statistic for a snake, but swim speed, fuck! I'm trying to be elusive here!
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Fuck.
Matt: I-- whatever. Fine.
Sam: We'll do it live!
Taliesin: We'll do it live!
Matt: You are all water snakes. You're majestic, ten-hit-point forms as water snakes. You all suddenly transform--
Taliesin: Mine has glasses.
Matt: -- into these tiny snakes.
Marisha: Go, go, go, go.
Matt: We'll say for the current purposes of this, until it comes to the kraken's turn, everyone who is currently grappled is not grappled, because you are a smaller form. Until the kraken's turn.
Sam: Ooh.
Marisha: Oh, god.
Matt: So we'll have to see whose turn order is what.
Laura: And we all just book it.
Matt: All right, so--
Marisha: Double movement.
Matt: That brings us next to the initiative counter 20. So. I need all of you guys, as snakes, to make constitution saving throws.
Laura: We're all just gonna bamf back to-- but at least, hey, we're ungrappled.
Sam: Matt. We're eels.
Marisha: I don't know what that did.
Matt: I know.
Sam: Eels.
Taliesin: Wait.
Sam: Hey! I did pretty good.
Taliesin: Electric eels-- if they're electric eels--
Marisha: I did okay. And we're still blessed.
Travis: And we still are blessed, right?
Taliesin: Constitution saving throw?
Liam: Keyleth is not. You are, and I am.
Matt: You did choose electric eels.
Laura: Oh!
Marisha: Okay, that went off the rails.
Matt: Which--
Marisha: That's not bad.
Taliesin: Aha!
Marisha: Okay, okay--
Matt: No, hold on.
Travis: Hold on.
Liam: We gots to be immune, man.
Laura: What are we doing?
Matt: I know. Because you chose eels--
Liam: Winging it.
Matt: -- the electricity has no effect.
Taliesin: Ah!
Sam: Matt hates everything right now.
Matt: Weirdly--
Marisha: What?
Matt: -- this worked to your advantage for the 20 initiative count.
Laura: Ah.
Marisha: (sings) Shocking like electric eels.
Matt: So as the pulse of electric energy shoots out from the kraken, it shocks around and through all of you, but your physical eel forms take no damage.
Liam: Feels good!
Matt: As they're used to conducting energy.
Taliesin: Ah!
Marisha: Sweet!
Matt: Vex.
Laura: Yeah?
Sam: (sings) Can't stop the eeling!
Matt: Your turn.
Laura: As an eel, I'm gonna swim around the big brown rock, away from the kraken, towards the door.
Matt: 30. And you're gonna use your action to dash, as well?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: That's as far as you can get. All right, finishing Vex's turn. All righty.
Laura: I feel like I'm just leaving everybody behind-- oh, and Trinket's gonna do the same thing.
Marisha: No, run, run, run. Get out, get out, get out.
Liam: But only because you are.
Matt: That's as far as Trinket can go, there.
Laura: Can he use his double action to do the same thing?
Matt: He doesn't have a double action.
Laura: Just kidding.
Matt: He moves in your turn.
Laura: But I am gonna make my shark attack him! The shark's gonna just swim up in his face.
Taliesin: What is happening?
Laura: Swim up in his eyeball, and just be like, wah, look at me, I'm--
Matt: Roll an attack for your shark.
Laura: I'm a shark!
Liam: Who hasn't gotten punchy at the end of a long D&D game?
Taliesin: I-- man, nothing makes sense anymore.
Liam: This is real D&D.
Laura: 21.
Matt: 21 hits. Roll damage.
Laura: Yes!
Taliesin: Good shark.
Laura: Okay, that's a bite attack, that is--
Liam: You went British again.
Laura: Okay, wait-- oh, that's more than that! Anyway.
Taliesin: I figure since I'm an eel, I'm gonna attack this thing.
Laura: 12.
Taliesin: I think I've got a shot.
Matt: All right. 12 points of damage to the kraken. Gotcha. All righty.
Taliesin: Ahaha. Sorry.
Matt: It's gonna go ahead and use Lightning Storm, costing 2 of its actions. It's going to focus this on--
Liam: Stupid kraken.
Matt: -- Taryon, Grog, and-- because you were the source of its magic and it is horribly frustrated, Keyleth. I need the three of you guys-- oh fuck, it's Lightning Storm, it's not-- you're all eels, what am I doing?
Marisha: Electric eels. We are electric eels.
Liam: Oh, no.
Sam: Oh, Matt hates us.
Matt: I'm-- it's been a long week, and I keep forgetting my fucking shit. It's okay.
Taliesin: This is the Winnie the Pooh of krakens. It's just trying its mild calisthenics to just try and make things.
Matt: All right, so it makes a lightning storm--
Liam: I thought he was being nice to us.
Matt: -- that strikes you guys--
Liam: He was just being nice to us!
Taliesin: And it tickles.
Liam: He's tired!
Matt: -- and, yeah, it tickles your fancy a moment as two of its legendary actions.
Laura: Aw.
Matt: All right, Percy, it's your turn.
Taliesin: I am going to book, double speed--
Matt: Respect. Respect on the electric eels that I gave you.
All: Yay!
Matt: Weirdly, saving your ass right now.
Marisha: Dumb idea that worked out.
Taliesin: I'm going to book through this weird little log.
Liam: 5.9, 6.2, 6.3--
Taliesin: I'm going to go straight through it.
Laura: Ooh, yeah!
Matt: 20, 25, 30. You just get out the other side, just barely seeing the eel-Vex ahead of you, just swimming through.
Laura: I wink at him, with my eel eye.
Sam: Ugh.
Taliesin: Ahh.
Sam: You know what, this is like an electricity between you guys.
Matt: Oh.
Taliesin: Wait, wait, right in the eye. Right in the eye.
Matt: End of Vex's turn, it's gonna use its last legendary action--
Liam: Hey. Fish porn.
Matt: -- to attempt to make a--
Sam: He throws water at us.
Matt: -- a tentacle attack at--
Travis: He throws water at us.
Matt: -- at you, Vax. The one that just recently severed one of its tentacles.
Liam: Okay.
Marisha: It's one of those mega water balloons.
Matt: That is a 28 to hit. Ten plus 18.
Liam: A what to hit?
Laura: Well, you're an eel.
Matt: 28.
Liam: Oh okay, do I not have-- am I hasted? Do I still have advantage on my dex saving throws? As an eel?
Matt: The effect is still on there, so yeah.
Taliesin: Very clever eel.
Liam: So it's, 'cause I'm blessed as well-- oh, it's a 32.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Matt: For dex saving throw?
Laura: But wait, no, it's-- is it an eel's--
Matt: No, it's an attack roll.
Liam: Oh, it's an attack roll. Oh, okay.
Matt: Against your AC, which as an eel is like, ten, so you take damage.
Liam: Oh, okay.
Marisha: You take its physical--
Laura: -- attributes.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: That is 18 points of bludgeoning damage.
Liam: What did it roll? Sorry, I thought--
Travis: 32.
Matt: 28.
Liam: Oh it definitely hit. Yeah, I'm sorry.
Matt: 28.
Laura: Plus, you're an eel. It's a 10 AC.
Matt: So your eel form is destroyed--
Liam: Got it. Aw.
Matt: -- and you take eight points of bludgeoning damage, and you are grappled.
Laura: Fuck.
Taliesin: He's got the dagger, though.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Wait, why is his eel form destroyed?
Laura: 'Cause it was 10 hit--
Matt: 'Cause it has almost no hit points.
Liam: 'Cause it smacked the shit out of me.
Matt: The lightning did nothing, but it just bludgeoned and grabbed and squeezed around the eel, and then you formed back within its grasp.
Taliesin: It's not a giant eel, it's just an eel.
Laura: Yeah. He's got like no hit points as an eel.
Marisha: Yeah, all right.
Taliesin: I can kill an eel. Anybody can.
Marisha: All right.
Liam: I'm sorry, Matt, what was the hit point damage?
Matt: "All right", you arguing?
Liam: There's so much shit--
Laura: Eight. Eight.
Marisha: No. No, we're not arguing.
Taliesin: No. No, we're not arguing.
Marisha: "All right" is not the statement of someone who's arguing.
Matt: Just making sure. I know. It's all good.
Marisha: "All right" is literally "all right."
Sam: Snakes have, like, two hit points.
Taliesin: No that's a kitten, have two hit points. Snakes have, like, six.
Matt: I just, I ruled you guys to have ten hit points in that form.
Taliesin: Yeah, we're ten-hit-point eels.
Marisha: That's fine.
Taliesin: That's fair.
Matt: Yeah, flying snake is, like, five hit points, so. You're fine.
Marisha: Sure.
Taliesin: They have flying snake? Never mind, I don't want to know.
Matt: So that ends-- all right, so that was on Percy's turn. End of that turn. It's back to the Kraken's turn.
Travis: Great.
Matt: The kraken gets its legendary actions back.
Liam: Shit.
Laura: Shit.
Marisha: Did you skip me?
Sam: You did plenty.
Liam: You turned us into eels.
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: I thought I was after Vax?
Matt: Vax went, then you turned everyone into eels.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: And then it went to the 20 count.
Laura: And then I went, then Percy went.
Matt: So now it's back to the kraken.
Liam: I just got whacked.
Marisha: I confused you with Percy.
Matt: You did, it's okay.
Taliesin: It happens.
Matt: All right, the kraken's going to do three bashes.
Liam: It's all right. We're both sad.
Matt: It's going to be against Grog, it's going to be against Keyleth, it's going to be against Taryon.
Sam: Yeah.
Laura: Fuck.
Matt: Grog, that is 29.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Taryon, that is 31.
Sam: Nope.
Matt: (laughs) And, Keyleth, that is 34. All right. So against Grog, that is 24 points of bludgeoning damage.
Travis: Halved to 12.
Matt: You are an eel and grappled. You are out of your eel form and you're grappled. So-- well, your eel form just goes dead then you take-- what did I say again? It was 24--
Travis: 24.
Matt: You take 14 points of bludgeoning damage-- still raging-- halved to seven.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Taryon, your eel form is destroyed.
Sam: Mm-hm.
Matt: That would be 22 points, so you take 12 points of bludgeoning damage.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: And you are grappled. Keyleth-- lucky roll. That is 14 points of bludgeoning damage. Your eel form is done. You're grappled, and you take four points of bludgeoning damage.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Eel freed itself, so now you're back up on your feet.
Marisha: Who's still an eel?
Sam: No one.
Laura: Me and Percy.
Taliesin: Neal the eel.
Matt: Taryon as well.
Travis: Can I make a retaliation since he smacked me?
Matt: You can. Against him or the tentacle?
Travis: The tentacle.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Reckless.
Matt: Reckless.
Laura: Ooh, that's good.
Travis: That's a 31.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: Seven, 22.
Matt: 22 points of damage. You slam into the tentacle and it's still holding, but it's looking severely damaged. It's starting to-- the muscle's starting to tear apart. All right.
Marisha: Don't kill it.
Matt: That brings us to Grog, your turn. Grog, your turn.
Laura: It's okay, it's okay.
Taliesin: We can bring it back.
Travis: May I make my first strike a vengeance upon that stupid tentacle?
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: Yep. Reckless! That was not a roll. 30.
Matt: 30. (all laugh)
Sam: I need some d8s.
Travis: One, 16 points of damage.
Matt: 16 points of damage. You slam it again. This time the tentacle tears open and you're free. You are no longer grappled.
Travis: Sweet. Who's in the tentacle next to me?
Matt: You're gathering at this point, like, somewhere having around 30 points of damage gets rid of the tentacle.
Taliesin: Are we down three tentacles now?
Laura: Yeah, how many tentacles are we--
Matt: You now are down four tentacles total. Six left.
Taliesin: Oh. Six left.
Travis: Who's in the tentacle next to me?
Matt: Just below you about ten feet is Keyleth and Vax.
Travis: I mosey over to the one that Keyleth is in.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: And I will smash that tentacle.
Matt: All right. Keyleth, I need you to make a constitution saving throw, by the way. With advantage.
Marisha: Ooh.
Travis: Should I go ahead and roll?
Matt: 'Cause you took damage-- with the shift form.
Laura: Oh, right.
Marisha: Oh boy.
Laura: Is Beast Shape concentration?
Marisha: Oh that's good. 15.
Matt: You're fine.
Travis: That's a natural 20.
Laura: Oh! That's a natural 20!
Matt: Go ahead and roll damage for that plus your-- ha. So, roll the d10.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Times two.
Travis: Which is a nine.
Travis: 18.
Matt: 18.
Travis: And I get a two additional damage die.
Matt: Yes, you do. So roll two more d10s.
Travis: Okay. Actually, I do nine plus the rage damage, and then I just roll this twice.
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Right. Okay, so that's--
Matt: Well, nine plus rage damage-- well, 9 times two, so it's 18 plus rage damage, plus your strength modifier. You destroyed the tentacle. The tentacle's dead.
Travis: Cool. (all laugh)
Matt: Yeah, Keyleth's tentacle is just smeared like a-- you slam into it and watch as a cloud of dark purple liquid kind of goes past her face. The blood from the kraken clears and the tentacle just goes limp, the section that's been removed from the rest of the tendril.
Travis: Not that you even need it, but I try and release Vax as well.
Matt: Go for it. So roll for--
Travis: Reckless! 16. 30-- 20-- 32.
Matt: Yeah, it hits.
Travis: Cool. Seven. 22.
Matt: 22. You slam into the side of Vax's tentacle, bash it, bash it. It's starting to tear apart, but it's not enough to free him entirely.
Travis: Cool. I am going to biggity-buck the fat out! (all laugh)
Matt: All right, your movement is 50, and you've not used Alter Self, right?
Travis: No, 'cause I don't have that!
Matt: Yes, that's--
Laura: Yes you do. You have a coin!
Travis: Oh, but that--
Matt: Yeah, but you have to use an action to do so. So that's five, ten--
Laura: But that's good to know.
Matt: -- 15, 20, 25. 'Cause your movement's 50 normally.
Travis: Nice.
Matt: So that's as far as you can get just kind of swimming by, trying to get over there. Ends your turn, Grog.
Travis: Thank you.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Making real good distance.
Matt: End of your turn, it's going to use Lightning Storm. Two actions. It's going to hit Grog, Vax, and Keyleth. Need all three of you to make dexterity saving throws, with Vax at disadvantage.
Marisha: Is this considered a spell?
Matt: Nope.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Are we all at disadvantage on the dex throws?
Matt: No, just Vax.
Travis: Okay, so I get two.
Marisha: Don't fuck me, Gil!
Liam: 21.
Marisha: What am I doing? Dex save?
Matt: That's not going to make it, unfortunately.
Liam: So the fail means I take half damage.
Matt: Correct.
Liam: Plus the Deathwalker's Ward, so quarter damage.
Matt: Correct.
Travis: 17 for me.
Marisha: 22 for--
Matt: And Taryon as well, actually.
Sam: Oh! Great.
Travis: Oh, wait! Blessed. Blessed! #Blessed, bitch!
Laura: Still?
Taliesin: Add a d4.
Marisha: (gasps)
Liam: I haven't made a constitution save in a while.
Sam: I mean, I'm grappled, right? So.
Matt: Well, it's not at disadvantage.
Sam: Oh. Okay.
Marisha: Not great.
Sam: 12.
Matt: Wait, you're restrained, you are-- yes. So yes. You do.
Sam: Natural one. (all groan)
Matt: Yeah, so 24 points lightning damage.
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: You're awake.
Marisha: 21 total for me?
Matt: 24 points of lightning damage.
Marisha: I'm unconscious.
Matt: Keyleth falls unconscious once more. Vax.
Liam: My turn? I'm just going to repeat what I did before. Attack--
Matt: No, no. What-- you take 24 reduced to half--
Liam: To a quarter.
Matt: Yeah. So 12 points of lightning damage. Reduced to quarter--
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: -- six.
Liam: Six.
Matt: Then Grog--
Travis: 19.
Matt: 24 points lightning damage reduced to half.
Travis: 12.
Matt: 12.
Matt: All right, so! That was the end of Grog's turn. Taryon, your turn.
Sam: I reach into my magic satchel, this time pulling out a powerful healing potion, which I drink by myself.
Matt: Okay. (all laugh)
Sam: Okay. 14, 21--
Marisha: Is that what you needed all the d8s for?
Sam: Uh-huh. (laughs)
Taliesin: Could have had a d8.
Sam: 35.
Matt: All right. Heal yourself 35.
Laura: Wow.
Sam: Yeah.
Laura: That's a major healing spell.
Sam: Yeah.
Marisha: Give me my d8s back. (all laugh)
Marisha: Fuck you.
Matt: You still have your bonus action, if you want to do anything.
Sam: Just sort of gently weep.
Travis: Weep! (laughs)
Sam: Yeah, just kind of weep softly.
Matt: Vax, you're up.
Sam: I'll do one more Sanctuary on myself! That's my last spell.
Matt: Sanctuary, technically, is still lasting, 'cause it's not concentration.
Sam: It's not! Oh, well then--
Matt: Well, no, every time you attack you lose it. You're right. I keep forgetting that, so yes.
Sam: But I haven't attacked him in a while.
Laura: You've attacked him with acid since.
Matt: You cut a tentacle.
Sam: I did. I did.
Matt: So Sanctuary is back up. Okay.
Liam: Is it on me now?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: All right. Keyleth is adjacent to me, right? On the ground?
Matt: Yes, she is.
Liam: Okay. So I'm going to use my first action to cast Lay On Hands and dump five hit points into her to wake her back up.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Next action is going to be to throw Whisper into the ground again. And bamf to it.
Matt: All right. You just escape the grasp.
Liam: And I'm going to use bonus action to back up fucking 30 feet towards the big-- yeah, towards the portal.
Matt: All right. By the way, all your guys' forms? You revert back to your normal selves. You are no longer eels.
Marisha: Yeah I kind of went unconscience.
Matt: So you're backing up 30 feet?
Liam: Yeah, backing up.
Travis: Unconscience?
Marisha: Unconscious.
Travis: Take it easy there, champ.
Marisha: Yeah, you know.
Travis: Take it real slow.
Matt: You are hasted, so yeah, 30 feet. You just get out of the range. It's going to take an attack of opportunity on you with its tentacle. That is-- nine plus 18 is 27 to hit.
Liam: Oh, that hits. Yeah.
Marisha: It's Gil's fault.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: You take--
Liam: Uncanny Dodge.
Matt: -- 21 points of bludgeoning damage.
Liam: Okay. Halved to ten or 11?
Matt: Halved to ten and you are grappled by the tentacle.
Laura: Ah, jeez!
Liam: Mother bitch!
Travis: Love America.
Sam: We just gotta get out of here. (all laugh)
Travis: I'm gonna kill this stupid sea puppy.
Laura: Don't kill it. Don't kill it.
Sam: Don't kill it, get us out of there!
Marisha: No! No, no, no. Get us out. Get us out.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Leave it armless.
Marisha: Leave it alone.
Matt: Keyleth, it's your turn. You come to consciousness. Once more you watch as Vax is darting off and a tentacle wraps around him. You see Taryon pulled, but the rest of your allies are rushing off in the distance.
Marisha: We have all the lodestones, right?
Laura: Yes, we do. All the lodestones.
Taliesin: Are you getting hit in the head?
Marisha: Yes! I literally have! Fuck!
Matt: What are you doing?
Marisha: Who is closest by the portal?
Matt: You can't see from where you are. It's actually blocked. You just see this giant, jutting underwater structure.
Travis: An ink cloud.
Laura: No, not anymore.
Marisha: There's an ink cloud?
Laura: No, not anymore. They got--
Marisha: I got rid of that, right?
Matt: No, you only got rid of part of it here. The ink cloud still sits in this vicinity.
Laura: Oh.
Marisha: Okay. Oh, dear god. I'm gonna Control Water again.
Matt: You're casting it again?
Marisha: Yeah, I'm casting it again.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Get outta there.
Marisha: Who's around me?
Matt: Around you it is Grog, it is Vax, and it is Taryon.
Marisha: I am going to--
Matt: And a shark.
Marisha: -- push us towards the portal with Control Water. Just (sound of rushing water).
Matt: All of you, towards the portal?
Marisha: Yeah. Control Water towards the portal.
Matt: All right. Say, 20 feet. Five, ten, 15, 20. Five, ten, 15, 20. Five, ten, 15, 20.
Marisha: Is there anyone still held on by the kraken?
Laura: No.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: I mean, Taryon and Vax are still grappled by it, and this-- the kraken gets moved to there.
Liam: It's got some long-ass tentacles.
Marisha: Vax is still grappled?
Matt: 30-foot range.
Laura: Yeah, and Tary.
Liam: Yeah. I was just at the edge of its range and it snagged me.
Matt: So you're right there.
Marisha: Okay. I'm gonna take a Grasping Vine, I'm gonna grab Vax and yank him towards me from this-- who's got the thing? From that-- that one closest by.
Matt: And yank him towards you?
Liam: Back towards the kraken?
Marisha: This one.
Laura: Why are you trying to yank him towards you? You are directly under the Kraken.
Matt: You cannot see this, unfortunately.
Marisha: I can't see that?
Matt: No, this is all obscured with ink right now.
Marisha: Can I see this red thing?
Matt: This thing got pushed this way--
Marisha: Can I see this?
Matt: Actually, with your Control Water that pushed this way would have cleared some ink in this area, but right now this whole structure is blocking it. You cannot see this rock.
Marisha: Can I see this red thing in front of me?
Matt: This here, you can. Vax is right next to it.
Marisha: Okay. I'm gonna drag him closer in. I wanna drag-- send him this way. [no audio]
Liam: -- wooden structure?
Marisha: Beyond it.
Matt: Well, the Grasping Vine only pulls things towards where it emanates, and since he's right next to this, it'll just pull him right against it.
Marisha: Okay, Tary-- where's Tary?
Matt: Tary's right here as well, it'll just pull him into the rock.
Marisha: Well, bullshit all the way around. Then I just swim desperately, doggy paddle towards the portal.
Matt: You still have your bonus action.
Marisha: There's-- what's left?
Matt: Your Wild Shape? Miss five hit points?
Laura: Oh, yeah, that could be smart. Since-- so you don't go unconscious again.
Liam: Whale it, dude.
Marisha: All right. I'll killer whale towards the portal.
Matt: Not to tell you what you're doing, but this is your thing and you're at five hit points, right underneath the kraken, the closest to it.
Marisha: Where am I?
Matt: You're here.
Liam: You're right under the kraken!
Laura: You're right under the kraken!
Marisha: All right. All right. All right. (LAURA laughs)
Taliesin: It's very hard to see from this-- I will say--
Marisha: It is very hard to see from what this is--
Taliesin: --this map is a nightmare.
Travis: Can we get some ammonia that we can pour on a cloth and just, like, take a big whiff of?
Marisha: Sure.
Laura: Just wake her up?
Matt: What are you-- what are you Shaping into?
Laura: Adrenaline.
Marisha: I'll go killer whale.
Matt: Killer whale!
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: I think there's some in the first aid kit in the hallway. I'm pretty sure I stole some last week.
Taliesin: More kraken.
Marisha: That was true.
Taliesin: Oh my god, you actually have a mini for that one.
Matt: I don't actually. I did not come--
Liam: I remember that bag.
Matt: I'll say for the sake of this-- for the time being this--
Marisha: It's fine.
Matt: -- this naga will be your killer whale. Sure. That'll work.
Liam: So pretty.
Matt: All righty.
Marisha: And all of my Control Water direction is towards the portal.
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: You've cleared out some of the ink in this area. That's your turn.
Marisha: Sure.
Matt: All righty. Top of the round. The kraken is going to go ahead and-- the water current seems to shift in the opposite direction. I need each creature within 60 feet of the kraken, which is all of you, to make a strength saving throw.
Travis: Yeah!
Liam: Son of a bitch.
Taliesin: Aw, god damn it.
Marisha: Is that including me?
Matt: Yeah, all of you.
Sam: 11.
Matt: 11?
Taliesin: 23.
Matt: 23, all right.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Matt: So you only get pushed ten feet.
Marisha: 21.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: 18.
Laura: 23.
Liam: Ooh.
Matt: Pushed ten feet.
Laura: But only ten for Trinket.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: 22.
Matt: 22 is a failure. All right. So that is 60 feet away from the kraken for everyone who failed.
Sam: What does that mean?
Matt: So.
Sam: We're just pushed away?
Matt: You're right over here, pushed away.
Taliesin: It's doing a big like (raspberry).
Matt: The water just rushes through and pushes all of you away. Trinket is pushed--
Marisha: Who failed?
Matt: -- 60 feet that direction.
Sam: About everyone.
Laura: All right.
Matt: Roll for the shark, if you could. It's gonna maintain its grapple on you guys, you guys are just being yanked in that direction.
Laura: Does he--
Marisha: Wait, who failed?
Sam: Like, everyone.
Taliesin: Everyone.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: I mean, 18 is what I rolled, I don't know what I add for it.
Matt: Yeah, so no, that's not gonna-- so the shark gets pushed up into that, there.
Sam: Fucking kraken. Do I get slammed into that thing?
Matt: Actually, you do, but it doesn't do any damage, it just kind of pushes you and the tentacle kind of holds you there. Keeping you grappled. It's not gonna release the grapple.
Taliesin: That acid's gotta be-- burn through that at some point. Is that a continuing--
Sam: That's a different tentacle.
Matt: Yep.
Taliesin: Damn it.
Matt: All right. So. That brings us to Vex's turn.
Taliesin: One less.
Laura: I mean, do I see any of this happening as I'm just fucking swimming away? I guess my--
Matt: All the ink has now washed away to the space, and everyone gets pushed away by the force of the water.
Laura: Fuck. I'm gonna swim up so I can see down over the rock.
Sam: (accented) Over the rock?
Matt: Okay, so there, and you can just--
Liam: What's your character's name?
Matt: -- see over this way, you can see your brother there--
Laura: Okay.
Matt: -- you see the kraken, you see everyone being pushed to this way, and everything being shoved to that direction.
Laura: I'm gonna try to shoot an arrow into the tentacle holding my brother.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Liam: Where'd the Key-whale go?
Laura: Oh. Disadvantage, right?
Matt: Yep.
Laura: Same thing. 25?
Matt: 25 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: 15, 16, 17. 17 damage, with four lightning, which I'm sure does nothing.
Matt: Nope. That's enough. Your arrow goes right through, and that's the last bit of damage it needs to actually sever that tentacle.
Liam: Love you!
Laura: Sweet.
Matt: Freeing him. All right.
Laura: And then I'm gonna-- do I have any movement to swim back down and hide? As my bonus?
Matt: You could certainly try. If you land back down that way--
Laura: Oh, miss it.
Matt: So go ahead and roll-- breaking line of sight just barely, go ahead and make a hide check.
Laura: 22.
Matt: 22. Okay.
Laura: And then I'm gonna have my shark attack him.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: How many tentacles does it have?
Matt: The shark has a speed of what? 40?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: 30, 35, 40. Just barely gets up into the space to hit it, so.
Laura: Plus nine-- 17 plus nine is 26!
Matt: 26 hits!
Taliesin: Good shark.
Laura: Good shark. Good shark. Good shark. With a bite attack--
Liam: Frickin' lasers.
Laura: Sweet. 14.
Matt: 14 points of damage. All righty.
Laura: I'm just using Trinket's stats, 'cause that's what I had in front of me.
Matt: Sure.
Laura: Is that terrible?
Matt: Yeah. But it's fine.
Laura: I'm sorry.
Matt: You haven't done enough damage, near enough, to really threaten the kraken yet, so you're fine.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: All right.
Travis: What turn's that?
Matt: Ending Vex's turn!
Marisha: No.
Matt: End of the turn, it's gonna use its last legendary action. It's going to go ahead and make a tentacle attack at you.
Laura: Oh, and Trinket's gonna swim towards the door.
Matt: That's as far as Trinket can get. All righty. That is a 29 to hit.
Liam: Shit balls. 28. Wait--
Taliesin: d4.
Liam: I'm Blessed!
Laura: It's your AC.
Matt: It's your AC.
Laura: It's just your AC.
Liam: Oh, fuck a duck, I thought I was doing it in-- a Dex save. Then it got me.
Matt: That is 18 points of bludgeoning damage.
Liam: Sure.
Matt: And you are grappled.
Liam: Uncanny Dodge.
Matt: Right. So nine.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: And it grapples you once more with that tentacle.
Liam: Okay.
Travis: How many tentacles were left, like three?
Matt: Five.
Travis: Five.
Laura: Fuck, he has a lot of tentacles.
Taliesin: They go down-- they go down fast, though.
Liam: Get out, get, go.
Matt: All righty. Percival. Your turn.
Taliesin: I am booking double speed to that door, 'cause I am useless--
Marisha: Get out, get out, get out, get out.
Matt: That's as far as you can go.
Taliesin: And I'm also-- I've got form this-- so I'm full speed.
Matt: What form?
Marisha: Alter Self. Alter Self.
Taliesin: Fins and gills. Alter Self.
Matt: That's right, you did, yeah. So, yeah.
Marisha: Alter Self. Go, go, go out--
Laura: And you're out!
Marisha: Out! You're out!
Matt: You leap out, you are through.
Laura: One's out! One's out!
Liam: Yes, one of us will live!
Taliesin: I am holding-- I am just, like, waiting on the other end for everybody.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: But you made it! That's good!
Liam: Who lives, who dies--
Liam: --who tells our story.
Marisha: --who tells our story.
Taliesin: --who tells our story.
Taliesin: Please, please no. Please, no.
Liam: It's too late!
Laura: It already happened.
Liam: It's done.
Matt: Top of the kraken's turn--
Liam: Jeez.
Marisha: Just tell 'em, tell 'em Percy! Tell Doty!
Matt: It's gonna move over here--
Taliesin: I'm just so useless in this fight.
Matt: Grappled, Vax?
Marisha: That's not true.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: It's going-- giant beak--
Laura: No, no, no!
Matt: -- opens up towards you. That is a two plus 18, that is a 20 to hit.
Liam: No.
Matt: Because of the Haste bonus.
Liam: Yes.
Travis: Oh, he does not swallow you.
Laura: He doesn't swallow you!
Matt: I fuckin' rolled a two. Okay, all right, as it goes and snaps towards you--
Liam: Van Damme splits, just out of the way!
Laura: But grappled.
Matt: However, hang on. However, while you were attacked, you were restrained, so--
Laura: I'm gonna throw up.
Matt: -- restrained creatures, attacks against them do have advantage.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: So, that is a 28.
Liam: See ya later, guys.
Sam: You got swallowed?
Liam: Mm-hm.
Laura: What if you--
Marisha: What?
Matt: I just realised that, 'cause it says-- I forgot, it says here-- it says until the target's grapple ends the target is restrained, and attacks against restrained creatures have advantage.
Liam: Is that at all connected to dexterity?
Matt: No.
Liam: No. Okay.
Matt: Sorry.
Liam: It's all right.
Matt: So that is--
Sam: Are you dead inside of it?
Laura: Is this the ultimate fight of like--
Sam: Or just inside of it?
Laura: Yes! Ugh.
Marisha: No, he's just inside.
Matt: 15, 24, 34 points of piercing damage.
Liam: I'm out.
Laura: (gasps) you're unconscious inside of him?
Matt: And you are swallowed.
Travis: Holy fucking shit.
Sam: He'll be fine. He'll be fine!
Travis: This is insane. Oh my god.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Oh shit.
Matt: That is the kraken's turn, Grog, you're up. You watch as it just swallows Vax as his eyes go limp, and the jaws just take his not moving form and swallow inside.
Travis: Um.
Marisha: Does Keyleth see this?
Matt: You do, 'cause you're back here. Make an intelligence check.
Travis: An intelligence check?
Matt: I know.
Travis: Hold on, everybody. Prepare for an amazing--
Laura: Natural 20.
Travis: Nine.
Matt: All right. What are you doing?
Travis: I am gonna attack this big stupid sea-chicken.
Matt: Okay, so you just get into melee range.
Travis: Wait, I mean-- yeah. Yeah.
Sam: Yeah, 'course.
Marisha: Go for it, that's exactly what Grog would do.
Travis: Yeah, can I aim for one of its tentacles that is functioning?
Matt: Sure. Go for it.
Travis: Cool. Reckless. Natural 20.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Should've made it-- That's a--
Laura: Wow.
Travis: Ten, plus, 25, 30, 35.
Matt: 35 points of damage. You go ahead and sever one of the nearby immediate tentacles as it's whipping around you.
Travis: I'll take the next tentacle that works.
Matt: Okay. As you finish that strike, you feel this strange sense piercing into your relatively unprotected skull.
Travis: It's very unprotected.
Matt: As no language peeks through, but you get this very strong, angry, hungry sense-- this emotional force that says, "Oh, now you've made me angry."
Sam: Ooh.
Matt: You start realising very quickly that this creature, while it seemed like a force of nature, has been just feeding, but you've got its attention now.
Sam: Ooh.
Matt: Its instinct has turned now to its intellect to reach out to its food. You've made it angry. What are you doing with your next attack?
Laura: Fuck. We shouldn't have attacked it so much.
Travis: Apparently, my hammer is talking to me. Reckless attack.
Matt: All right.
Travis: 23.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: Okay. 17.
Matt: 17 damage? All righty.
Travis: Last attack-- that tentacle's still fine, right?
Matt: Yes it is, damaged, but it's still there.
Travis: Yeah. All right, Reckless. 31.
Matt: 31 hits.
Travis: Ten. 25.
Matt: 25. You destroy another tentacle, as three are currently remaining.
Sam: One of them's around my neck.
Travis: Yeah, so one of 'em's on Tary, and there are two free?
Matt: Correct.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: That ends your turn.
Travis: I am going to use my not incredible speed to just--
Matt: You used your full speed to move up to it.
Travis: I'm gonna just end my turn.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Taryon.
Sam: I mean, I mean--
Taliesin: Do you have-- do you have a Hail Mary?
Sam: I mean-- No!
Taliesin: This is-- wow.
Sam: No, I have-- my Hail Mary I did on my first turn. I'm going to try to break free. I will put my finger up right next to-- against the tentacle, and just use that Ring of the Ram, and just try to punch through it.
Matt: Okay. So, how many charges--
Sam: I regained three.
Matt: Okay, so you use all three charges?
Sam: I have all three charges.
Matt: Go for it. So go ahead and make your ranged spell attack with disadvantage.
Sam: 12 plus nine is 21.
Matt: That hits! Go--
Sam: Oh wait, disadvantage, shit. That's less. That's 17.
Matt: 17 just misses. You try and squeeze it by and the ring releases and it smashes into the rock and destroys part of the nearby plant life, which then begins to just float away, chunks of rock and sand, and some of the underground dark soot begins to billow out. The tentacle still remains affixed around you.
Sam: Terrible.
Taliesin: Do you have a bonus action? Anything you can--
Matt: All right.
Sam: I mean, I don't have any potions, or anything, I-- nope, that's it.
Matt: It is going to use one of its legendary actions to attack Grog with one of its remaining tentacles.
Laura: He's a defeatist, if I've ever seen it.
Matt: That is a 34.
Travis: I think that hits.
Matt: Grog, you take 19 points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to nine--
Travis: Okay.
Matt: -- and you are grappled.
Taliesin: It only has one more tentacle left that is available.
Marisha: We can't fucking kill it, you guys, don't kill it.
Travis: I would like to make a Retaliatory Attack.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: A Retali-tali--
Taliesin: It can have no tentacles. It can still feed.
Matt: Against?
Travis: The one that grappled me.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Taliesin: They'll grow back.
Travis: Reckless.
Marisha: They won't grow back.
Travis: That's a 31 again.
Matt: That hits. Roll damage.
Travis: Okay. 21.
Matt: 21 points of damage. You slam into it, it looks like it's pulling apart, but the muscle's still holding tight. Vax. I need you to make a death saving throw with advantage.
Marisha: Don't die.
Matt: Okay. Brings us to Keyleth.
Travis: Did it work?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: You're back here.
Marisha: Who's grappled and who's closest to the portal?
Matt: Grog is closest to you, grappled, and there is Taryon on the other side, that you cannot quite see.
Marisha: I still have Control Water up, correct?
Matt: You would, yes.
Marisha: Taryon and Grog are both grappled?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: And I'm free underneath them?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: You're free over here, yes.
Liam: Yeah, you got loose.
Sam: You're the naga.
Marisha: Okay. I used Alter Self originally, correct?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: Alter Self. So I still have all my Beast Shaping, correct?
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Well, you have your beast shape you used to turn into this form.
Marisha: Huh?
Matt: Your Wild Shape you used to into this form.
Sam: You're a whale right now.
Marisha: I didn't use Alter Self to do that?
Sam: No.
Laura: You used Beast Form on that.
Sam: Alter Self doesn't do that.
Marisha: Oh, okay cool.
Matt: Alter Self just gives you gills and fins, you used--
Laura: You used Beast Form to turn into a whale.
Marisha: Sorry, sorry, sorry, I meant, sorry, I meant-- Animal Shapes. No?
Matt: Animal Shapes you've already cast on everybody--
Marisha: I've used Animal Shapes to everybody?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Right, but you lost concentration--
Marisha: I used that to me, right.
Matt: -- when you went unconscious.
Marisha: All right. Cool, cool, cool. Cool. Okay. I'm gonna try to get Grog out of the grasp again with my Grasping Vine.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Bonus action first. See if I can--
Matt: Grasping Vine from where?
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: You can have it come out of the ground here if you want it to.
Marisha: He's right here?
Matt: Grog is right here.
Marisha: Correct? Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I wanna be over here-ish.
Laura: You're pointing at the TV screen.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Sam: (laughs)
Marisha: Yeah. It's hard 'cause I don't literally have access beyond this rock.
Matt: So pulling up this way?
Marisha: On the other side of that, closest to the portal? Yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah, yeah. Yeah. That's what I want.
Matt: Okay, so we'll say, pulling this way.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and roll a d20 plus your wisdom modifier.
Marisha: Don't fuck me, Gil!
Taliesin: Oh.
Marisha: What is that? What is that? Not-- What is that? What is that?
Taliesin: Oh, that's good! Okay, yeah, that's really hard to see, sorry, 'cause of the light. That's a 17.
Liam: Plus your wisdom modifier.
Marisha: That is a 17?
Taliesin: That is a 17, yes.
Laura: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Liam: 17 plus.
Marisha: Sorry, I don't want to feel insane. Plus my wisdom modifier.
Liam: Yes.
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: (nervous laugh)
Matt: Which is?
Marisha: 30-- sorry, 28! 28!
Matt: Your Wisdom modifier is plus six, right?
Marisha: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, sorry, not a saving throw, so 20-- 17 plus six, which is 25?
Matt: All right, so you pull Grog this way, and with Grasping--
Laura: 23.
Matt: -- Vine, that's a range of what?
Marisha: 23? 17 plus five-- six?
Matt: What's the range of your Grasping Vine?
Liam: The range. The range of Grasping Vine.
Matt: How long-- how far does it pull?
Marisha: It's a 30-foot range, with another 30-foot range coming from me. So 60 foot total.
Matt: Right. So you-- okay, you can pull him out of the range, it does break--
Marisha: 30 foot.
Matt: Yeah. So you do break the grapple on Grog, and pull him away from that.
Taliesin: Drinking again.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: All right. So your movement.
Marisha: And then I have my action, and my movement.
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: And I'm a normal person right now, or am I a whale?
Matt: No. You're a whale, still. You haven't taken any damage. You just got pushed away.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Which actually, technically, in whale form you couldn't cast the spell.
Marisha: I wouldn't be able to cast the spell.
Matt: So would you drop your form?
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: For sure.
Matt: Okay. So Keyleth--
Marisha: Yeah, I would definitely drop the form.
Matt: Keyleth is back into that, cast the spell.
Marisha: And then I have another spell. Correct?
Matt: You have your-- well, you have your-- you can cast your--
Marisha: Second level or lower.
Matt: -- second level or lower as your action, and you have your movement still.
Marisha: So-- fuckin' A, this is complicated. Okay. Then I would cast, oh, shit. I got Grog out. Who's almost dead?
Laura: Well, Vax is inside of the kraken.
Taliesin: Vax.
Travis: Vax is inside--
Marisha: Yeah, I don't know if I can do anything about that right now, though. I can cast a second level or lower-- oh my god, this is awful.
Sam: Just heal yourself.
Marisha: All right. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'll heal myself-- sorry, for another Healing Word level two-- last level two spell.
Matt: Okay. And you're gonna move towards the--
Marisha: I'm gonna move-- no, I'm gonna stay close towards the kraken.
Matt: So you're gonna stay here?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Or move towards the kraken? Are you not moving?
Marisha: Where am I?
Matt: You're right here.
Liam: It's hard to see on the screen.
Marisha: You're actually not even on the screen.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Right, but you can see my fingers.
Marisha: I can see your fingers-- let me move closer towards the kraken and towards the portal.
Matt: There you go.
Marisha: And that's all I'll do.
Matt: So we'll say there.
Matt: Okay. Got you. Top of the lair action--
Marisha: And I heal myself, sorry, level two--
Matt: Yes. Do that.
Marisha: -- which is 2d8. Healing Word.
Matt: All right. I need everybody to make--
Sam: Oh boy.
Marisha: Sorry. 2d4.
Matt: -- a constitution saving throw.
Marisha: That's-- both ones. That sucks. One plus six--
Sam: 12!
Travis: I'm not Blessed anymore, am I?
Matt: 13 points of lightning damage.
Sam: Great.
Matt: Percival.
Taliesin: I'm not there.
Matt: You're not there. That's right. Keyleth. Constitution saving throw.
Liam: Roll a d20.
Marisha: Natural one.
Matt: 13 points of lightning damage.
Marisha: 13?
Matt: 13. Vex.
Marisha: I had 12 hit points, so I'm unconscious.
Travis: Didn't you just heal yourself a little bit more, though?
Taliesin: For 12.
Marisha: I-- for 12. And now I'm zero.
Liam: But you would have 20--
Matt: Wait, wait, you were at five before.
Liam: You were at five. You couldn't have been at zero.
Marisha: And then I healed seven.
Liam: Oh, to seven to get to 12.
Laura: Ooh.
Matt: Ooh.
Marisha: And I healed seven 'cause I rolled two ones.
Matt: Yeah, Keyleth goes unconscious.
Marisha: So-- no, no, no, wait-- I rolled two ones on my d4s.
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: And I have--
Taliesin: Six plus two.
Marisha: -- a plus six, so that's actually eight.
Matt: Eight?
Marisha: Do I have one hit point left?
Taliesin: You're at one hit point, you're at one hit point.
Marisha: Is that accurate?
Sam: Eight plus five is--
Taliesin: Yes.
Sam: -- eight plus five is 13, you just took 13 hit points.
Matt: You're zero.
Laura: So you're at zero.
Taliesin: You're at zero. Never mind. Fuck.
Matt: You just fall unconscious.
Laura: You're at zero.
Marisha: I'm at zero.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: All righty.
Marisha: God f-- damn it.
Laura: I rolled a 20.
Matt: A 20?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right, so you take 13 points lightning damage.
Laura: Okay, and Trinket rolled a-- like a four.
Matt: 13 points of lightning damage.
Laura: Cool.
Travis: 20-- 23 and resistance.
Matt: All right, so that's 11--
Taliesin: It's gonna come down to Grog.
Matt: -- six points of lightning damage to you, Grog. All right, so Control Water is dropped.
Marisha: Get out. Out.
Matt: That ends--
Travis: Me?
Marisha: Get out. Get out.
Matt: -- Keyleth's turn. The 20 count.
Travis: What about him?
Matt: Vex, what are you doing?
Marisha: You're all-- I've got him. You've got three lodestones.
Laura: I saw--
Taliesin: You don't have--
Matt: You saw Keyleth just go--
Travis: I only have one.
Marisha: You and him.
Matt: -- get shocked as the burst of electrical energy shoots through the area, and she just kinda goes limp again, and is kind of floating in space.
Laura: And I saw Vax get swallowed? Did I see that happen?
Matt: You would've just barely seen it over your shoulder. And heard someone say it over the earpiece.
Laura: I-- fuckin' A. I swim up, and I swim-- god damn it.
Matt: You have your bonus action for a dash if you want to try and get closer, it's up to you.
Laura: I'm gonna try to shoot thorns, I guess, Hail of Thorns, maybe? Actually, I'm gonna try-- yeah. I'm gonna try--
Matt: What are you doing?
Laura: -- to shoot Hail of Thorns at-- directly at his mouth. I don't know, try to get him to like, do something to let go. Spit it up. It's the stupidest plan. I know. But, I'm not thinking clearly, my brother's got fucking swallowed.
Matt: Okay, what level Hail of Thorns?
Laura: I'm gonna do it at-- Oh, everything within five feet, and Keyleth is in five feet.
Matt: No, Keyleth is over here.
Laura: Okay. Is anything within five feet?
Matt: Currently, no.
Laura: Okay. Then I'm gonna-- I'm gonna cast it at fourth level.
Matt: Fourth level?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: You still have a fourth-level spell?
Laura: Oh no, I did Grasping Vine.
Matt: You did.
Laura: Did I?
Matt: That's when you pull--
Laura: No, I didn't.
Marisha: That was me.
Laura: No, I did Conjure Animals.
Matt: That's right, you did.
Laura: So fourth level.
Matt: Yeah, okay, fourth level? So that is an additional 4d10 piercing damage towards the attack. Go ahead and roll the attack.
Laura: 23?
Matt: 23 is the disadvantage?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, that hits.
Laura: 11 plus three lightning and then-- how many? 4d10?
Matt: 4d10.
Laura: 18.
Matt: Okay, plus 18 points of damage. So as you fire the arrow, it sinks into the side of its mouth, just bursts with thorns in the vicinity. Kind of roils, but it doesn't seem to have any effect. You have your secondary attack if you want to.
Laura: Yeah, I guess I'm gonna try to shoot at his eye.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and roll.
Laura: 29.
Matt: 29 hits.
Laura: 16, plus four lightning, nothing.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And I'm gonna-- This is so stupid. I'm gonna swim back down and try to hide. I've got nothing.
Matt: You already used your bonus action, unfortunately. To cast the spell.
Laura: Yes, I did. I'm gonna stand right there and say, fuck you, let go of my brother.
Matt: Okay. Percival, you're on the other side of the portal, looking through and you're watch--
Taliesin: How long-- Can I see what's going on?
Matt: I mean, you get a slight-- If you peek out the side. It's still obscured and like, the water--
Taliesin: And it's only been six seconds.
Matt: The Daylight spell is still kinda shooting out from underneath, so it's this beacon of light in the underwater area. So you get a decent view of what's going on. You see Keyleth kinda go limp in the distance. You see Grog there. You see Vex trying to shoot.
Taliesin: No. (inhales) I'm gonna try and-- how far do I have on that? I'm gonna try and stick my head through the portal. I'm gonna try and cast Minor Illusion? In front of the beast?
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: It can't be complicated, can it? It's gotta be small.
Matt: Nope. It is a cantrip.
Taliesin: It's a cantrip, so it's nothing. It's nothing fancy. I'm just gonna try and make a big meaty target appear. Just like a thing that looks like-- I'm gonna try and do like the shape of some aquatic animal? A small-- anything to try and get right in its face?
Matt: You concentrate through the portal and you watch just short of about 30 feet past you, a little shimmering space looks almost like a fish but it's sort of translucent and blob-like.
Taliesin: God damn it.
Matt: It's not really gonna help in this situation. Sorry.
Taliesin: I got-- Other than-- Yeah, I got nothing. Other than trying to distract it.
Matt: All right. End of your turn?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: It's going to use--
Taliesin: I pull back through the portal, obviously, but.
Matt: All righty. As you pull back through and it returns, it's gonna ahead and use-- It's taking another legendary action to make a-- This is gonna be a tentacle attack against you, Grog?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: With advantage, that's going to be nine plus 18, that's 27?
Travis: That hits.
Matt: You take 12 points of bludgeoning damage plus ten, that's 22. Divided by that. 11.
Travis: 11.
Matt: All right, Percy's--
Travis: Can I make a retalito-ri-teh?
Matt: You already used it.
Travis: I did.
Matt: Sorry.
Sam: Retali-tali-tah?
Matt: It is now the Kraken's turn. At the top of the round, you lose a death saving throw?
Sam: To what?
Matt: As the acid begins to slowly burn away--
Laura: Oh yeah, this is gonna be--
Matt: Oh no, I mean like, you lose one. As the acid burns.
Liam: Oh, it just goes. Okay.
Matt: The acid is slowly digesting you. It's gonna move four, five, ten, 15, 25, 30. We'll say for the purposes of this, you're right there, Grog. Space is getting a little cluttered over there.
Travis: Am I grappled or did he just bitch slap me?
Matt: I mean, it hit you and grappled you.
Travis: Okay, cool.
Matt: One of its remaining tentacles--
Taliesin: Is Tary-- Tary's still held on?
Matt: Tary is--
Sam: Being pulled around.
Travis: Hah!
Matt: You're being pulled up over the rock and dragged across.
Liam: (make impact noises)
Laura: (make impact noises)
Matt: Like, oh god. Over there. That's a 34. You take-- this shit's getting intense.
Taliesin: (groans)
Matt: Oh my god.
Liam: Getting intense? Jesus.
Matt: (laughs) That is--
Marisha: God damn it.
Matt: -- 29 points of piercing damage, halved--
Travis: Okay, so that's?
Matt: To 14--
Travis: 14.
Matt: And it swallows you a second time.
Taliesin: Good!
Laura: Good, then you can get Vax out.
Marisha: Yeah, you can get Vax out.
Matt: Pulling you into its body--
Taliesin: Good! I approve of this.
Travis: You guys think this is part of a plan.
Matt: You are consumed and restrained once again in its dark space inside as you're pulled into the--
Travis: Fuck this tiny hole shit.
Laura: (laughs)
Matt: That ends its turn, Grog, you're up.
Travis: Ah, it's my turn now? I don't even get like a second to think about it?
Matt: Nope! Ah, as you're pulled inside the voice comes up again and it's now emanating outward to you as well, Vex, and in the unconscious darkness of Vax and Keyleth, the voice just says, "I've been here a long time, and I'll be here long after you are dust. Feed me and give me sustenance, I'll find my way through somehow." Grog?
Travis: I take a greater healing potion. Can I reach Vax at all? Can I find any part of his foot or anything and pull him down to me?
Matt: All right, so-- you can either reach around for him, try and feel for him-- you can take a healing potion as a bonus action if you'd like.
Travis: It's not for me.
Matt: Oh, it's not for you? You can make an investigation check to try and find him. This is gonna be your action to do so.
Travis: Is he rough at all? Even close?
Liam: The kraken.
Laura: The kraken.
Matt: The kraken? Not from what you've seen. You guys haven't been doing focusing damage, you've been trying to move around him. He's lost a number of tentacles, but--
Travis: Right, and those tentacles-- the tentacles don't count towards his overall damage?
Matt: No, they do.
Taliesin: They do, but--
Travis: (sighs loudly) What a choice. I am going to-- fuck it, I'm gonna make an investigation check for Vax.
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: (groans)
Travis: That's a big natural one.
Matt: Feeling around inside, you're unable to find any current form of Vax right now. However, you still have your bonus action and you are frenzied.
Liam: Take that fucking potion. Take it.
Travis: All right, I'll take the potion myself.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: So, what potion is it?
Travis: It's a greater, my last greater
Matt: All right, 4d4 plus four hit points.
Travis: 4d4 plus four.
Laura: So that's 48 hit points healed!
Travis: Seven, eight--
Sam: (laughs) Thanks, Laura.
Travis: 11, 12.
Matt: Oh, Laura, do you want your shark to do anything, by the way?
Travis: 16.
Sam: Nailed it!
Travis: 16 points of healing.
Laura: Yeah, I want it to go and try and attack the tentacle that is holding Tary.
Sam: The shark? Hello, shark friend! Aquatic ally!
Liam: I'll be back.
Laura: 21? No, 22.
Matt: That hits, roll damage.
Laura: 14.
Matt: 14 points of damage, that was one that had previously taken 22 points of damage--
Sam: Ooh!
Matt: the shark actually does tear the tentacle free, so technically Taryon, before you're about to get dragged over the coals of the top of this, before the shark actually tore into and removed your grapple from--
Taliesin: And Trinket runs.
Matt: It is down to two tentacles.
Laura: Trinket runs--
Sam: Wow.
Laura: -- oh yeah, and Trinket ran towards the door
Marisha: To the door, Taryon.
Sam: I can't hear anything.
Matt: Four here, four there.
Taliesin: Well, and she's unconscious.
Sam: (laughs) I can't really see the layout-- is it my turn, by the way?
Matt: It is your turn now, yeah.
Sam: I can't really see the layout of that rock, can I see through it? Is there an under that I can--
Matt: There is actually-- there is a small, kind of under-- kind of a low bridge.
Sam: Well, ball sack. I can't move very fast now, can I?
Matt: You can move 15 feet, as you swim through.
Sam: Can I wiggle through, under the little outcropping there, and get to the other side?
Matt: 15. You can just get out to that side, yeah.
Sam: Do I have a clean line of sight on him?
Matt: On the kraken?
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: Yes, you do.
Sam: Okay. I mean-- I can't really--
Taliesin: How many tentacles does the kraken have now?
Matt: Two more.
Sam: If I shoot the thing, the people inside will die. (nervous laugh)
Laura: I don't know about that, it might keep them from getting digested
Sam: Nuh-uh. I don't think so
Taliesin: Only one-- I mean, it's not like you're saving them by not hitting them at this point
Sam: They're gonna die.
Taliesin: Yeah, no matter what you do.
Marisha: Don't kill the kraken.
Taliesin: Kraken ain't dying.
Sam: I mean--
Taliesin: Kraken got ten thousand hit points.
Sam: Wow.
Taliesin: He's not even vaguely dying.
Sam: Is there a part of the kraken I can see that looks like I can do damage to it without hurting the main-- what is that, the thorax? (laughs)
Matt: You don't see any-- it is a big creature. Your friends are somewhere deep inside its fleshy, digesting interior, the outside is armored, and filled with very, very taut muscle and hide, so yeah. You would probably not damage your friends if you were careful.
Sam: All right, well, then I will take off a diamond and blast it with a Prismatic Spray.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: Oh shit.
Taliesin: Thank god!
Sam: Yeah, yeah, except half of the things won't do anything to it.
Taliesin: Yeah, but we are out of options!
Laura: Well, still better than nothing.
Taliesin: I am totally okay with a Hail Mary.
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: Okay, so as a Prismatic Spray, in this direction-- out this way, it'll just crest past the front of the kraken and the tentacles-- let's see here. Prismatic Spray, that's a dexterity saving throw on that.
Sam: I'm sure it makes it.
Matt: That is a 23.
Sam: Yeah, of course it makes it.
Matt: All right, so roll for your first beam, which is against the kraken itself.
Sam: Do I roll a d8? Or wait, to choose what kind of beam?
Matt: Are you focusing on the kraken or one of its tentacles?
Sam: I mean, no tentacles are holding anything right now, right?
Matt: Currently, no.
Sam: All right, so--
Matt: So it'd be just the kraken.
Sam: Just the kraken.
Matt: All right, so roll a d8 to see which beam hits it.
Sam: Five?
Matt: Five, that is 10d6 cold damage.
Sam: Oh, cold! That's good.
Matt: So go ahead and roll that.
Taliesin: Want some d6s? Or are you okay?
Sam: Doesn't have resistance to that, right?
Laura: Maybe.
Sam: Ten, right?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: Eight, 14, 19, 30, 35.
Matt: 35 points of cold damage, reduced to half because it made its save.
Sam: (groans)
Travis: Disable those tentacles, man.
Matt: That's 13. All right.
Taliesin: If you do enough damage to it, it may vomit them out.
Travis: No, we gotta do it from the inside.
Matt: You get that sense.
Laura: (groans)
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Do you have-- yeah, and the tentacles don't get a Prismatic Spray of their own?
Matt: Nah, it's one of those things where it just damages the creature, you have to focus a specific physical attack on one tentacle.
Taliesin: Oh, man.
Matt: All right, that brings us to the top of the round, Vax, go ahead and roll a death saving throw with advantage.
Sam: I can't do a-- rip off a patch and take a potion, can I, as a bonus?
Matt: A regular potion, you mean?
Sam: It's a patch potion.
Matt: A patch potion?
Sam: Yeah.
Liam: It's like a nicotine patch.
Laura: Would it be like a patch healing spell?
Taliesin: A Patch Addams.
Matt: Using the patch is an action I think, originally, sorry.
Travis: Can you chew it?
Sam: (laughs) I just chew on the patch.
Matt: So Vax?
Taliesin: It's just jerky you've sewn into you.
Liam: Good.
Sam: (laughs)
Matt: All right, so Keyleth, death saving throw please.
Travis: Oh, I forgot she's unconscious, too.
Taliesin: (groans)
Marisha: Plus my constitution?
Matt: Nope, just a d20.
Taliesin: Nope, straight.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Marisha: Three.
Matt: All right, so you failed one death saving throw. Let's see. Then after that, it's--
Sam: Percy's having a Mai Tai somewhere.
Matt: All right, Vex, Trinket and Taryon, make dexterity saving throws please.
Sam: 11!
Matt: 11. Six points of lightning damage.
Laura: 19 for me.
Matt: Six points of lightning damage.
Laura: And-- fail, like five.
Matt: Six points of lightning damage for Trinket.
Laura: Six?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: He's unconscious, so he's bamfed to my necklace.
Matt: All right, well, yeah.
Laura: Is he within a hundred feet?
Matt: Yeah, yeah he is. Keyleth, you fail another death saving throw.
Marisha: Immediately?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: You took lightning damage.
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: Oh my god.
Sam: This is not gonna go well, guys. (nervous laugh) We got nobody else on the field.
Matt: Vex, it's your turn, you have an unconscious Keyleth over here.
Laura: I'm gonna swim to her and try to cast Cure Wounds.
Matt: Okay. Cast it.
Laura: Good, I'm casting it at third level. So that's 3d8. That's cocked. That sucks. Seven, sorry.
Matt: So that was a total of what?
Laura: Seven.
Matt: Seven.
Sam: -- points. Hey Keyleth, you're alive!
Matt: So Keyleth, you are conscious.
Marisha: Seven points?
Matt: You heal seven hit points, you are conscious.
Marisha: (gasps)
Travis: Back in the game.
Laura: Save my brother! (garbled) Save my brother.
Marisha: (garbled) Okay.
Matt: All right. Ending Vex's turn. Percival-- actually, Vex, you still have movement if you want to.
Laura: I'm gonna try to hide.
Matt: You have nothing to hide behind.
Marisha: Get out, get out, get out.
Laura: I'm gonna just swim away from-- I'm just gonna try to swim towards the fucking door, but try to keep my distance from kraken while I'm doing it.
Matt: It's hard to do that right now, but you have the door that way, there's a little gap. All right, that ends Vex's turn. Percival, anything?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Sam: That thing do anything?
Taliesin: No, it fires electricity.
Sam: Oh.
Laura: Oh, shark is going to attack one of the last tentacles, if it can get to it.
Taliesin: I'm going to hold my action for--
Matt: It can just barely get there. Go ahead and roll an attack.
Taliesin: -- for the vague hope of something useful.
Matt: Okay. Holding your action to?
Taliesin: To attack-- I've already burned it, and it laughed it off. Just to attack the kraken--
Matt: Just sword at the ready?
Taliesin: If it gets close enough, just sword, just--
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 28.
Matt: 28 hits. Roll damage.
Laura: 12.
Sam: That shark is our most effective weapon.
Laura: The shark has been pretty great.
Matt: All righty. That brings us to--
Sam: What can you turn us into?
Matt: -- the kraken's turn. Top of the turn, the acid burns through you even further, Vax. You fail another death saving throw.
Liam: So that's two?
Matt: That's two. All right. Top of the kraken's turn, it's going to-- let's see who's in range, here.
Sam: (sings with the background music)
Travis: This is mindblowing.
Laura: And it's so late.
Liam: Yeah, it's midnight.
Laura: And we're just into the wee hours of the morning, watching ourselves die.
Sam: Guys, I think this is one of our tightest games.
Matt: This is kind of nuts. All right, it's going to make a tentacle attack at both-- at the shark, Vex, and Keyleth.
Laura: But he only has two tentacles left.
Matt: That's right, two tentacles. So it's going to make one at Vex and Keyleth.
Travis: But the shark is so dangerous.
Laura: The shark's been hurting it.
Sam: The shark is literally the most dangerous thing we have.
Laura: And Keyleth just is barely--
Matt: You gather this creature is far more intelligent than you think. It's not a natural beast. It's a fairly intelligent creature.
Sam: What if the shark gets the how do you want to do this?
Matt: That is a 26 versus you. You take-- well, the good news is I'm rolling shit damage. That is 18 points of bludgeoning damage to you, Vex, and you are grappled by one tentacle. And against Keyleth, you are-- it's technically not within five feet of you. That's a natural one. I was like, I'm pretty sure he had advantage because you're prone, but prone is the creature has advantage against any creature that is within five feet of the creature, otherwise it has disadvantage. So yeah.
Laura: That's great.
Taliesin: Oh, god.
Marisha: I'll just go back to doggy paddling.
Matt: That's one thing that saved you. And that's gonna be-- just the two attacks, that's all it can do this turn. All right. That brings us to Grog, you're up.
Travis: Let us whoop the everloving shit out of the inside of this kraken, Reckless, everything. Yeah. Just all three attacks, just hitting it--
Matt: Great Weaponmaster as well, or not?
Travis: It's not really a great weapon.
Matt: Two-handed, versatile means you can hold it with two hands.
Travis: Oh yeah?
Matt: Pretty sure that's how it works. I'll check real fast.
Travis: It's just a hammer, it's not like a greatsword or a greataxe. I thought maybe it was--
Matt: I'll double-check the wording, just to be safe.
Taliesin: You'll decrease the resale value of these books with how much you've been cracking the spines tonight. I'm just saying.
Matt: Oh, it's a heavy weapon. Not-- so yeah, you cannot. You were right.
Travis: I'll make 'em Reckless, though. All three.
Laura: (sings) My honest husband.
Travis: 29.
Matt: 29.
Travis: Hits, right?
Matt: Just gonna double-check, 'cause the internet's gonna get angry at me.
Travis: I'm just gonna roll the damage.
Matt: 29 hits.
Travis: First is a 20.
Matt: 20 points of damage?
Travis: Second one is a 22.
Matt: 22, hits.
Travis: Hits? Okay, good.
Laura: Don't.
Travis: 24 points of damage.
Matt: 24 points of damage, all righty.
Travis: Last one is a natural 20. (all cheer)
Matt: Roll damage.
Sam: Oh my Jesus.
Travis: That's a ten, that's 44, and that's seven, so that's 51 points of damage. 51 points of damage to it.
Matt: That, in its own attack, is enough to make its constitution saving throw. Let's see if it-- That is a four! Plus 15 is 19, is not enough to make its constitution saving throw. It vomits Grog and an unconscious Vax--
Marisha: Oh, thank God.
Matt: -- out in the front.
Marisha: Fucking hell.
Taliesin: Got to get a healing potion in that guy stat.
Matt: Jesus Christ, guys, you're killing me.
Laura: (groans)
Taliesin: Get it, get it in him.
Matt: So, Grog, it's you, you still have your movement.
Travis: I do have my movement--
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: I am going to-- it's such a short shitty movement--
Laura: You better fucking heal him.
Travis: -- can I just rotate around him towards the door and stay within.
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: As far as I can get.
Matt: 25, you can get there.
Travis: Halved, yep.
Taliesin: Ah, fuck.
Matt: All right, ending Grog's turn, Taryon.
Sam: Ah, wait, is Little Elf Boy alive?
Matt: No.
Laura: No, he's unconscious.
Matt: He's unconscious with two failed death saving throws--
Sam: And Grog just ran away from him?
Marisha: But he's out of the kraken, he's out of the kraken.
Laura: Grog can't do anything.
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: But if you can heal him for a point--
Sam: Nope.
Taliesin: In any way possible--
Sam: Nope.
Taliesin: Okay.
Sam: Nope (laughs). Can't do it.
Taliesin: This is not good, people.
Liam: True love's kiss?
Taliesin: I am very far away, right now.
Matt: There you go, Sam.
Sam: Is it my turn?
Liam: I just mean Sam.
Sam: I mean, that I would love to do.
Liam: Again.
Sam: (nervous noises) Nope, I got nothing. Prismatic Spray will kill everybody else-- ring of the ram's dead-- I can't throw anything that far, right? He's like 40 feet away from me?
Matt: Yep, no, you're right over here you're-- what would Taryon do at this moment?
Sam: 50 feet away? How far am I?
Matt: You're about 50 feet from him, yeah.
Marisha: You have a bag, right?
Sam: I can't throw something 50 feet underwater, and I can only move 15 feet.
Marisha: But you can swim out-- oh.
Sam: (laughs) There's very little I can do--
Marisha: But you can double your movement.
Sam: I will say "crossbow" and change my thing, my rod, into a crossbow--
Matt: Uh-huh.
Sam: And nock the poison bolt and shoot it.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: Sure, I'll say-- all right, so--
Laura: Look at that, look at that poison bolt.
Sam: I'll also move 15 feet--
Matt: There you go, go ahead and make your attack with disadvantage.
Sam: Okay. (mock-sobbing) It was a one. (all laugh)
Matt: You pull it back and fire and it goes (kerplunk) and the bolt just goes and floats up and you're like, "Shit".
Travis: Wow. Wow.
Sam: But when I moved Matt, I want to move toward it, not away.
Matt: Okay, so you'll be--
Taliesin: I'm gonna get you a new d20 soon.
Matt: All right. Ending Tary's turn, Vax, death saving throw, with advantage.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: With no Luck left?
Marisha: What what what no? No? Nothing? No luck? Come on.
Travis: Wow.
Marisha: Raven Queen shit? Nothing?
Travis: Wow. Really?
Matt: The last bit of air escapes the lungs of Vax, lifeless on the ground. All right. That ends your turn, obviously, Keyleth.
Marisha: Oh my God.
Travis: What the fuck?
Sam: The kraken.
Marisha: Who do I see?
Matt: You're right here on the ground, you see Vax not moving. You see Vex currently grappled inside there, and Grog and everyone rushing in this direction towards the portal.
Marisha: Vex is grappled, Vax is dead, and then there's me. How close am I to Vex and Vax?
Matt: You are ten feet from Vax and 15 feet from Vex, or ten feet from each, actually.
Marisha: I'm ten feet from each?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Can I swim with my Alter Self, grab both of them-- Can I do that? Can I grab both of them?
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: With my swim speed--
Matt: All right.
Marisha: -- Alter Self. Yeah?
Matt: You can, you can grab--
Marisha: In between them.
Matt: You can grab Vax-- and begin to tug him toward Vex at half speed so that's five, ten--
Marisha: No I've got Alter Self! I've got Alter Self!
Matt: Right, but you're--
Laura: You're tugging--
Matt: -- you're dragging him behind you as you go.
Marisha: Come on, man, do I have Vex--
Matt: Five, ten, 15, 20, 25, 30--
Marisha: 30.
Matt: You're like just in the space.
Marisha: (gasps)
Matt: What're you trying to do?
Marisha: And I cast, I cast Plane Shift and I get us out of here--
Matt: Oh shit! Okay. All right. And with that, the three of you vanish.
Marisha: Sorry, everyone else.
Sam: The three of you, wait, you, who, and who?
Matt: The shark vanishes.
Sam: Oh, the shark.
Travis: Who just vanished?
Marisha: Me, Vex, and Vax--
Taliesin: Everyone but you--
Matt: Plane Shifting where?
Marisha: It's you and Taryon left. Get the fuck out.
Travis: Where are you going?
Matt: Plane Shifting where, Keyleth?
Marisha: Back to Vesrah.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: We're out of the portal.
Matt: All right. They vanish. Grog. All right, so that finishes Keyleth's turn. Top of the scale here, I need both of you guys to make dexterity saving throws.
Marisha: Wait, who? Who?
Matt: Grog and Taryon.
Travis: And I have advantage.
Marisha: Wait, Grog is dead?
All: No!
Laura: Dexterity!
Matt: Dexterity.
Taliesin: Dexterity saving throw.
Sam: 18.
Matt: 18, all right, you take eight points of lightning damage--
Marisha: I thought you said death.
Matt: Grog?
Travis: 17.
Matt: That is eight points--
Travis: With resistance?
Matt: Yeah, reduced to four.
Travis: Okay, so just four.
Matt: All right, Percival.
Marisha: Wait, wait, are you grappled?
Sam: It's fine, you're not there.
Laura: Nobody else is grappled right now.
Taliesin: You're not there.
Liam: You're gone, you're gone. You're chill with me.
Marisha: Nobody else is grappled.
Taliesin: I'm-- There is nothing I can do.
Matt: All right. End of your turn, the last legendary action to attempt to grab and grapple Grog.
Marisha: (groans)
Matt: With advantage, because you--
Travis: That's right.
Liam: Fuck you, kraken.
Matt: That is 26.
Travis: That hits.
Sam: (exasperated sigh) Fuck.
Matt: You take nine-- ten points of bludgeoning damage, being reduced, and you are grappled.
Travis: To five? Oh, ten is reduced?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: Whew!
Travis: And can I make my Retaliatory?
Matt: You can.
Sam: On that tentacle!
Travis: Reckless. 23.
Matt: 23 hits, go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: That is also a 23.
Matt: 23, that one had taken 13 damage earlier. That tentacle is destroyed. There is one left.
Travis: I'm not grappled?
Matt: You are no longer grappled. There is one slightly damaged tentacle left. As you do so, the voice says, "No. Come, join your end here in the depths." All right, that ends your Retaliation, Percy's, it is now-- Wait, so that was Percy's turn, right?
Taliesin: I already, I just--
Marisha: Can't do anything
Taliesin: -- there's literally nothing I can do.
Travis: Yeah, he didn't do anything.
Matt: Right, okay. It's gonna come forward here, it's gonna do Lightning Storm against both of you. I need both Taryon and Grog to make dexterity saving throws once more.
Travis: That's good.
Sam: 18.
Travis: 20. No more blessed.
Liam: Hashtag no more blessed.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Yeah, hashtag no more blessed.
Laura: Hashtag so not blessed.
Matt: That is a really shitty roll. 13 points lightning damage--
Sam: Dead.
Matt: -- 13 points lightning damage.
Laura: Unconscious.
Travis: 20 and resistance for me.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: So it was? Sorry.
Matt: It was 13 minus that to--
Laura: Tary--
Matt: -- seven.
Travis: Seven.
Matt: So Taryon falls unconscious.
Laura: Motherfuck.
Liam: Scanlan appears in a purple puff of smoke!
Matt: I know.
Travis: Are you really? Are you really? Where are you?
Sam: He's right near you.
Marisha: So both Vex and Tary are unconscious?
Matt: So, Grog, it's your turn.
Sam: You don't even like me.
Travis: I'm gonna take the coin--
Marisha: You're unconscious?
Liam: She's with us.
Laura: You took me!
Liam: You just bamfed us out.
Travis: -- I'm gonna Alter Self.
Marisha: Wait, who's unconscious?
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Tary!
Liam: Tary!
Travis: I'm gonna grow gills and fins.
Sam: Wait! Sh! He's doing stuff.
Matt: Okay. So the gills and fins appear, your webbed fingers, and what're you doing?
Travis: I see Tary fall... and I... ... bolt for the portal.
Laura: (gasps)
Sam: Going right past me.
Travis: Yep.
Laura: Oh, fuck.
Taliesin: I am staring you in the deadeye--
Sam: I love it. I love it.
Travis: And can I, can I like--
Marisha: We need, he has a purse.
Travis: -- can I like double my speed?
Matt: No, unfortunately, because you used your action to do the ability on you, however-- Oh! Wait, wait, you have the-- so you have the full movement--
Travis: I do.
Sam: Full movement?
Travis: That's right, 50.
Taliesin: We need the-- (sigh) we need the fucking lodestone.
Laura: Oh he's--
Laura: -- got the other lodestone.
Sam: -- got the other lodestone.
Laura: He does have the third lodestone!
Sam: Fuck you guys.
Travis: Do I make it to the portal?
Matt: You are just on the outskirts of it. And you see Percy yelling at you.
Taliesin: Lodestone!
Travis: What? Oh! (all laugh)
Travis: Right.
Laura: Oh, that was a great way to ensure that you got out of here, Tary. (all laugh)
Matt: All right, coming through at 20, Grog, I need you to make a dexterity saving throw.
Liam: Come on, girl. Get out.
Travis: 19.
Matt: That is 10 reduced to five, five points of lightning damage against you. Taryon, you fail a death saving throw--
Sam: Sure.
Matt: -- automatically 'cause you take the damage from the lightning.
Taliesin: How far is Tary from the-- how many feet is Tary from the portal?
Matt: Tary is--
Sam: 50?
Matt: 40 feet.
Taliesin: 40 feet?
Matt: Yep.
Taliesin: What's my running speed?
Marisha: Get out, get out.
Taliesin: What's my running speed?
Matt: Your running speed is 30.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: All right, Percival, what're you doing?
Marisha: Get out, get out, get out.
Sam: You can dash and get 60.
Taliesin: (deep sigh) God damn it.
Marisha: You still have the coin, right?
Taliesin: I've already taken it.
Sam: Your potion of haste.
Travis: Don't complicate this.
Taliesin: I don't have a potion of haste!
Sam: Yeah, sure you do.
Travis: Don't complicate this, I think we'll be okay. I think.
Matt: Percival, what are you doing?
Taliesin: I have a healing potion. I have a healing potion.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Fuck.
Marisha: Come on, Percy.
Taliesin: I don't know what the fuck to do.
Liam: That's the title for the episode.
Sam: What's your speed?
Taliesin: 60.
Sam: Yeah, so go over there and heal me, fucker! (all laugh)
Taliesin: Yeah, I'm not going to survive one round in there. I'm 16 points.
Sam: Oh, okay, I will.
Taliesin: Yeah, there's no-- is Grog looking rough?
Matt: Grog, how are you looking?
Travis: I'm okay.
Taliesin: You're looking fine?
Travis: I'm all right.
Taliesin: I'm just going to scowl at you. I'm actually, fuck it! I have something I can do!
Matt: What are you doing?
Sam: Science bros, man!
Matt: What are you doing, Percy?
Taliesin: I'm gonna cast Friends on Grog.
Matt: Grog. Make a wisdom saving throw. With advantage, because of Heroes' Feast.
Travis: I don't even know what that is.
Liam: Wow.
Travis: Three. Five. Zero modifier.
Liam: Holy shit.
Travis: I don't know what that is.
Liam: Love this game.
Matt: Actually, it's supposed to be charisma checks against him. What are you trying to do?
Taliesin: Just toss the nitwit through the door!
Matt: Wait, are you trying to intimidate him?
Taliesin: No, I'm begging!
Matt: All right. Make a persuasion check with advantage. That's how technically it's supposed to work.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: But, I'm giving you--
Travis: Through the water?
Taliesin: With advantage, that was cocked, though, was it?
Sam: That's a 20.
Taliesin: Okay. Yeah, it was 20.
Matt: 20? Okay.
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Matt: Okay, Grog. You come through and see Percy looking at you, and oh shit, you don't wanna make him mad. He's your buddy.
Taliesin: Toss the nitwit through the door.
Travis: The nitwit. That's-- okay.
Taliesin: Yeah. I'm good. I'm good.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I love you. I'm so proud of you.
Laura: What just happened?
Travis: The nitwit.
Taliesin: That's what I said.
Travis: Who do you think I'd think the nitwit is?
Taliesin: I think it's--
Marisha: Grog.
Taliesin: I can't take it back, what I said. I'm well aware.
Matt: All right.
Sam: (sings along with the background music)
Taliesin: I can start to argue with you if you start to do something stupid, which is fine.
Travis: You did cast Friends, so. Technically, I would think nitwit is me, and I'd be like, okay, here I go.
Taliesin: You might. I'm not gonna--
Sam: Why don't you roll for it, Travis?
Travis: No, he cast Friends, and the whole point is to-- yeah.
Liam: You don't know that.
Travis: Yeah, that's a DM call. It's not quite my call.
Matt: The kraken is going to go ahead and make a bite attack against you.
Taliesin: Ah, god damn it.
Matt: Because it only has the one tentacle left. That is an 18 plus six, that is 24. That hits you. You take--
Taliesin: Oh, shit.
Matt: That's 23 points of piercing damage.
Travis: How many?
Matt: 23. Reduced to 12 because of your raging. And you are-- oh, you were not grappled by the kraken. So it does not swallow you. (all cheer)
Matt: That saves your ass there, man. I was just about to eat you. Okay. Been good for you guys. Yeah, that's the kraken's turn. Grog, what are you doing?
Travis: I am going to aquaman run over to Tary.
Taliesin: You have full speed now.
Travis: Yep.
Taliesin: So you can double-speed if you want.
Matt: Well, it's 25 there. It's gonna take an action to pick him up.
Travis: Maybe I just wanna grab the bag.
Laura: He said nitwit, throw the nitwit through the door.
Matt: What do you want to do, Grog? It's your call.
Taliesin: I'm not gonna fight you no matter what.
Matt: Yeah, what do you wanna do, Grog?
Travis: He cast Friends, right? So I wouldn't want to make Percy mad.
Matt: Well, it's up to you. Friends affects him more than it affects you, technically. He just seems very persuasive.
Taliesin: You feel like I had a point.
Travis: I pick up Tary.
Matt: Okay. Moving back with him, because your strength doesn't reduce your movement. (counts) 25. You don't quite reach the edge.
Laura: Can he throw Tary through? Or is that an additional action?
Travis: Do I have anything to toss him through that thing?
Matt: No, it takes your whole-- to pick him up and get there, you only have your bonus action right now.
Travis: Can I take one of the tiny little healing potions, the regular-ass ones?
Matt: If you have one, yeah.
Travis: I have one.
Matt: So there you go. You take it.
Travis: I forget what it's called.
Liam: Red Bull.
Matt: It's 2d4 plus two.
Laura: It's a Red Bull.
Travis: 2d4 plus two?
Matt: 2d4 plus two. Ends Grog's turn. Taryon. Make a death saving throw.
Sam: 11?
Matt: 11. So you're fine.
Taliesin: That's one good one. You get a success.
Matt: That brings us up to the top.
Taliesin: Is it mine?
Matt: Not quite yet.
Taliesin: Fuck.
Matt: We are at the 20.
Laura: Lair actions.
Taliesin: God damn it.
Matt: All right. That's a dexterity saving throw from you, Grog. It's just all-out shocking.
Travis: 16.
Matt: 16. That is 14 points of lightning damage to you, Grog.
Travis: Halved to seven.
Matt: Yep, halved to seven.
Sam: Automatic death fail.
Matt: Automatic death fail. All right, that brings us now to Percival.
Taliesin: I am just going to lean out the fucking door and take three attacks at a tentacle and run back in.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Since he's right there!
Matt: Well, currently there is no tentacle in your range.
Taliesin: There's no tentacle in the range?
Matt: Right now, the tentacle's in range when it's wrapped around somebody, you can hit it right there. Right now, it's just in the distance.
Taliesin: In that case, I'm going to run out, grab and help drag everybody through the portal if I can.
Matt: You can grab and pull Taryon.
Taliesin: Be cool.
Travis: Pssh. We'll see--
Taliesin: You're going to be fine.
Travis: --Friend.
Taliesin: You won't know for a while.
Travis: We'll find out.
Matt: You pull Taryon through, his unconscious body through.
Taliesin: And I'm-- healing potion. I've got a minor.
Matt: You have a healing potion?
Taliesin: I do. I've got a minor left that I haven't burned.
Matt: Okay. So, I'll say that between your movement, you'll have enough. Go ahead and 2d4 plus two to Taryon.
Taliesin: 2d4 plus what?
Matt: 2d4 plus two to Taryon.
Taliesin: So that's six.
Matt: Taryon is conscious.
Taliesin: Now, I'm standing at the portal ready to, yeah.
Matt: All right. It is now the kraken's turn.
Laura: Oh my god.
Taliesin: He got nothing.
Matt: The kraken is going to sit right here now, directly behind you, Grog. Its tentacles swarm. It's the one tentacle, all these broken tentacles that are trying to extend. You can see parts of it are regenerating and starting to extend a little bit. Not fully, but it's going to take a while for it-- but you can see it does regenerate over time.
Travis: That is a bad, bad creature.
Matt: You know what, at the end of Percival's turn, it's going to use one of its legendary actions.
Taliesin: God damn it!
Matt: To attempt to bash.
Travis: I don't know what that means.
Matt: Natural 20.
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: So that is 17 points of bludgeoning damage against you, reduced to half.
Travis: To eight? Nine?
Matt: That would be nine, yeah. And, you are grappled.
Marisha: He's grappled?
Matt: Now it's the kraken's turn.
Laura: I think it's going to try to swallow him.
Matt: And it is going to attempt to bite attack you. It does not have advantage. That is a 20?
Travis: That hits.
Taliesin: God fucking damn it!
Matt: That is 18 points of piercing damage, reduced to nine.
Travis: Mm-hm.
Matt: And you are swallowed.
Taliesin: God fucking damn it. Okay.
Sam: So you get any attacks, Groggy? Mm-hm? Okay.
Matt: All righty. Grog, it's your turn.
Travis: All three attacks--
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: -- Reckless. That's a 32.
Taliesin: Things!
Sam: I can heal you!
Travis: It's 20 points of damage on the first one.
Matt: All right, 20.
Travis: 26 is the hit for the second one.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: 24 points of damage on the second one.
Matt: 24, all right.
Travis: And then 23.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: With 19 points of damage on the third one.
Matt: It has to make a constitution save. That is directly a nine plus 15. It's a 24; the DC is 25. It fails, and vomits you out again to the front of it! Jesus Christ!
Laura: Right through the door! Vomits him right through the door!
Marisha: Come on, through the door! He projectile vomits!
Matt: I'm going to take a picture of that so people--
Marisha: Come on!
Matt: -- are like, "That's a little too close."
Travis: With the rest of my movement, can I turn around and look at him and go, yo, O Ancient One, can you read my mind now? And I walk through the portal.
Matt: And you do as you step away through the portal. (laughs) I can't believe that shit!
Travis: Just double birds.
Matt: I just tweeted that final saving throw on his end. Wow!
Taliesin: I hand you my glasses and fall down.
Matt: And that's where we're going to end tonight's game. Jesus Christ! Jesus Christ!
Sam: That was terrible!
Matt: Don't fuck with the titan creatures, man! Hey, your first death, Vax!
Travis: Titan creatures? Titan creatures.
Sam: First death? He's dead! That's not good!
Marisha: He's still fucking dead!
Matt: Yep.
Marisha: He's still fucking dead.
Liam: May be my last death.
Marisha: God!
Travis: We don't know. We don't know.
Taliesin: I think he should just--
Matt: And if so, that's at the bailiwick of your Queen. But we'll find out where that brings us next week. One way or another, a climactic end to the Aramente.
Laura: Oh my god.
Marisha: And all of the guilt complexes.
Travis: Wow. I underestimated that whole thing.
Laura: That was so much worse than I ever thought it would be.
Taliesin: I don't feel good.
Laura: I feel like I'm going to throw up.
Taliesin: Yeah, I feel a little nauseous, and it's not just the kraken.
Travis: Thank you, Loot Crate!
Matt: Thank you, Loot Crate, for being our sponsor!
Taliesin: Thanks, Loot Crate, for the robot and the Legos.
Marisha: Who's still alive? All of us, but Vax and Taryon?
Laura: Everybody but Vax.
Matt: How many points did you have at the end there, Grog?
Travis: Eight.
Matt: Eight hit points?!
Travis: Eight hit points.
Matt: Holy fucking shit!
Laura: Yeah! I was watching him take it down, and I was like, oh my god, one more hit and Grog's unconscious!
Travis: 65, 61, 51, 44, 39, 27, 33, 26, 17, eight.
Liam: Wow. Wow!
Travis: If I didn't get barfed, we would have problems.
Taliesin: I was going to make a running, yeah. I was not willing to, yeah. I was not going to walk.
Laura: You would have been swallowed, too.
Taliesin: I had a thought, but it was a bad thought. I'm really glad I didn't have to go with that bad thought.
Laura: Oh, I feel so sick!
Travis: I guess Tary lives another day.
Sam: I've learned a lesson! Always carry an insurance policy with me.
Matt: Fair enough.
Taliesin: I want to cry.
Matt: Well, guys, well done! You got the lodestones and escaped with the body of Vax, though dead. Had that last death saving throw happened in the stomach of the kraken, there was no way you were getting back.
Laura: So, that's good.
Sam: So, in a way, we won!
Matt: That's a silver lining. Anyway, guys, thank you for sticking through a very long, climactic, intense battle, both players and viewers. Thank you, Lootcrate, for being our awesome sponsor.
Travis: Thank you, Lootcrate!
Matt: We'll be back next week to see the conclusion of this Aramente arc. Much love to you all, and is it Thursday yet?
Travis: Not for another week!
Matt: See you guys soon. [art]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone! And welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons. (cheering)
Matt: Indeed. Tonight, we are sadly down one Sam Riegel, because apparently he has priorities.
Laura: Where is he?
Matt: I actually don't know.
Liam: Watching his kids!
Laura: Is that where he's at?
Liam: I don't know where he is.
Laura: I don't know where he is.
Matt: That's weird. Well--
Marisha: Oh, man, I feel like he told us. (laughter)
Marisha: You know? I just don't remember where he is--
Laura: What is his mother's name!?
Marisha: What is his mother's name!?
Laura: It's Lenore! I know it. It's Scanlan's mom--
Marisha: You don't care about his past!
Taliesin: What am I doing Thursday night!? (laughter)
Travis: It's not that we don't remember, we just don't care.
Taliesin: (laughs) Yeah.
Matt: Well, Sam, wherever you are, you're not watching, so you'll never hear this anyway. (laughter)
Matt: But we love you.
Travis: It's true. That's hilarious because it's true.
Matt: Before we get into tonight's episode, let's get through a few announcements here. First and foremost, tonight we have the delight of being sponsored by our returning friends Puzzle Quest! (cheering)
Matt: Puzzle Quest, they're not pushing anything in particular, but we're wanting to talk about a bit how they're just-- their Marvel Puzzle Quest is awesome. I've been playing Puzzle Quest since it first came out. I remember spending many angry hours on Xbox Live, getting my ass kicked by people in Puzzle Quest when it first came there. But Taliesin, did you have anything you wanted to say?
Travis: It's a big anniversary for them.
Taliesin: Yeah, it's Puzzle Quest's ten-year anniversary.
Laura: Wow, really?
Taliesin: Yeah, and gosh, golly. Puzzle Quest. Marvel. Marvel Puzzle Quest. Marvel and Puzzle Quest.
Marisha: You're not Sam Riegel.
Taliesin: I'm not Sam Riegel!
Marisha: You're not Sam Riegel.
Taliesin: I'm doing my best! I was just given this! I thought he was going to be here! We brought his things out. I thought he was going to be here! And now I have this, and I have to somehow--
Travis: Can you just play on his harmonica, or something?
Taliesin: I'm not touching that. I know where it's been.
Liam: It's a hard truth that only one of us is irreplaceable.
Taliesin: That's so true.
Matt: This is true.
Laura: It's sad.
Taliesin: I can say that I do love comic books. I love three-jewel replacement games that I can play on airplanes--
Liam: And Marvel.
Taliesin: -- and when I wanna pretend to listen to my family over Christmas. It's great.
Marisha: You're killing it, man.
Taliesin: I know, and I suddenly realised a couple of them watch the show, and now they know that I'm not really texting you guys.
Liam: Taliesin pulls out a curly blonde wig and--
Matt: And starts jamming candy bars in his mouth.
Laura: Shaka, man, oh yeah. (laughter)
Taliesin: But, Marvel Puzzle Quest is great, because it's all the fun of the three-gem, Bejeweled-style games, but you would also collect characters if you're a big nerd like I am, and they've got basics like Thor and Iron Man, and new fun ones, like Ms. Marvel, and--
Laura: What about Black Widow? Do they have Black Widow?
Taliesin: They have Black Widow.
Laura: Hell yeah, they do.
Taliesin: Black Widow is actually one of the first ones I ever got, but they've also got crazy ones-- they've got Devil Dinosaur. That's nuts.
Matt: That's pretty intense, actually.
Marisha: It's pretty nuts.
Matt: Do they have Slapstick?
Taliesin: I'm even more embarrassed that I know you now. It was already bad. This is why you're never going to be on my show, Matt.
Matt: (cries) I know.
Taliesin: Ooh. You're never going to be on my show because you don't have time. I know. (laughter)
Matt: That's exactly why.
Taliesin: But yeah. Marvel Puzzle Quest. Thank you guys. You can get it on Steam, Amazon App Store, Google Play, Apple Store-- it's all over the place.
Laura: Yay, thanks, Marvel Puzzle Quest!
Liam: Next up!
Matt: We have any merch updates? Or are we just still kicking ass in the store?
Laura: (high-pitched) Hey, there's stuff in the store, you guys! You should go look in the store and see what is there.
Matt: Perfect. Thank you, Laura.
Laura: You're welcome.
Matt: That was adorable. We have Wondercon coming up! Which we're excited about. It's for you guys who are able to come to Wondercon, Anaheim, California, April 1st on Saturday, we're having our Talks Machina live panel from 2-3PM in the Arena, the big room there, and--
Travis: Come to Anaheim, 4,000 seats!
Marisha: Yeah, big seats!
Matt: Trying to fill the room.
Taliesin: Comfy seats.
Matt: Because if we manage to fill the room, we can use that as an example as to why we have good crowds, and we can hopefully do more events in more places in the country, or around the world! And see you guys in person.
Travis: We want to see everyone within a reasonable driving or flying distance.
Liam: Also, Taliesin and I are going to fistfight until one of us is dead or unconscious.
Marisha: I'm going to break a pool cue.
Taliesin: While drunk.
Matt: That's new. I didn't--
Laura: It's going to be epic.
Matt: Okay! So that's a thing.
Travis: Just roll with it.
Matt: See that-- yeah.
Liam: Got a lot of pent-up aggression, Tal.
Taliesin: I'm ready.
Matt: Perfect.
Taliesin: I want a bruise, right here.
Matt: April 1st.
Marisha: (laughs) I want a bruise.
Matt: 2PM at Wondercon, our panel, and--
Taliesin: Critical Brawl. We just barefist it.
Marisha: Man.
Matt: Speaking of Taliesin unconscious-- Wednesday Club!
Taliesin: Oh, god! That's right.
Travis: (laughs) Great one.
Taliesin: We had a great time this week talking about Swamp Thing and horror comics. Next week, we're going to be talking vaguely about DC Comics; everything from Superman, Batman, Wonder Woman, Flash, Green Lantern, Aquaman, the whole set of them and all the weirdness, and talking about 52, what it is, why people seemed weird about it and why people are coming back to read it now. Like a brief overlook on everything DC Comics. It's going to be fun.
Marisha: It was a weird time.
Taliesin: Yeah, it was a weird time. It's getting cooler now.
Marisha: I feel like when people talk about DC Comics, they just only vaguely talk about DC Comics these days.
Taliesin: We're gonna try and see how many euphemisms we can-- We're going to talk about it like, "I know you think this is a new dog, but it's really the same dog, he's just better now." Yeah, we're working on it.
Matt: And Signal Boost. Our good friend of the show, David Nett, actually, his episode just went up today. David Nett, who is an amazing dungeon master. You can actually see him on Round Table, the new show that just hopped up on Alpha. He's also our trainer, who's been kicking our ass in the gym.
Marisha: He's our personal trainer. We did a Hamilton work-out yesterday. Oh man, it was so cool.
Matt: Four sets of core sets.
Taliesin: Did you take your shots?
Marisha: Well, I rised up when doing squats.
Matt: And Peggy, not happy to be there. Perfect.
Marisha: And if you go to iTunes, you can get the Signal Boost ringtone for your phone and it's pretty great. Also, we have another surprise coming next week that I'm pretty stoked about, but you have to wait. No one probably cares. But I care.
Laura: I'm so excited!
Matt: I'm so excited! I'm so excited! I'm so scared! For those who don't know what that is, you're young. (laughter)
Travis: YouTube it!
Matt: All right. Also, today was the episode of CelebriD&D.
Laura: Oh yay!
Matt: There's a preview on YouTube and the full episode's on Alpha right now. Hopefully they'll bring it out down the road. With Joe Manganiello, who is legitimately an awesome guy. We got to know him pretty well through the process and he's a huge old-school RPG-- like, he GM'd GURPS and Rifts for years in the late 80s in a little comic shop. I would never have guessed. We nerded out extremely hard. He's one of my new favorite people.
Marisha: He's pretty cool.
Matt: So check it out. We had a good time.
Marisha: And he had a cool hat.
Matt: He had a cool hat and a fun character. And he got to play with a younger Keyleth and Percival in a one-shot that is technically Exandria-canon.
Marisha: I was much happier.
Taliesin: I was not.
Marisha: No.
Taliesin: You were. I was not.
Matt: And, of course, next Tuesday you can come and see some of us as well as our fantastic host, Brian Wayne Foster, on Talks Machina, Tuesday at 7PM, here on Twitch or Alpha. And don't forget to check that out. It will be about this episode. Now, lest I am mistaken, I think we're done. And that means it's time--
Taliesin: No!
Laura: No! No! Hey, look at this cool dice bag I have, it's got a bear!
Matt: -- to start tonight's episode of Critical Role.
Laura: Damn it. [opening credits]
Matt: Hello and welcome back, everybody. Nice one, Laura. Well done. So, bringing us into tonight's episode. Last we left off, Vox Machina, after completing their assault and destruction of the Chroma Conclave, they're tying up loose ends, various adventure hooks and dangers they'd left out in the open from earlier or during that whole adventure. After taking Keyleth to Vesrah to take her final trial of the Aramente, her long, many-year journey to prove her ability to lead her people, the Air Ashari, you returned to Zephra. Met her father, expressed that the trial was complete, and the ceremony took place in which Keyleth was given the mantle and officially titled as the Voice of the Tempest, the now-standing leader of the Air Ashari. Which, by the way, I'm supposed to give you this.
Marisha: What? Was that the thing?
Matt: That's the thing.
Laura: You get another thing?!
Marisha: I think this is my leadership thing. Yeah?
Matt: You have your leadership feat.
Laura: That's your mantle!
Matt: It's your mantle.
Marisha: I get another thing?!
Matt: It's nothing crazy. But it's fun.
Laura: Wait. Is it a cloak? Don't you already have a cloak on?
Taliesin: It's a mantle, it only goes to here.
Marisha: I gave that cloak to Kerr--
Liam: Rothfuss jacked that cloak.
Marisha: -- who wore it away.
Matt: (laughs) Rothfuss jacked that cloak.
Taliesin: I like to think there's a piece of paper like pinned to his wall right now.
Matt: He has the stats up there as a reminder? Framed? Please do that if you haven't already, Pat, please. So, after the ceremony is completed--
Marisha: What?!
Taliesin: Sorry, we're good. Carry on.
Travis: Perfect timing.
Liam: Rehearsal paid off. (laughter)
Taliesin: Don't feed them.
Matt: After the crowning, the ceremony coming to a close, the evening's celebration kicks off and as the setting sun begins to darken the sky, the people of Zephra are now bringing out foods and treats and cakes, and they're putting up ribbons of blue and white and gold on some of the nearby trees and doorways. And the folks of the Air Ashari tribe now are in the process of enjoying both the return of their people and the fact that there is now a clear head of leadership, and you guys are now surrounded, basking in the afterglow of the event as well as deciding with slow-rising tension what you have as the next step in your journey. So, what would you guys like to do?
Travis: Charge headlong into danger with no lessons having been learned from the previous sessions.
Marisha: Like it's day one. Vox Machina, let's do this!
Travis: Naked and running in full steam.
Liam: Like right now?
Travis: Yeah. No Vestiges, no nothing.
Liam: That would be the best end to that ceremony. Peace.
Marisha: It's our save game plus.
Laura: But can I go talk to Keyleth, actually? I did want to ask you--
Marisha: Yeah?
Laura: Are you allowed to leave? How does this work, exactly?
Marisha: I mean, I'm the chief. I can do whatever I want, right? I don't know, actually.
Laura: Should we talk to your dad?
Marisha: I should maybe talk to Dad.
Laura: All right.
Marisha: Yeah. I go talk to Dad. (laughter)
Matt: Okay. And wherever you walk now, because you have the mantle upon you and you have the cascading autumn-colored leaf cloak that flows behind you, it still seems very ceremonial in this jovial, party-based atmosphere. And as you move, you still can't help but notice that all eyes are on you at any given point in time. People seem generally excited that you've returned and that you've taken up this position. Eventually you make your way off where you can see there are a handful of the older, the more elder members of the Zephra tribe. They're around Korren currently, who notices you approach and shushes them all for a moment, turns to you, "Ah, Keyleth, my daughter. How can I help you?"
Marisha: Korren, I was wondering if I could have a word with you for a minute?
Matt: "Of course. You do realise that you can still call me father. I mean, I know you're the leader, but--"
Marisha: Can I? Is that allowed? I don't really know.
Matt: He puts his hand up and puts his arm around your shoulder and guides you off away from the chaos of the celebration. You hear the whistling of music and flutes and thin tanner drums going off in the distance. And as it fades the further off you guys walk in the direction of the tree where the ceremony took place-- (something falls in the background)
Matt: "Oh, sorry."
Marisha: You should fire that guy.
Matt: "I will."
Marisha: Shitty servants.
Matt: "It's very windy up here. Don't worry about it."
Marisha: Yes, that's true.
Matt: As you walk further away towards the tree, he takes his arm off from around your shoulder and says, "Now, I understand you have many questions and we've prepared you as much as we could leading up to this journey you've gone on, but now you're here."
Marisha: I guess.
Matt: "Primarily, the people of Zephra look to you for guidance when choices are hard, difficult."
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: "You are the acting head of law, like I've been all this time. If there is conflict, if there is difficulty, if there is a challenge that presents itself, that requires the wisdom of a leader to step in--"
Marisha: Right.
Matt: "That's when you're called upon."
Marisha: So, (sighs) I'm confused. Was the Aramente my training to be a leader? You apparently prepared me as best as you could before I left, I don't know how well you all did (sarcastic laugh). So I'm just wondering if I need to expect that again, is this just me figuring this out again? Or do I have guidance?
Matt: "The nature of the Aramente is fluid. I have not taken it as I am not the leader. It is tradition and it is both, as far as I understand, a series of challenges and lessons tailored to whatever a person seems to be seeking or what you can draw from that, but also to interface with the other tribes and establish that connection between all the leaderships."
Marisha: I did that (laughs). You're right, you haven't taken it, but that's been about 5% of my journey, all of the lessons that I've learned have been in the in-between.
Matt: "That is part of the Aramente itself."
Marisha: I know. I guess... I don't know. Just trying to figure out how to navigate this, like the leader I'm expected to be. You know, Dad, you didn't tell me a lot about the world and sometimes I think I get angry at you for that.
Matt: "You're not wrong to have these thoughts."
Marisha: Why didn't you tell me that the world could be so cruel and mean? Why did you never tell me that?
Matt: "We tried, but you can only tell someone so much. Do you not think we spent days warning you of the dangers and difficulty? We didn't thrust you out in the world with a smile, going 'have fun.' We told you it was challenging, we warned you of the people you might interface with that you couldn't trust. And for the first legs of it, we had a few scouts keeping an eye."
Marisha: What?
Matt: "Just to make sure you were safe."
Marisha: Okay. It just sounds like it was advice coming from people who didn't really fully know.
Matt: "To be fair, when every parent has a child come of age, you can only coddle them so far. Every bird has to be kicked out of the nest for it to learn to fly. Not because we want to, but because that's how things are."
Marisha: I know, and I thank you for that. I guess I'm just wondering what's next. Now what?
Matt: "Now, as leader of these people, you go and learn how best we can establish ourselves in this countryside. Where once we-- (sighs) Gwessar, or Tal'Dorei as the humans call it, all of our civilizations are merging. Isolation that we've relied upon is becoming less and less viable."
Marisha: I agree.
Matt: "And so part of, I think, what you have already begun, is finding a way to bring not just the Ashari, but Zephra as well, necessary friendships and allies."
Marisha: Our people need to be connected to the rest of the world that we've sworn to protect. I understand the need for our isolation but I often wonder if we had a few close allies on alert, if the Thordak incident might've have gone a little bit differently.
Matt: "I agree."
Marisha: I still need time, with Vox Machina. We still have things we need to complete. And then I promise I will return.
Matt: "All right. Come back. Do what you need to. You're not bound to this mountain. Just know that your heart is here, and we'll call for you if we need you. And when you're not needed beyond it, this is your home."
Marisha: Thanks, Dad.
Matt: "I'm proud of you." And his professional exterior falls away and he just steps forward and gives you a big, warm, fatherly embrace and just holds you there.
Marisha: Okay, Dad. Thank-- okay.
Matt: "Sorry." He rights his posture, shoulders back.
Marisha: I do the same. Adjust my mantle a bit. Another question. Do I have to wear this like all the time? It's a little unwieldy. It feels a little froufrou-y. Kind of ceremonial. It's just a little, feel like I'm going to trip on it.
Matt: "You know, do what you like. It's yours."
Marisha: Okay. 'Cause going upstairs in it, like in the heels, it's a little unwieldy. I mean, it's beautiful! I'm going to go get a drink.
Matt: "You probably should."
Marisha: Okay. Yeah.
Matt: "All right."
Liam: You read lips, what're they talking about?
Laura: Ah, they were talking all about you, actually.
Liam: I don't believe you.
Laura: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Liam: Why would they be talking about me?
Laura: It's this whole conversation about you.
Liam: You are full of shit.
Laura: No, I heard she was saying how much she admired you, and he was saying, "Er. I don't think I feel it as much," and she was like, "No, really, Dad, you just need a chance to really talk to him," and he was like, "No, just believe me, I did talk to him, and I don't feel that way."
Liam: Yeah. Yeah, I'm--
Laura: And then she was like-- Never mind. (laughter)
Liam: I'm so glad I confide in you. I have you to lean on. You are the rock in my life. What would I do without you?
Laura: They actually said that, as well. They were talking about how amazing I am. (laughter)
Liam: While she's talking I start to walk away, quietly as possible.
Travis: I'm so happy right now.
Marisha: (laughs) So good.
Travis: Ah, deception.
Matt: So as the ceremony dies down, the evening comes to rest, the night sky takes over and you can still hear the gentle whistling of the winds through the various cracks and crevices in the mountainside. You are brought to your respective temporary abodes for the evening to rest, and to plan, and plot what you wish to do going forward. So, what do you want to do?
Liam: Well, figuratively or literally go to hell, I imagine.
Laura: Yeah, are we doing this? Tomorrow morning, we're heading out to hell.
Liam: Yeah, I mean, what're we going to--
Travis: First things first.
Laura: First things first what, Grog?
Travis: Right.
Liam: Squad leader. (laughter)
Travis: How do we get there?
Laura: Oh, she's got Plane Shift, right?
Marisha: I can get us there.
Taliesin: Very easily, actually. That's the easy part.
Travis: We don't take, like, a ship?
Taliesin: No, sadly we can't.
Laura: No ships.
Liam: No, but we don't know exactly where we're going to land, right?
Marisha: Correct.
Laura: Well, we know the city that we want to go to.
Marisha: I can get us somewhere within the City of Dis. I don't know if--
Laura: Dis city.
Marisha: Built Dis city!
Liam: Man. This is going to go great.
Marisha: It was too easy!
Liam: I mean, when we went to the City of Brass, we did not shift into the City of Brass. We dumped quite a ways away.
Marisha: It was, yeah. But on the outskirts.
Liam: Yeah. So we have no control over that, so--
Laura: We could pop into it. We could pop out of it.
Liam: Yeah. So, whatever plan we come up with, one branch of the future is complete bullshit improvisation for if we fall into the shit.
Travis: Right.
Liam: So there's no planning for that. So if we don't fall into the shit and we land somewhere relatively safe, what're we going to do? How're we going to play this? This is hell.
Taliesin: Well, it is complicated. And, as hells go, there could be worse hells. I've been reading.
Liam: Shocking.
Taliesin: Thank you. I've been looking into this, and it seems that where we're going has a very, very structured hierarchy. It's very ordered, the society makes sense, and wherever we find this creature that we have to slay, there will probably already be forces working against him that will be happy to ally with us to help that happen. They're vicious psychopathic creatures that only function because they maintain these rules with each other about how they're supposed to act.
Laura: It's very ordered.
Taliesin: I think it would be possible to find people who would be delighted for outsiders to come in and do their dirty work for them.
Laura: However, Scalebearer, big high guy. Really important guy said not to make a scene. He said if we make a scene, that would go poorly.
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: Says him. Psh.
Liam: There's no point for sextuplets. We can't do that. That's not going to work.
Taliesin: No. They can see through things. It's going to be complicated as well because we have value as well.
Travis: Oh, I got it! We kidnap the president of hell and we assume his visage.
Liam: What's a president?
Taliesin: His name is Asmodeus. And no, we are not kidnapping Asmodeus of Hell.
Travis: Why?
Laura: I think he's probably kind of powerful.
Liam: He's really heavy.
Laura: Might be hard to lift him up.
Travis: Have you seen him?
Taliesin: I've seen sketches.
Laura: You have?
Taliesin: Yes. Well, I mean, I don't know how correct these are--
Laura: Morning! Morning has come!
Marisha: Oh, wow!
Taliesin: Oh, my.
Marisha: These are a power surge in there.
Liam: We talked all night and we squared it away and we're going to hell!
Matt: You talked all through the night. No rest was had. (laughter)
Marisha: It's very bright.
Taliesin: We're going to be offered things there. There's going to be deals made.
Liam: So we're talking negotiation or bullshitting our way. One or the other--
Taliesin: It's going to be negotiating, probably with someone who'll give us cover if we do some dirty work.
Laura: I mean, is it similar to the City of Brass? It sounds so similar.
Taliesin: They have a lot in common, yes. It's even more structured, though. There's quite a complex-- I alone have identified 13 different caste systems within their function.
Liam: Caste systems?
Taliesin: There's imps, spine devils, barbed devils, chain devils, bone devils. There's all these different kinds of devil, and each devil has to answer to a different devil. They answer specifically to the devils that have fealty over them, who in turn are at constant war with the devils who are in fealty to other devils, and archdevils, and greater devils, who in turn all owe their fealty to Asmodeus.
Laura: But we are not devils.
Taliesin: We are not devils.
Laura: Therefore, weak and liable to be taken as slaves.
Taliesin: We are not even slaves. We are consumables.
Marisha: I don't know. I feel like we've gotten a bit of a reputation for ourselves. I'm sure that word has spread. We're not, you know--
Matt: You would know this.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: Percy, through your research. It's not terribly uncommon for mortals to wander through the City of Dis specifically because it is where goods, gold, and largely souls are traded to and from various structures or entities within the hells and beyond. To just consume or eat someone means nothing. The true worth of a soul is in corrupting it. And they do so through enticing, through corrupting their morals, through driving mortals through bargains and pacts to end up twisting into entities of order and evil as well, and then claim the soul of that. Contracts are a big thing.
Taliesin: And then turning that into a lemure. Yes.
Matt: Yeah, into a lemure, or other forms of soul-based energy. But contracts are a very, very important part of the whole economy.
Laura: So the person that we made a contract with was a devil that ended up being the one that killed Pike, right? That was a devil disguised as a demon?
Matt: Ah, no. That was a demon disguised as a devil.
Marisha: Yeah, that was super confusing.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Confusing?
Marisha: That was the one that we wished our way out of the contract.
Matt: Correct. Yes.
Marisha: Yeah, we don't really have that anymore.
Taliesin: I was very proud of that.
Laura: Yeah, we don't have a wish. Okay, so we make no deals when we go.
Marisha: No deals. No contracts.
Laura: No deals. No contracts. No shaking of hands. No signing of anything.
Taliesin: No accepting of gifts.
Travis: Feel like I'm going to forget this.
Taliesin: You are.
Marisha: Just don't touch anything.
Laura: Oh no. Don't touch anything.
Taliesin: Might have to make you special gloves that don't have any fingers.
Travis: I've got special gloves.
Taliesin: Even specialer gloves.
Marisha: Like a muff.
Laura: That we can wear over those gloves.
Travis: Like a what?
Marisha: Like a hand muff. (laughter)
Travis: You're going to make me a special hand muff? (laughter)
Matt: Taryon does pipe in, he's like--
Marisha: We could put little ears on, we can make it like a kitten!
Matt: "Oh, but I've such fine handwriting! If we need to sign anything, just let me know. I'm happy to."
Laura: No, Tary, no signing anything.
Marisha: Nope.
Matt: "I've signed a lot of contracts in my time. My father used--"
Laura: No signing of contracts.
Matt: "-- to do contracts throughout the countryside."
Laura: Although I'm sure you're good at reading contracts as well.
Matt: "This is true!"
Laura: Yes. You can read them, but don't sign them. How about that?
Matt: "How about if I read them and I like it?"
Laura: No. No signing. (laughter)
Laura: Unless you want to stay in hell.
Matt: "Agree to disagree."
Laura: And we come back here.
Taliesin: Your current contract with us actually stipulates that you can't have another contract enacted until you confer with all of us.
Marisha: Exclusivity.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: He goes through his bag and pulls out the contract. "I stand corrected."
Taliesin: I'm very thorough.
Laura: I don't even remember he signed a contract.
Matt: "Doty, write this down. Be more careful about exclusivity in future contracts." (laughter)
Taliesin: I don't think you were there. This might have been just him and me getting drunk at one point.
Travis: Is there any worth to only a few people, or one or two, going in to get a lay of the land, once we get there? Instead of just moving in our truffle-shuffle normal formation.
Laura: I feel like that could be very dangerous, for one person to go in alone.
Liam: Yes, I agree.
Travis: I'll do it.
Laura: Grog, no.
Liam: No.
Travis: I'm very stealthy.
Laura: Last time you were alone-ish, you almost killed two guards.
Travis: What is the problem with that?
Laura: In Vasselheim.
Travis: We got away with it, right? Did we get caught? Did we get caught, Tary?
Matt: "No! We did-- Did we get caught?"
Travis: No.
Matt: "I don't know. I still have-- I only remember half of what happened."
Travis: Tary is very excited about my plan. It's affecting his memory of what happened.
Laura: Right.
Matt: "I think I blocked it out. But what I remember was interesting."
Laura: You could always look in Doty's diary and find out exactly what happened.
Travis: Yeah, peruse the last 90 pages for the last hour.
Matt: Takes the book and starts thumbing through real fast. You look over at Doty who still has chunks and clusters of bits of red hair from the somewhat removed goatee.
Laura: Fu Manchu?
Matt: Yeah. His secret goatee.
Marisha: So, Percy. We know a lot of things and people move through the Nine Hells. What does it say about rakshasas in there? Where do they fall in the caste?
Taliesin: It doesn't actually say where rakshasas would fall in the caste, does it?
Matt: There wasn't a terrible lot of information. Not all the devils are in the same system. There is a promotion-demotion system in which devils advance and are demoted based on their elements there. But there are other fiends that exist in that space that aren't part of that system. Rakshasas are a little bit outside of that system. Succubi, incubi, they're a little bit outside of that system. There are other fiendish creatures that actually traverse between both the Abyss and the Hells based on what their interests are. So that's predominantly the structure of the devils that are--
Taliesin: In Dis?
Matt: Well, that are built within the Hells as their primary domain.
Liam: Percy, help me understand, since you've read so much about this.
Taliesin: Yes. Whole page. (laughter)
Liam: Good on you. So if the Raven Queen escorts souls-- If you're an absolute, terrible shit of a person and the Raven Queen escorts you over to the other side, we're going to be wandering amongst the souls of the damned? People who die go to where we're going?
Taliesin: If they're under contract, this is where they go.
Matt: And many who sometimes aren't under contract go there as well.
Laura: Oh really?
Matt: And you would know this, actually. The Raven Queen, as part of the laws of the cosmos that hold the various planes together, the Raven Queen does indeed escort good souls to the positive planes, the upper planes, and not-so-good souls to the lower ones.
Laura: Actually, I know that from reading a lot about the Raven Queen. I can answer that for you.
Travis: If you don't use a turn signal, if you have a vanity plate, you go to hell. (laughter)
Liam: Thank you. I know they get escorted to the other side. It just seems like an odd idea to be walking in a city full of the thrown-away. I'm talking to the air right now.
Taliesin: No, we're absolutely listening.
Laura: I'm sorry. Keep going.
Liam: It was the best thing you never heard. (laughter)
Taliesin: That changed the game forever.
Liam: I miss Scanlan Shorthalt so badly.
Marisha: Because he listened to you so much more?
Liam: No, he's just my buddy.
All: Aww.
Taliesin: Speaking of just our buddy--
Marisha: As we move on.
Taliesin: -- Pike is another concern. I would feel far more comfortable making sure that she is definitely on board for this.
Travis: Really?
Laura: Well, that's difficult.
Liam: Phone a friend? What do we do?
Taliesin: I don't know. I've been thinking about that, the best way to--
Liam: I mean, Hotis-- How long has it been, DM?
Matt: Since?
Liam: Since Pike wasted his sorry ass.
Matt: It's been, offhand, a couple of months.
Liam: A couple months. I mean, I don't think one more day is going to kill us, if we want to go get her. You know. (laughter)
Laura: That's difficult. (laughter)
Taliesin: I know, I do bring it up, though, that it is one those things that we should talk about.
Liam: I mean, if the fates allow.
Marisha: Yes. I feel like we would have to find someone to Send Message.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: There is a Message spell, maybe in the form of a text.
Matt: Just blackmail the writers of Blindspot.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah. (laughs)
Laura: Ashley is in New York. (laughs)
Taliesin: This is one of those things where I thought I would just bring it up now before we go running in there.
Liam: Oh, I was just trying to guilt Matt into playing Pike, but--
Taliesin: I am okay with that too.
Laura: No, it's Ashley's character, though.
Marisha: I mean we kind of did--
Travis: Pike, Tary, what else? (laughs)
Matt: Yeah, just throw all the NPCs at me. (laughing)
Liam: It's not the Thordak battle, there's not 87 miniatures on the board!
Laura: No, but I mean, it could be, we don't know.
Liam: All right, well, we're all going to die.
Marisha: We'd also have to see if Ashley would be down with us, you know--
Taliesin: I thought I would bring it up.
Marisha: -- Kaiju-ing Pike once again.
Taliesin: I just thought I would bring it up--
Matt: You guys could Jaeger her again.
Taliesin: -- 'cause it is one of those things that is pretty clutch down there.
Liam: Not prepared, but we never are.
Travis: Nope. So we kidnap the president. (laughter)
Laura: Definitely. I'm liking it more.
Marisha: So, I'm curious, if-- Rakshasas aren't necessarily part of the system, and this guy tends to come in and out and just make people's lives a living hell. (laughs) Hell! We're going! Puns!
Travis: Good. Slick.
Marisha: Then maybe no one would miss him. In fact, maybe people down there don't like him. You know?
Taliesin: The feeling I get reading-- the more I read about this place, is no one likes anybody down there, and so if we can figure out a way to be convenient about it, you can disappear anybody.
Liam: Also, didn't someone tell us that if they get trashed they are treated like shit there?
Taliesin: He's probably not well-respected.
Liam: We've trashed his ass twice.
Travis: When we went to the City of Brass we were owned, right? That's what let us move around so freely?
Taliesin: We don't have to do that here.
Laura: Are you sure-- okay.
Liam: (sighs) I mean, we thought it was getting us around but it clearly wasn't.
Travis: There's nothing that we need to think about like that so that we have--
Laura: So we should just go down, act like we're evils, like our souls have been claimed by another devil already.
Taliesin: Honestly, the more we act like us, the more people are going to try to tempt us into things.
Marisha: I could use Alter Self or try and change into something that's devil-y.
Laura: Can't they see through that?
Taliesin: They'll probably see through it.
Marisha: I have a question.
Matt: Yes?
Marisha: Because that is an interesting question, because--
Matt: Illusions are different than actually physically changing yourself.
Marisha: Right. It's transmutation--
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: Because Shapechange is considered a transmutation spell, whereas Seeming was an illusion spell.
Matt: Seeming was an illusion. Illusions and--
Travis: You actually become that thing.
Matt: As far as you know, the pit fiend you encountered is the only creature that saw through an illusion.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: However, illusions and transmutation spells, things that actually physically alter your form, that's not considered an illusion. You are actually changing your physicality, so Alter Self would not be something that a creature with Truesight could see through.
Marisha: Can I Alter Self to a succubus?
Matt: I mean, you could alter yourself to look more--
Marisha: To look like one.
Matt: -- like one. Maybe, yeah.
Marisha: Or like a tiefling?
Matt: I mean, you wouldn't be able to give yourself wings.
Marisha: Are tieflings a thing in the City of Dis?
Matt: You don't know.
Marisha: Percy, are tieflings a thing in the City of Dis?
Taliesin: I don't know.
Matt: Ah, actually-- (laughter)
Taliesin: Would I know? It's not on the page. You gave me one page.
Liam: If you just think for a second.
Matt: I know, I know. Well, before I gave you a basic structure and I am filling in the gaps as we go.
Taliesin: Sure, thank you.
Matt: Yes, they are quite often found there. That is specifically a city that a lot of the social construct revolves around the cross-section between the mortal races and devils.
Marisha: I wonder if they have guides. I wonder if I can be like a tiefling tour guide for you guys.
Laura: Maybe you could be our conduit, the person that brings us to--
Marisha: Yeah, like an ambassador, an escort.
Taliesin: Already have us under contract.
Marisha: Already have you under contract.
Laura: Sure.
Travis: Yeah.
Taliesin: Do you feel up to this level of deception? I say with all seriousness.
Marisha: (inhales) You know it's not my strongest suit, and I recognize this.
Laura: Wait, wait, Tary. Do you have anything, like a spell you can make, any kind of trinket, (laughs) that would help Keyleth be better at lying?
Matt: "Oh, well, I do believe that I can enhance somebody's visage."
Laura: Well, not that, no. I'm talking an actual like ability to tell lies better. Something that would up her maybe charisma?
Marisha: Does he have Enhance Ability? Is that what you are talking about?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: He can give me Enhance Ability which means I would get advantage on checks.
Laura: That's better.
Marisha: Which I can do on myself as well. Yeah. So, yeah, I can give myself, you know, I can--
Matt: "But I can do it as well, and probably a little better."
Marisha: And Tary can do it as well. I'll talk into a mirror for a little bit, practice some things that tieflings might say. What are things tieflings say?
Taliesin: Oh God, I'm a tiefling. What happened? Why has this happened to me?
Marisha: "Oh God, I'm a tiefling. What happened? Why is this happening to me?" See?
Laura: That's perfect, that's perfect.
Taliesin: It's uncanny.
Travis: I don't believe you.
Liam: We are so close to being able to semi-retire and take it easy. We cannot cock this up. We're going to hell, we've no plan! What if we went and were completely honest, and were ourselves? And explained that we were here to remove the shittiest devil in the city?
Laura: Seriously? Seriously?
Liam: I am being serious.
Travis: Yeah, he does have a slight point.
Liam: We tried that. We've tried that. I mean, maybe it'll work. We just run willy-nilly. That's what we do.
Travis: Maybe we do them a favor, it's not like we're saying--
Taliesin: I'm of the opinion that a bunch of mortals show up in the City of Dis looking for a rakshasa, I think they're going to be able to put two and two together.
Marisha: Why? Yeah, they're going to know. I honestly don't think anyone's going to have a problem with us killing this guy. It's just a matter of do we want to be full Vox Machina? Because it might paint a giant target on us. Or maybe have someone as a silent escort? I could try and not speak a whole lot.
Liam: Yeah, I mean, you could--
Marisha: I could just-- maybe I could be a mute escort? I had my tongue cut out.
Liam: I mean, I just feel like our-- certainly without Scanman-- our chances of fooling anybody are lower than they've ever been. So maybe having you as a tiefling escort gives a little credibility to the dummies there.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: There's lots of people who're not dummies, though, and I feel like we should just quietly negotiate our way through, because I don't think we can bullshit, not without Scanlan.
Taliesin: I think that's very fair.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: All right.
Marisha: I agree. Okay.
Travis: I got lost, but I agree.
Laura: Did you ever get a response from Sam on his potions? So, I didn't want to tell.
Liam: Six regular, three medium, one superstar. If you need gold, I've got loads.
Travis: It's literally right there.
Laura: Oh. I didn't know you wrote it down, Grog.
Travis: Motherfuck--
Laura: You can't count. Okay, we gotta pass these potions out. Who wants a superior?
Liam: I do.
Travis: Oh, do you have those potions?
Laura: Yeah. Yeah, Tary gave them to me.
Taliesin: They were gift-wrapped and everything.
Laura: Did you steal them from me when I wasn't noticing? Because if you did I would have perceived it.
Matt: "I did, sorry."
Travis: Perceived it?
Laura: Yeah, I would have. Because I have really high perceiving.
Matt: "I thought that's why you wanted it gift-wrapped."
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: I'll take any-- I forget the sizes, is it venti, or grande?
Laura: I don't want you dying again. Take the superior.
Liam: Ooh, thank you.
Laura: Is that all right with everyone?
Taliesin: Yes, that's perfectly fine.
Matt: "I will say I did buy them, if I could also--"
Laura: Really, Tary? Because you have all those patches, I thought that's the reason you gave them to us.
Matt: "Oh, but they're measly trifles of healing, I could use something--"
Liam: Tary, how tough is that armor?
Matt: "The best that money could buy."
Liam: Yeah, but is it ceremonial or is it like shit-kicker?
Matt: "It's functional."
Laura: Do you want two regular potions, how is that, Tary? Is that good for you? In addition to your patches? Or would you want one of the greaters that you bought for us?
Matt: "Greater."
Laura: Wow, all right, sure, take it back.
Taliesin: (laughs) I'm so sad Sam couldn't be here for that.
Laura: Okay, I'll take a greater as well.
Marisha: All right.
Travis: Are you sure you don't want to give me one? Because I usually end up pouring it into one of you sloppy saps.
Laura: Good call. Greater for Grog.
Liam: That's a good idea.
Laura: So that's all three greaters taken.
Taliesin: I'll take two regular if you've got them.
Laura: Two regulars for Percy, two regulars for Keyleth.
Marisha: Sure.
Laura: And that's-- well, that's two regulars left.
Liam: That's like strapping a turkey baster to a tank, that's what that is.
Travis: Yeah, yeah.
Marisha: I would maybe just keep those or give them to Grog maybe, once again.
Travis: Get up. (laughs)
Laura: Okay, so Grog.
Travis: What?
Laura: You have two regulars and one greater.
Travis: Yarr.
Laura: All right.
Liam: Fred, Freddie. Do we know what languages are likely to be spoken there?
Travis: Oh, good question.
Liam: Does that say in your books?
Marisha: Did you just call Percy 'Freddie'? I like it.
Laura: He keeps calling him that.
Matt: Infernal.
Liam: It's his name, isn't it?
Travis: Frederick.
Taliesin: Infernal? They speak Infernal. Technically it would be a middle name.
Liam: Do you speak Infernal? Well, it is--
Taliesin: I do not speak Infernal.
Liam: -- your name, is it not? You have 37 of them, am I allowed to use any of ones between the first and the last?
Taliesin: I am struggling to find a reason why not, which is somewhat irritating.
Liam: You know, we're years into being friends. What do you prefer?
Taliesin: Percy is just perfectly reasonable.
Travis: What about D-Roll?
Laura: What about Von?
Marisha: D-Roll's pretty good.
Liam: D-Roll--
Laura: What about Musel?
Liam: Oh jeez, I was just about to agree on it but--
Taliesin: My god, you've found the line, and I've drawn it.
Liam: I don't know, D-Roll's pretty good. Man, D-Roll's great!
Taliesin: D-Roll is actually pretty slick.
Liam: I'm suddenly extremely jealous of Grog for coming up with that name. Oh man, yeah, that's going to haunt you, my friend.
Taliesin: You're just going to end up Wings someday, that's all I'm saying.
Liam: Y'all wanna stop and get a wing?
Laura: Infernal. But they speak Common, I'm assuming, as well.
Matt: You don't know. You really don't know.
Laura: Ah, shit. We don't know anybody who speaks Infernal, do we?
Marisha: Hey, Tary.
Liam: What about Zahra?
Marisha: Do you have any spells that help you be able to speak languages? Isn't there a spell called Languages?
Matt: "Not at the moment. However, if we have enough time, I'm sure we could go and find a local class that teaches, maybe go to the Lyceum and we could learn the basics. Few weeks."
Travis: Tary, do you want me to punch you in the face?
Matt: "No, I do not. Please, don't do that. Which, by the way, if we need any sort of healing--" And he rummages through his pouch here and says, "I can muster a couple of short-term potions if it gets too bad."
Laura: Why did you take one of the greaters if you can make healing potions on your own?
Matt: "Well, I can only really use one for myself, and I wanted a backup."
Laura: Right.
Taliesin: So Infernal is going to be a problem.
Liam: And we're taking Doty with us? Is that the plan?
Matt: "I don't see why we wouldn't. Why would we not want to bring him with us?"
Liam: I'm sure there's lots of robits in hell.
Taliesin: Does Doty speak Infernal?
Matt: "Doty doesn't speak."
Taliesin: Can he write in Infernal?
Liam: Is he a protocol droid?
Matt: This is where it would be useful for Sam to send me his character sheet so I would know what languages he chose. But because Sam's not here, no. Doty does not know or speak Infernal.
Liam: Somewhere an aerator's going (raspberry).
Travis: Sam's stuff is right there, isn't it?
Laura: Oh, yeah!
Taliesin: No, that's my stuff. I'm spreading because he's not here.
Laura: Understandable.
Marisha: Not really.
Laura: Man-spreading.
Travis: Can we tear off your sleeve and then you understand Infernal?
Matt: "No, you don't need to do that."
Travis: We could try.
Matt: "I would not recommend it."
Taliesin: I speak Disco, but not Infernal.
Laura: No.
Taliesin: So sorry.
Marisha: (sings) Disco Inferno.
Taliesin: I'm not really that sorry.
Travis: You can't just off-the-cuff that. You've gotta save that for something.
Taliesin: That was for the Aladdin earlier. I had to do something in retaliation. We're looking to see if anything--
Laura: I speak Abyssal, but that's the other ones.
Liam: That's the other guys.
Marisha: I mean, if I wanted to use Shapechange to actually turn myself into--
Laura: A succubus.
Marisha: -- a succubus or a rakshasa, then I would speak Infernal because I do get that with-- we didn't really fully decide. It never specifies.
Matt: I would say, yeah.
Marisha: Because you get everything, but you just keep your intellect, wisdom, and--
Travis: Yeah, do that!
Liam: You get a whole other language?
Laura: Tight, then make yourself a succubus.
Matt: Well, no, you keep your intellect, it's not like you learn what the creature would know. So probably not.
Marisha: But you learn their spells and abilities. You automatically get those.
Liam: Are the spells in the brain, though? Or in the body?
Marisha: It doesn't specify in the spell. It's kind of what you decide.
Taliesin: It depends on what kind of spell. Like, elemental spells--
Laura: I really want to see what you look like as a succubus, personally.
Taliesin: I do, too. This picture they have in the book is quite exciting.
Marisha: Yeah, she's got a whip.
Taliesin: Yes, she does.
Matt: Any average example of that creature, one without any class levels or the spellcasting trait. So you don't get any spells. If you turn into something that has spellcasting, you don't get their spells. You maintain your intellect--
Marisha: But I get their abilities.
Matt: You get their abilities, their physical abilities and things they can do.
Laura: Oh, but that's different than knowing their language.
Matt: Yeah. So I don't think you'd pick up a language.
Travis: Yeah. You get to suck.
Marisha: All right.
Matt: Sorry.
Taliesin: Well, we may have to actually hire a guide once we're in there, then.
Laura: No, we can't hire anyone! Why can't we just a hire a tiefling? Don't you have any other tieflings in your tribe?
Marisha: Maybe, but I imagine they would be super-rare.
Liam: You've been gone a while.
Marisha: Do we have any?
Liam: Maybe ask dear old Dad.
Matt: We'll say for the purposes of-- thank you for the text. So, he checked on the languages that Doty knew.
Laura: Aw, that's great.
Matt: And Infernal was not one of them, I'm sorry. So there are two tieflings that exist in this society. They're pretty rare when it comes to Ashari, just because a lot of tieflings tend to not feel comfortable in some natural elements sometimes.
Marisha: Sure.
Matt: One of them is about six years old. And the other predominantly works as a gardener in the vicinity.
Marisha: So it's not a guarantee that they know Infernal, necessarily?
Matt: It's not a guarantee, I don't think.
Taliesin: We could go ask.
Laura: I think we go.
Marisha: I could go ask. I mean, I could go and get a few buzz-words, you know--
Liam: Let's find that six-year-old.
Marisha: -- hello, goodbye, please, thank you, left, right.
Taliesin: No, thank you.
Matt: Actually, most tieflings do learn Infernal as a language.
Marisha: What time is it?
Matt: You guys have been talking late into the evening, it's maybe one or two in the morning.
Laura: So go in the morning, find out. If not, we'll just go there and hope that someone speaks Common.
Taliesin: It is called Common for a reason.
Marisha: Yeah, Common. I feel like we'll be okay.
Liam: Well, we can't sit here and wait for him to come back, we've just gotta fucking do it, right?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Unless-- I could try and talk to Dad, too, and see if he has anything that might help with languages, but I don't know. I think we'll be okay. We'll be all right, right?
Laura: It's just hell.
Marisha: It's just hell. It's fine.
Laura: No big deal. Fine.
Marisha: Okay, so do we have a vague plan? Should we sleep?
Taliesin: Sleep, talk to the gardener.
Liam: But if we do this, we're done. We can take it easy.
Laura: Ish.
Taliesin: For a bit.
Liam: To do what? What is left? The dragons are dead. All that's left is Hotis. What is left?
Laura: The fucking deal that I made with your fucking goddess. Who knows if she'll call us out on it, but.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: There's that.
Liam: Well, I'm not going to run right back to the temple. Are you?
Laura: Well, hell no. She creeps me out.
Liam: Thank you.
Laura: I saw her face. It's fucking weird.
Marisha: Yeah, I saw that-- wait, you guys all saw-- we really talked to--
Laura: Yeah, that happened.
Marisha: Because that feels like a fever-dream. That happened, you saw that.
Laura: Did you know we saw her?
Marisha: Grog, you saw that, right?
Laura: The giant white mask?
Marisha: The giant white face.
Travis: Nope.
Laura: Grog.
Marisha: Grog.
Laura: I feel like Grog's getting more--
Marisha: Indignant?
Laura: I feel like you're lying more now than you used to.
Travis: That is not true. (laughter)
Liam: What do you want to do after this, Grog? Say we get back from hell. What's the next step for you? I mean, we're going to party, that's a given, but, like, are you done with the Herd?
Travis: Oh, I dunno, I never look that far ahead. It keeps disappointment low.
Marisha: No expectations. I like it.
Travis: Yep.
Marisha: I mean, it's bad for goals, but yeah.
Travis: Goals?
Marisha: High-five, buddy.
Travis: Hey!
Marisha: Hey!
Travis: (with a mouthful of drink) I don't have any plans, so I do anything and it normally works out great.
Marisha: Word.
Taliesin: There were words in there.
Laura: I actually understood it. How fucked-up is that?
Travis: You don't need to see all the way to the horizon, right? You just gotta see right in front of your own little feet. You'll get there.
Liam: Yeah. You remember that time a sword killed you? (laughter)
Travis: Yep.
Liam: You do, yeah. Doesn't always work out. Sometimes it gets cocked up, yeah?
Travis: Not yet.
Liam: Not yet.
Taliesin: He's got a point.
Marisha: He does have a point.
Laura: This is true. I mean, we're all here.
Marisha: Has anyone stopped to wonder why we're all still alive?
Taliesin: All the time.
Marisha: Yeah, by all likelihood we shouldn't be. That's fun. Good times, good times. What about you, Vex? What are you doing after we take a retirement?
Laura: Oh, wow, this is happening.
Travis: Percy.
Laura: (laughs) Good one, Grog. I mean, yeah.
Marisha: I mean, we knew that.
Laura: I'm going to hopefully build up my small house.
Taliesin: You do have a small house if you're feeling--
Liam: Has it been built?
Laura: No, no, it needs to be.
Taliesin: It needs to be. There's land.
Liam: 'Twill be.
Taliesin: Yeah, 'twill be. It's going to be lovely.
Marisha: 'Twill be lovely.
Travis: Are you going to be like Mr. Bates on Downton Abbey afterwards?
Laura: I don't know who that is.
Marisha: Considering your idea of "small".
Taliesin: It was very nice before it caught fire.
Liam: This is the sweetest before-we-all-die.
Taliesin: This is, and the Grey Hunt itself is eventually going to be popping up.
Laura: I would love to know what that is.
Marisha: What is the Grey Hunt, Percy? You keep saying what the Grey Hunt is.
Liam: Yeah, bust that out.
Marisha: What is it?
Taliesin: What's your plans, Kiki?
Liam: Whoa, whoa, back it up.
Marisha: It's nothing. It's nothing, is what it is.
Laura: I feel like the Grey Hunt is something really terrible and you just haven't told me.
Taliesin: It's not terrible.
Liam: Bust it out, D-Roll.
Taliesin: No, no, no, I mean, there's some boring bits of it, obviously.
Liam: Well, tell us the juicy bits of it.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: (sighs)
Marisha: Is it like paying your taxes, where it's not a real thing, but you kind of have to do it because it's on paper, and someone tells you to?
Laura: Do I get a jolly hat out of it?
Taliesin: Where does she learn this stuff? I've never--
Marisha: I learned it from you, Percy!
Taliesin: Oh my god. (laughter)
Travis: "I learned it from you!" (laughter)
Travis: No guilt.
Taliesin: Part of the Grey Hunt-- and this happens not every season, but often on Winter's Crest festivals, and again it is an official title and does actually carry with it some responsibilities beyond that, but they're very, very you, they'll be fine-- is, and I can't give too much of it away because part of the ritual is also--
Marisha: Oh my god! Tell us something!
Taliesin: You are going to have to go into the woods, and meet something.
Liam: He's making this up as he goes.
Taliesin: No, I'm really not.
Laura: Meet something?
Taliesin: You go into the woods, there are creatures that live in the woods that have been affected by the land, that have gained some--
Travis: You're going to shroom your tits off.
Laura: Do I get really high? Is this the whole point of the Grey Hunt?
Taliesin: Whitestone. There are things within the earth of Whitestone that have certain power and certain energies, and they have been seeped into the plants and the stones and the animals themselves, and your job will be--
Laura: Do I have to find the highest animal in the woods?
Taliesin: More or less.
Liam: I am starting to regret that I asked. What's the punchline?
Taliesin: The punchline is you're going to go and you're going to have to actually bring back a kill, and it will be a very specific kill that is asked for.
Laura: Oh, wow.
Taliesin: But part of that then gives you a practically divine right to manage and look after the creatures of the woods, and our hunting, and what is reasonable to be killed, and otherwise. I think I'm covering most of it--
Marisha: How do you mean divine? Like she can see things? If she kills the radioactive beast does that mean she gets radioactive powers?
Taliesin: Divine more in the sense of what reasonable people do to tell commoners that we're allowed to talk to them.
Marisha: Oh. That's not as fun.
Taliesin: Less exciting.
Laura: Do I go alone or do I get help?
Taliesin: You do go alone. No, you do not get help.
Laura: Oh, shit.
Marisha: That's so cool.
Liam: You're so fucking transparent sometimes.
Laura: Sounds fun.
Taliesin: I think you're going to do very well.
Marisha: Oh, you'll be fine!
Laura: I look forward to it.
Marisha: She's killed tree beasts and dragons, she's fine.
Liam: Everything under the sun.
Travis: Tree beasts or three beasts?
Marisha: Both!
Laura: Look, my light-up 20 just lit up for no reason as we were talking about it. I think it'll go very well.
Taliesin: It's a sign. It'll be a lovely Winter's Crest. We haven't had a master or mistress of the Grey Hunt in many, many, many years.
Marisha: So, what are you going to do when we take a break, Percy? You still haven't answered the question.
Taliesin: I don't know. I mean, I think I'm going home. I say "I think." I'm going home. There will be work to do there.
Laura: Don't look at me.
Taliesin: And I have plans for my city. I have plans for the people. I want to make it great again. I want to make it shining, beautiful, comfortable for everyone.
Marisha: You know, I might need your help. I have a few ideas for the Ashari tribes as well.
Taliesin: I think that that would be an excellent thing, for our two people to communicate very regularly.
Marisha: I think they need to.
Taliesin: I think they must.
Marisha: Can you help me build some sort of, maybe like, alarm system?
Taliesin: That sounds very expensive, I'm not sure that that's possible. Yes, of course I can help you with something like that.
Marisha: Okay! But with taxpayer's money. Also something else you taught me.
Taliesin: It will be a string on a bell. You're learning so well.
Marisha: Yeah, just two cups on a string.
Laura: Can we go to bed?
Marisha: Yeah. Let's do that. (laughter)
Taliesin: Are we all sleeping in this hut, or do we have separate huts? We're all sleeping in this hut, aren't we?
Liam: Welcome to your yurt.
Travis: Is it all water outside still? Like, a little bit of water on the ground? No. We're not there anymore.
Laura: It's windy. You're up on a cliff.
Matt: Grog is very drunk at this point.
Liam: So drunk.
Travis: There's so much water outsi-- (laughter)
Matt: No, you guys do have separate places to stay. People clear out in clusters, you have your own locations to sleep.
Liam: Why does it smell like mayo?
Laura: That's gross.
Travis: Taste of choice.
Liam: It is mayo! Take that!
Laura: He's just been drinking mayo. (laughs)
Travis: Takes a strong constitution.
Liam: That is vile! (laughter)
Taliesin: That's probably not kept well.
Laura: That's so gross. All right.
Taliesin: Goodnight, lovely people.
Matt: You guys rest for the evening. The morning comes, with your mayo hangover. (laughter)
Travis: It's so pure, it never leaves a hangover. (laughter)
Matt: As morning comes around, you all come to consciousness. The village of Zephra is already come to life. You can see that the townspeople are up and about, they're handling their business. The guard's being tended to. You can see the Windriders are already out, leaping from mountain peak to mountain peak, doing their perimeters in the vicinity. The children are up and being led to their various outdoor classes. The city is alive, and your business is your own.
Marisha: I get information on that gardener and where to find him. Or them. Or she. Or he. I don't know who they are.
Matt: Right. It's easy enough to find, in this city in particular a tiefling sticks out like a sore thumb. You see a woman, probably in her-- it's hard to tell with a tiefling, demon don't crack. But she's a little older, she's in her 40s probably. Dark purple skin, the horns curl backward and come to almost a singular point behind--
Laura: Oh, cool.
Matt: And the dark hair shifts in streaks of gray, but she's in the middle of what looks to be, gloves on, in the process of checking and planting more seeds.
Marisha: Do I know her name? Did I get a name?
Matt: Yeah. This is Whitney.
Marisha: Whitney.
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: I've tagged along, by the way.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Not her given name, but the name she chose when she joined the Zephra.
Marisha: Sure. Okay.
Matt: You've interfaced here and there, nothing too immediate. You were very young and you were still-- last you were in the village, being pushed towards this place of greatness, so a lot of people didn't interact with you directly too much.
Marisha: Sure.
Matt: But you've seen her around.
Marisha: When we were like kiddies? Oh, no, but she'd be forever--
Matt: She was older, much older.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: As you approach, she stops and wipes the dust from her hands, and turns, "Ah! My lady Keyleth, I'm sorry." And she stands up and does, like a small--
Marisha: Don't do that. The bowing thing is-- I've always been uncomfortable with it, don't--
Matt: "I didn't really know what to do--"
Marisha: No! It's-- No, don't, it's fine. No. You're fine. You're great! Hi!
Matt: "Hi."
Marisha: Good to see you!
Matt: "You as well, congratulations."
Marisha: Oh, thank you. I was just wondering if I could actually just ask you a few questions, on behalf of everybody.
Matt: "Certainly, what can I do to help?"
Marisha: Well, okay. (sighs) I don't know if this is a sensitive subject or not, I know you've been away from this for a little bit, but it seems me and my team are going to the Nine Hells. To the City of Dis. And, yeah. No. I know. We all had the same reaction. (laughs) I just, I didn't know if you could actually help me with any Infernal language or any knowledge that might help, or if you still know the language.
Matt: "I've not had to use it in a very long time. I don't know much about what you're talking about, I've lived here my whole life. I don't know what else I can offer, as far as-- I can read a little Infernal, and I can understand it if I hear it, I haven't really had to speak it in a while. What do you need?"
Marisha: Well, we were thinking of going in under disguise as, potentially, as tieflings, since they are more common there.
Matt: "All right."
Marisha: So I didn't know if you could share any basics of your language?
Matt: "What do you want to know?"
Marisha: Well, you know, hello. Goodbye. Thanks. Sorry. Left, right.
Matt: "Oh, all right." And she takes a minute and has to scratch her head, you can see it's been a long time since she's ever had to exercise her Infernal-speaking muscles--
Marisha: Do you want to do this over breakfast? I can, we'd be more than happy to buy you breakfast.
Matt: "I'm all right, I'm all right, I'm in the middle of my work here. Okay. For a greeting, I mean as much as there is one. It's pretty abrupt." And if you're keeping tabs on this, it's pronounced "koo-thok".
All: Kuthok.
Taliesin: Kuthok. We're all going to say that over and over again now. Kuthok.
Liam: It's like Klingon.
Laura: Yeah, it does. It sounds like Klingon.
Marisha: Okay, cool.
Laura: Emphasis on "THOK". (laughter)
Marisha: KuTHOK. You're right.
Matt: "There's, goodbye is very similar. Kuthrek."
Marisha: Kuthrek.
Matt: "That is usually said in a very forceful manner. Goodbyes outside of-- it's usually a very stern separation."
Marisha: Sure.
Matt: "What else did you--?"
Liam: Excuse me, I'm sorry. I'm Lady Keyleth's... friend, and--
Marisha: (laughs)
Liam: Aren't I, though?
Marisha: No. Sorry. I saw the hesitation and it was cute. Keep going.
Liam: All right. We-- You grew up here, so I don't know if this means anything to you, but we are searching for a rakshasa. Do you know what that is?
Matt: "I'm afraid I do not."
Liam: No.
Matt: "Look, it's all right. I understand, I-- many people just assume because of the way I look that I know a lot about devils and demons."
Marisha: No! No, no, no! I--
Matt: But I really don't. I'm sorry.
Liam: No, it's all right. Sorry.
Matt: "It's okay. I just--"
Liam: Yeah, we're-- we're kind of grasping at straws so I hope we didn't offend.
Matt: "No, no offense taken. Just-- I wish I could be of more help. I'm sorry."
Travis: (whispers) Insight check.
Matt: "Any other phrases?"
Laura: (whispers) Insight check.
Liam: (whispers) No.
Marisha: I mean-- maybe like a 'yes' and a 'no'? And then we'll totally leave you to your work, because I feel like I've totally interrupted, like, your flow and I'm so sorry.
Matt: "It's okay. You're allowed to. You're the Voice of the Tempest, for goodness sake. I--"
Marisha: Doesn't excuse me from human decency. (laughs)
Matt: "Fair enough. 'Yes' is-- 'yes' or an acknowledgement, is more of a 'yai'."
All: Yai.
Marisha: Yai. Was that right?
Laura: Episode 91, where we force Matt to make up an entire language on the spot.
Marisha: Yeah. (laughs)
Matt: Yeah. Thanks guys.
Taliesin: This is so wonderfully Doctor Dolittle.
Laura: Yai equals yes.
Travis: Ai.
Marisha: Yai.
Laura: Nai. Nern. (laughter)
Travis: She's not even waiting for it.
Liam: Ermahgerd.
Matt: Sure, that's it now, guys. (laughter)
Taliesin: No! No! Damn it Liam!
Marisha: Fuck! Shut up! Shut up!
Laura: No, not 'ermahgerd'!
Matt: It is now.
Marisha: Come on. Come on, really?
Liam: He's god.
Laura: No he is not.
Liam: Ermahgerd.
Laura: Oh. My. God.
Taliesin: Ermahgerd. I hate you.
Laura: That's canon.
Taliesin: It's going in the book.
Liam: What's that, Mr. Disco? Who do you hate? (laughter)
Laura: Thanks a lot, Liam!
Taliesin: You and she of the so-called "Tempest" can both--
Liam: You're welcome. (laughter)
Travis: Brilliant. You're not going to ask her any questions? But she's a fuckin' felon on the run from the Hells. You're just going to let her go--
Marisha: She's not a felon on the run. I've known her since I was a child.
Travis: No, you're a fool. You're blind.
Laura: We're not here, so don't worry. We're not having this conversation in front of her.
Travis: She's a mass murderer and you let her pick your vegetables.
Marisha: She's a peaceful fucking gardener for the past 20 years.
Travis: It's a great cover.
Laura: For the past 20 years.
Liam: Speaking of which, do you know-- what's the word for peace? Is there a word for peace? Do you know?
Matt: "Not that I know of."
Liam: All right. Shit. This was not very fruitful.
Marisha: Mm. It's the Nine Hells. Is there a word for 'thank you'? Do they thank people there?
Matt: "It's similar to 'goodbye'."
Marisha: (laughs) It's similar to goodbye.
Liam: Is it more or less forceful?
Matt: "About the same. It can mean both."
Liam: Okay.
Marisha: Can be both?
Liam: It's an inflection thing?
Matt: Well, it's more like 'aloha.' It can be 'hello' or 'goodbye', you know.
Liam: I feel like we've hassled this woman enough.
Laura: You should ask, like, how to say 'Don't fuck with me.'
Marisha: Yeah, I feel bad. Whitney.
Liam: Well that's a bit of a complicated phrase for someone who barely knows how to say 'hi' and 'bye.' Woman who's not here.
Laura: Ermahgerd.
Marisha: Thank you so much for us interrupting your morning. Is there anything you'd like from me in return?
Matt: "Just leave me to my gardening, if that's okay." (laughter)
Liam: Yeah, we can be annoying sometimes. We understand.
Travis: She's got more people to bury.
Marisha: Great to see you. See you again.
Matt: "You as well."
Marisha: Man. So good to be home. Okay, let's go! Vax?
Matt: As soon as you start walking away in the awkward quiet you hear her say over your shoulder, "Good luck."
Marisha: "Thanks." I don't look back out of embarrassment.
Matt: Okay. (laughs)
Taliesin: Ah. Voice of the Tempest.
Marisha: Voice of the Tempest, motherfuckers!
Liam: "Kuthrek."
Marisha: First act of being king!
Laura: Kathrek. Kuthrek.
Liam: I don't know if I said that right.
Laura: It's koothrek.
Liam: I just said tangerine in--
Marisha: It's Kuthok. Kuthrek. Yai. And ermahgerd.
Matt: (with accent) Ermahgerd.
Laura: What is it?
Liam: Mordor.
Matt: Yeah, you got to roll it.
Marisha: Rounded vowels. (laughter)
Matt: We've all suffered through those pronunciations.
Liam: Inside baseball.
Travis: Make it the last word in a four-sentence line.
Laura: No!
Matt: Mordor. Anyway, sorry. Voice-acting lamenting. So!
Marisha: Metamucil?
Taliesin: Mm. Open your portal to the Nine Hells.
Matt: That's a 6th-level spell. So what do you guys want to do?
Travis: Regularity.
Taliesin: I think it's-- are we going to just do this?
Travis: How did it go? Did you learn everything?
Marisha: You know, it went about as well as one could expect?
Travis: I expected it to go pretty fucking well.
Laura: Did you learn all of the language?
Marisha: Uh-huh, I totally learned all the language in one 15-minute setting of annoying a poor gardener.
Laura: Well, tell us what you learned so that we can speak it too.
Marisha: Okay. Hello, hello-- kuthok.
All: Kuthok!
Laura: Kuthok. Got it.
Marisha: Kuthok. Yeah, an emphasis on 'thok'.
Laura: Got it.
Marisha: Uh-huh. Goodbye--
Liam: Is Cusack.
Marisha: Close. Close. Kuthrek.
All: Kuthrek.
Laura: Check.
Travis: Oopeck.
Marisha: Yes  yai.
All: Yai.
Laura: It's like 'yay', only kind of weird.
All: Yai.
Matt: So excited for this. (laughter)
Liam: I'm not.
Taliesin: (whispers) Hate you.
Marisha: No-- is ermahgerd.
All: Ermahgerd.
Marisha: It's impressive that no is the most complicated one. I know.
Taliesin: So how do you say, 'Do you speak Common?'
Laura: I think probably, 'Do you speak Common?'
Taliesin: Oh, well, that's fair. (laughter)
Travis: That's it? That's all you got?
Taliesin: It's remarkable.
Marisha: She didn't remember a whole lot. She's been living amongst us for quite a while. In fact, she never lived in the Nine Hells, because apparently that was maybe vaguely offensive?
Laura: Well, yeah.
Travis: Did you believe her?
Taliesin: She kills at night.
Marisha: She's n-- yes. I've known her for a while.
Travis: What's her last name?
Laura: What's her mother's name?
Marisha: (laughs) What's her mother's name?!
Taliesin: No. No, I'm calling that one.
Travis: She's coming with us though, right?
Laura: Did you learn how to say 'Leave us alone'?
Liam: She wasn't very good on phrasing.
Marisha: Ermahgerd.
Laura: That works.
Liam: It was just words.
Marisha: Just words.
Taliesin: Yet I will say, 'yes', 'no', 'please,' and 'thank you' can get you through an enormous amount of transactions with reasonable people.
Marisha: Well, we don't have 'please' and 'thank you' because apparently they--
Laura: It's the Nine fucking Hells, nobody says please and thank you.
Marisha: Yeah, they're not very polite.
Taliesin: So 'yes' and 'no' get you through an awful lot.
Liam: If a horrible devil is bearing down on you to kill you, you just say 'Ermahgerd, ermahgerd, ermahgerd, ermahgerd, ermahgerd, ermahgerd.' (laughter)
Marisha: It's like the equivalent of the Shia Leboeuf 'Nanananana!'
Travis: Nononono!
Marisha: Nananana no.
Laura: Check! This is great.
Matt: I am so excited for this.
Taliesin: We are stalling.
Marisha: This is going great. We are totally stalling.
Laura: All right, we should probably go.
Travis: How do we feel about kidnapping the nine-year-old tiefling?
Matt: You hear the tearing of paper behind you as Taryon takes a sheet from Doty's book and is now, "Ermahgerd."
Laura: Uh-huh.
Matt: "Er-- (clears throat)--er-- (high pitched voice)-- ermahgerd. Er-- I'm practicing."
Liam: Get it out of your system now, because when we get over there you should probably keep your voice down.
Laura: You've got to be, like, so cool. You've got to be the coolest.
Liam: And if that means not talking, that's what it's got to be, all right?
Travis: Tary do you remember how dangerous the kraken was?
Matt: "Yes, but we still prevailed."
Travis: And this is like-- (whispers) what's a big number?
Liam: Seven.
Travis: This is, like, seven times more dangerous.
Taliesin: Easily.
Liam: Yeah. Everybody's a kraken there. More or less.
Taliesin: A city of krakens.
Matt: "Well, do we all have to go?"
Travis: Only if you want to become, you know, a full-fledged, permanent, into-the-histories member of Vox Machina.
Liam: Is that on the table?
Matt: "Then I accept!"
Travis: Mm. Wise choice.
Taliesin: It is now.
Travis: A wise choice. It's only like part of it.
Taliesin: This is assuming that we're going to survive, to be fair, so--
Laura: I know, we could all die.
Taliesin: It's a lot of assumption. Oh, any of us. Any.
Matt: "What?"
Taliesin: Nothing, it's going to be great.
Laura: Let's do this. Let's build Dis city.
Travis: Do you have a will made up?
Taliesin: How do you even know that-- I-- no, never mind.
Travis: Don't worry about it, we'll get to that later.
Liam: The multi-verse is large and wide.
Matt: All right. What's the plan?
Marisha: Time is a flat circle.
Laura: (sings) Let's go to Dis city.
Marisha: (sings) We built Dis city on rock--
Taliesin: Nope. Nope.
Travis: I will shave both of your heads.
Taliesin: Thank you. Thank you. I'm behind this plan. It's a good plan.
Liam: Not in character.
Marisha: That was a bad song.
Travis: (electric razor noise)
Marisha: All right. Are we going?
Laura: Oh, shit.
Marisha: Are we going? Are we ready?
Laura: I mean, I was kind of joking, but sure. Let's go.
Marisha: All right.
Laura: What is this? What is this creepy, weird--
Liam: Who Dis?
Laura: Who Dis? Who dat?
Marisha: Who Dis? We gotta hold hands and then--
Taliesin: Wait are you above me or below me?
Travis: I'm above you.
Taliesin: All right.
Marisha: Good job. Bamf, City of Dis.
Matt: As you all hold hands, and you complete the ritual, the incantations leaving your lips, your vision suddenly grows dark as the magics of the spell pluck you from your home plane and thrust you into the space between.
Laura: Oh god.
Matt: Before you, a glow begins as you rocket towards an unexpected and incredible sight: an endless permeable tapestry, a tangled lattice of burning, divine fire appears before you, writhing and growing as you shoot towards it with incredible speed. You instinctively wince and curl, a promise of impact triggering your need to defend yourself, the dread as the air begins to heat around you. Then-- whoom-- you impact and pass through harmlessly, the heat fading. You glance over your shoulder to see it gone. You just passed through the Divine Gate.
Travis: The Divine Gate.
Matt: You glance over your shoulder to see it vanish, but then another flash of red magical power consumes your vision as your feet suddenly find hard ground. As the rush of powerful energies subside, the swirl of color and sudden thrust of movement coming to an abrupt halt, you find yourself standing within an extremely dark alleyway of some kind, framed by the exterior of dark stone buildings, climbing up above you for many, many stories. The cracked, thick cobblestones that mark the floor are littered with filth, slivers of cracked skulls and bones, as well as discarded refuse of some indeterminate origin. The air here is extremely hot, the walls and floors themselves around you seemingly the source. As you look, you glance out past both sides of this alleyway you've somehow arrived in, and the air distorts with intense heat as smoke rises from the streets themselves around you, the occasional ash or ember drifting through the air in front. Now, the dense city that surrounds you is incredibly massive; the walls, the structures that clutter the immense black metropolis surrounding you glow at the edges like heated glass. As you peek past and look further out, you can see the city is a broken maze of metal ramparts built into miles of steep hillsides and shattered towers framing an endless labyrinth of twisting alleyways. Within these streets, your eyes dart around to see dozens of molten, slithering masses of flesh shifting past the mouth of the alleyway, roiling, stepping with sick slapping sound, their faces twisted into a grotesque look of ever-retching horror, the sound escaping like a (gasps in pain) wince with an underlying screech and scream. You see behind them, cracking lashes over these masses of flesh, two large humanoid devils with spine-like protrusions that come jutting out of the sides of ash-white skin pulled tight against a massive skeletal form, the backs of their bodies forming these gargantuan scorpion-like tails that dangle, looming dangerously in front of them. As they step forward (whip sounds), two more lashes go, you see these fleshy masses (gasps) begin to clutter up again and move further past the exit to the alley as these bone devil-like creatures slowly crawl past. One of them stops for a second and continues walking as you all hold your breath. A sudden, horrid stench of decay fills the air as they pass. You hear them crackling in the distance as they shove along their tortured charges. As you glance up past them, you see the sky now: dozens of winged shadows glide through the air across a greenish, cloudy, barely lit sky that flashes with far distant cracks of lightning, occasionally brightening darker shapes, larger, looming in the distance. But one that draws your eye like a terrible dream, unable to look away upon noticing it, is an impossibly colossal tower of black iron and lead, stretching for hundreds of miles into the sky before vanishing into the dark, clouded expanse above you. You blink and turn around to look at the other side of the horizon, but there stands the exact same tower. You shift around; no matter your view of that horrid horizon, there stands the Iron Tower, the throne of the archdevil, Dispater, standing ever-vigilant over his Iron City of Dis. And that's where we're going to take a break.
Marisha: Good, I have to pee so bad!
Laura: Wait, I have a question! We did a Heroes' Feast last night, right?
Matt: Nope!
Marisha: Nope, we didn't!
Laura: I thought we said we were going to do it! I thought we were going to do it!
Matt: You gotta say you're going to do it. Nobody said it.
Laura: Didn't we say we were going to do it?!
Liam: Might have said it last game, but I don't remember it this game.
Travis: We didn't say it.
Laura: I thought we said it in the last game.
Liam: No, but then you have to follow through--
Laura: Shit balls mother bitch fuck balls!
Taliesin: It's okay, we're going to find an inn.
Matt: We're going to take a break here, guys, real fast. For the chat room, we're giving away this really awesome Wyrmwood.
Laura: Ah, that's some of my favorite wood right there!
Matt: It is the black and white ebony tabletop dice tray. It's fantastic. The word to use in the Twitch chat-- if you're in Alpha, move over to Twitch chat to make sure you put this in there to be part of this giveaway-- the word of the night is 'Doty', D-O-T-Y.
Laura: It should be 'ermahgerd,' but whatever.
Matt: They've already established it. Next episode.
Liam: Too bad, so sad.
Matt: Back here in a few minutes, and we'll pick up where we left off. See you guys shortly.
Travis: Holy shit! [break]
Matt: Welcome back. So, first, before it begins, our winner of the chatroom who's going to win the awesome dice box from Wyrmwood is Thaign, T-H-A-I-G-N.
Taliesin: Thaign. (cheering)
Matt: So congratulations, we'll get your information and get that sent to you, well done.
Laura: Fight!
Travis: The box is really sweet, We just saw it.
Laura: Yeah, we did.
Matt: All right, so, as you guys have just taken in as much of the scenery as you can here within someplace in an alley in the center of the City of Dis. Where no matter where you look, the creepy distant tower of iron seems to follow--
Laura: (whispers) Dis tower.
Matt: -- your vision no matter where on the horizon you glance. Ever watching, ever present.
Travis: That's weird.
Matt: What do you want to do?
Travis: Send up a flare.
Taliesin: While we can do that--
Laura: Let's put our hoods and cloaks on. Weren't you going to make yourself look like a tiefling?
Marisha: I, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I can do it right now. Is anyone watching?
Laura: Can I see if anybody is watching right now?
Taliesin: There's an omnipresent iron tower that's watching.
Laura: Is there a-- I mean, iron tower?
Taliesin: It's more the 'omnipresent' part that was really the point of that, but yes.
Laura: I thought you said an eye on a tower, and I was like, that's a different tower.
Matt: That's a different tower.
Taliesin: That's copyrighted, I'm well aware.
Marisha: Percy's got a good point. We might want to try and get out of the street. Get indoors. Yeah.
Laura: Can I perceive anywhere that looks like where travelers would stay?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: I'll do the same.
Laura: 30.
Liam: That's better than me. 24.
Matt: Okay. As you come up to the edge and lean against the wall, looking over the side. First, a moment passes, and as your shoulder hits the wall, you smell something burning as you glance back. Suddenly your shoulder, you can see the heat of the actual wall with just a brief contact to your body has begun to burn--
Travis: What?
Matt: -- and singe the outside of your cloak.
Laura: Oh crap!
Liam: Pat your hair, pat your hair, pat your hair, pat your hair.
Laura: Ow, ow, ow, ow.
Marisha: Wait, from just peeking around the corner?
Matt: From just leaning and touching the wall.
Travis: (groans) Ugh, it's Tucson.
Matt: You immediately notice that the bottom elements of your shoes are melting a little bit on the bottom with your steps.
Laura: Oh my gosh. Good thing rubber doesn't exist here.
Matt: The city itself is just this emanating source of perpetual heat. You're already sweating in the presence here, and as you glance around the corner and look at these buildings that rise up, you can see the architecture is hooked to the corner as the monolithic deep reds and blacks and grays that everything's built from, nothing belies an exterior that would seem to be welcoming to a traveling pack of people, at least not from your current standpoint.
Liam: And remind us, it's dim or it's not super bright here, is it? Dark?
Matt: No. It's not super dark either. Imagine a very very very very cloudy day around sunset.
Laura: Well. I don't know what to do other than to-- Does it look like there's anybody around us that can see us? Anybody watching?
Matt: (laughs) Are you trying to be stealthy?
Laura: I mean, I'm glancing subtly, trying to look like a badass but also stealthy.
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Laura: 18.
Matt: Okay. As you glance out to the side, you watch as two, what look to be humanoid, normal-sized humans, but deep red skin, black hair, horns curled at the front of the forehead and folded leathery wings at their sides, begin stepping off from one of the nearby roads that seems to go further into the city, and they walk past and one of them glances over and sees you. And they both just keep walking, seemingly not affected or alerted by your presence.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Looking about each side of the road as you go, there is a lot of movement through these streets, there are a lot of creatures, all sorts of weird shapes, you see a lot of that weird fleshy mass that you saw stepping forward, there's clusters of them all over. Many of them seem to be herded or pushed, some seem to be almost chained together in places and being dragged around.
Laura: Is it like that thing we ran into in-- Was it Kraghammer? Where were we where that thing was like a mash of bones and stuff?
Liam: Oh, in the field of bone shards.
Matt: Oh, right, right!
Laura: Is it like that?
Matt: No, imagine a very, very rotund person that is perpetually melting out of clay, and-- let me just show you a picture, actually.
Travis: Is it like a fondue pot of nine people in one?
Matt: There's a single face.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: It's like a walking shit sack, yeah?
Matt: Kind of.
Taliesin: Pizza the Hutt.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: That right there.
Laura: Ew! You can't even see legs!
Matt: It's just these, like a liquified person that is just a somewhat-shifting, burbling forth fleshy sack that occasionally-- you can see like the mouth and what looks almost like a face that is ever-screaming and writhing in pain.
Laura: That seems awful.
Travis: This guy needs some calcium.
Laura: Wait, imma put my glasses on so I can see it again! Oh, you already closed it.
Matt: I can bring it back up again, it's all right.
Travis: Right next to that beautiful picture of a--
Matt: Oh, yeah! Well, you've already seen the other creatures before.
Laura: Oh my gosh.
Matt: But that's your fun one there.
Laura: That is so creepy. Okay.
Matt: But they're being herded around. You see smaller creatures, you see imps, which you've encountered before: tiny winged leathery humanoid creatures that flutter around and seem to be more keeping a peripheral view, an overhead view of the goings-on of each one of these clusters of entities being pulled through the city. You see a handful attending each of these that move along, these humanoid devils that have long polearms, and from their dark, almost like bluish-purple skin, what looks to be almost like a series of jagged pointed tendrils that jut from the bottom of their chin and almost like writhe and curl as they push forward, occasionally shoving their weapon into the side of these things and just getting them back on track as they wander off.
Laura: Do I see anything that looks like normal Exandrians? People that are just like--
Matt: At the very-- at this moment, no. And you get the sense that, at least, they're not super common. (laughs) Almost everyone that is currently walking through the street in this particular intersection seems to be of some sort of devilish heritage.
Laura: Right. I go back to our group and say, well, I was spotted for sure. Nobody seemed to pay me very much mind, but there's nobody here that looks like us. I don't know if we've happened to pop into a particular area of the city that is inhabited mostly by devils, but that's where we are.
Travis: Do we know what layer we're in?
Taliesin: Dis would be--
Marisha: What layer of Hell? It's like, the third, fourth? Second.
Liam: Dis is two.
Travis: Oh, we gotta find the--
Liam: What level Dis?
Travis: Open market, right?
Laura: Yes, the market.
Travis: Yep.
Laura: Oh, right.
Marisha: What?
Taliesin: If we find the market, we'll find an inn. Find an inn, we'll find a place to drink and get a room.
Travis: Please don't make me be the one that remembered all the shit about Dis. I mean, I am The Grand Poobah de Doink of All of Dis and That, so.
Laura: Oh, that's true, you would know!
Travis: Y'all motherfuckers is coming with me.
Taliesin: Oh no, I can already see that going poorly.
Laura: I feel like we should put our hoods up and just generally act like we belong here.
Liam: Just walk with purpose.
Marisha: Do you think if I do an Alter Self here that people will notice?
Laura: Can you do it quickly? I mean--
Marisha: Yeah, I can do it at will.
Laura: We're in an alleyway.
Taliesin: All right, let's all make the changing circle.
Marisha: Yeah, just shield me, like we're changing at the beach.
Laura: Can you just lean in front of Keyleth?
Marisha: Look casual. Don't touch the wall, you'll burn!
Travis: Ahh!
Matt: Which actually, you do immediately take four points of fire damage as you do so.
Liam: Aww, poor baby.
Marisha: Aww, buddy!
Laura: Put some mayonnaise on it, you'll feel better.
Marisha: Yeah, it's true.
Travis: Mayonnaise (squelching noise).
Matt: So, are you changing your appearance?
Marisha: Yeah, I'm going to--
Laura: Can you imagine how sour Grog must smell all the time? He just has mayonnaise on him.
Liam: Curdled dairy at all times.
Travis: Or how much I love it? Sam said he can cast Alter Self on himself plus three others.
Matt: Yes, I'm working on that.
Travis: Okay.
Marisha: Oh, he can do it on others?
Matt: Yeah, people who can actually cast the spell, they can cast on other people, but you as a druid ability, you can only do it right on yourself.
Marisha: Oh, copy. Cool. I'm going to look like kind of a vague cross between Whitney and Zahra.
Matt: Okay, and as you do that, Taryon immediately goes, "Oh, great idea!" and he turns himself into-- he pulls out a small object and clicks it for a second, as it does, his form shifts into an almost identical-looking--
Travis: Female?
Matt: (laughs) No, a male tiefling. And then goes, "Who else, who else? Who else would like my blessing?"
Marisha: You know? Hold off on that. I'm not saying it's not a good idea, but maybe we should workshop it. What--
Laura: I want to be one.
Matt: "I knew you would!" And he comes forward and pulls another one out and as he breaks this small capsule in your direction, this burst of arcane energy hits you and all of a sudden, your form shifts into an almost identical-looking tiefling; same colors--
Laura: No, change it up-- stop, Taryon!
Matt: "I wh-- okay! Ah!" and he tries to finagle with it for the last second as the spell just about takes hold of your shape goes slightly more, and he goes, "Uh, blue?" and you're a little more blue. It's the tail-end, like the "Eh?"
Marisha: Hang on, hang on, we don't want to be--
Liam: No, I'm talking it out. You can do that to how many more of us?
Laura: Two more people.
Matt: "Two more!"
Laura: (laughs) Kidding, he knew.
Taliesin: I'll take one, why not?
Laura: Yeah, Grog can look like Grog.
Liam: I feel like a handful of tieflings and Grog is better than us as we are.
Taliesin: I would agree.
Matt: He goes ahead and takes one--
Laura: But make him more red. Pink!
Marisha: Hang on, hang on, how long does Alter Self last when it's just a spell? Because if we were going to try and eat some food, and take a break, then maybe we should do that first? Are we still doing that, or are we just going head-on into this? Feel like our plan's already dissolving.
Laura: No no, we need to get a-- we need to eat.
Liam: Yeah, we're in a back alley.
Travis: Heroes' Feast.
Liam: We gotta walk through this town.
Marisha: I can find it too, Matt.
Matt: I'm looking it up, hold on.
Marisha: Alter Self lasts for one hour.
Matt: Correct, concentration though, right?
Laura: Okay, well that'd-- concentration?
Matt: Yeah, and so--
Taliesin: If we go into a fight, it doesn't matter. I'll take grey.
Matt: "Well, by all means!" and he hands you the small capsule-- It's almost like he enchants the coins, you're actually casting the spells on yourself, so you are concentrating on the spell.
Marisha: Okay, so I guess we will get through this city and eat a Heroes' Feast when we get to our destination?
Laura: Yeah, and then we'll just Alter Self again.
Liam: So I can do this on my own then?
Matt: "Yeah, by all means."
Liam: Fuck it, all white.
Laura: White?
Matt: You become an albino--
Travis: Whoa!
Matt: -- tiefling of your own intrinsic design.
Laura: Way to totally blend in.
Travis: Cool!
Marisha: Very, very unique.
Laura: Good job, rogue.
Liam: Do you think everybody here dresses like the Raven Queen's butler? I mean--
Matt: You have encountered an albino tiefling before.
Taliesin: We have.
Marisha: Have we?
Liam: Smartypants.
Taliesin: Lillith.
Laura: Lillith was an albino?
Marisha: Lillith.
Laura: That's why she was so pale.
Marisha: She was so cute!
Liam: You can say you're sorry.
Laura: I'm not.
Liam: You're not? You should be.
Laura: I'm not!
Liam: You're wrong, though.
Taliesin: Right! Let's find ourselves a marketplace and an inn!
Marisha: And a rakshasa.
Taliesin: Let's go. I am going to step out into the street.
Laura: Act like you belong here. Act tough and cool.
Taliesin: With pomp and circumstance and purpose.
Marisha: I join Percy.
Taliesin: Please don't write things down while I do that.
Laura: Oh no!
Taliesin: That's not nice!
Laura: Act like you belong.
Matt: Why, whatever do you mean?
Laura: People will buy it. We just walk looking straight ahead; don't look around too much.
Marisha: Yep yep!
Liam: 10% what you say, 90% how you say it.
Taliesin: I act like me, I think I'm going to be fine.
Liam: I act like Percy.
Taliesin: He's also going to be fine.
Matt: As you guys step out into the main road, you can see the cracked stones that make up the walkway here. Even just walking through here, though you feel confident in your placement, the presence here you're still getting used to, and it's something about the air, or you feel just a little dizzy as you're still adjusting to the heat, to the placement, to the strange ever-so-faintly non-Euclidian structure to the landscape around you. It's forcing you to consciously right your posture and pay more attention to your surroundings than you normally would. There's just something about the presence here that's unwelcoming. You can see there are a number of other streets that head in any direction. It's hard to tell which way is further into the city and which is further out, it's so vast. Even the City of Brass or Ank'harel in their size, none of them seem to really scrape the surface of the sheer immensity of the City of Dis by comparison.
Liam: This should be easy.
Taliesin: I wouldn't know from reading anything, I wouldn't have a vague idea of where to go? I have a theory at the moment, but it's pretty light.
Matt: From what you read, it was mostly about the structure of the society, there was no well-written cartographer's experience--
Taliesin: Hitchhiker's Guide to the City of Dis. I say we head to the tower.
Laura: The tower's in every direction.
Taliesin: So, whichever direction it is, that's the way we'll head.
Travis: Wow. That's true.
Liam: So it's that way.
Marisha: And also that way!
Liam: Some people go both ways.
Taliesin: I feel like if I were going to build a giant tower that couldn't be ignored, I would have that be the center of anything and every place. It may not even matter.
Liam: Let's take a stroll and see a lay of the land.
Marisha: As we start taking a stroll, can I do a nature check to see if I can spot any native beasts, insects, etc.? Native animals, birds.
Matt: Make a nature check.
Marisha: Critters, and the usual.
Matt: Sure. This would be more perception, actually because you're trying to pick up details in the scenery.
Marisha: Perception check?
Matt: Nature to understand if you knew what they were.
Marisha: That's a shithole roll  14.
Matt: 14?
Marisha: Total.
Matt: You do, occasionally, catch what looks to be some element of small, flying, buzzing pests, but they're different than what you're used to. The brief glances you get of one that comes nearby, it seems to have eight sets of wings and some horrid-looking pincers on the front and looks like a nasty denizen of the scenery. And immediately, you're like, "Ugh!"
Travis: I lean over to Vex, and I say, oi. In an effort to blend in, should we just kill a random person?
Laura: I feel like only if it's called for, yeah?
Travis: I just thought of it, so does that mean it's called for? Is that what you do here?
Laura: No, probably not just yet.
Travis: They might really like it here.
Laura: I know, they could, but they also thrive on order.
Travis: Oh.
Laura: And I feel like that's a little out of order.
Travis: Right. I'm glad I asked you.
Laura: Me too.
Travis: Okay.
Laura: Keep doing that.
Travis: Asking you?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Why is our life so much like Vaudeville?
Marisha: You do like the theater.
Liam: That's true.
Marisha: Do you think a Pass Without a Trace spell would be beneficial here?
Laura: It's concentration.
Taliesin: Why try to be complicated?
Liam: Let's just own this.
Taliesin: Let's own it.
Liam: Take a walk. Percival.
Taliesin: No fear!
Liam: Strut!
Taliesin: I strut.
Laura: (gasps) Maybe we can drop a little bit of dust of tracelessness behind us, though, so we're-- no?
Taliesin: No, let's not make a scene. I'm going to look for signs to look for the sorts of people who are walking around, if there seems to be a flow of traffic, if people seem to be going in a direction, coming from a direction.
Matt: Okay!
Taliesin: Getting a sense of the city.
Matt: While heading towards the tower?
Taliesin: While heading towards the tower to make sure that I am trying to get a lay of the land so maybe I can see if we should veer off in a direction. I'm also looking for humans, someone who might speak Common.
Liam: And, are there stores, are there businesses? Are these all non-descript buildings, or does it all just look like the same shit? Or is it--
Matt: They are varying, but there's nothing here that looks like a welcoming shopfront. The structures are varied, but any of the signs or any of the scrollings that you see chiseled into the stonework and metal is not a language--
Liam: So, it's like a hellish financial district, there's just nothing there.
Matt: Loosely, yeah. It looks like Detroit on Halloween.
Liam: Purge!
Travis: Love you, Detroit.
Taliesin: It's been a while.
Matt: Yeah, man. Devil's Night, it's great.
Liam: Hell.
Matt: So, you follow. As Doty's (stomping) behind Tary, staying as close to the middle of all of you guys and shielding himself between your various bodies. You continue to follow Percival as you step through, paying attention. Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Laura: I'm going to keep an eye out for anybody that looks like they're noticing us too much, anything.
Liam: Yeah, same.
Laura: Of course.
Travis: Natural snitch.
Taliesin: Yes, of course.
Marisha: Natural snitch!
Matt: You are--
Taliesin: -- a problem.
Matt: You are a problem.
Taliesin: I may have to-- I'm aware that there's a lifespan on this die, that I may eventually need to put it away.
Liam: We are in hell. If it's going to come out anywhere--
Travis: If you roll one more natural 20, it's just going to dissolve into gold dust and float away.
Taliesin: Heads.
Matt: It's okay. One of these days, your contract will come to me.
Taliesin: I'm well aware.
Liam: If you lift up Taliesin's mohawk, you can see the little tiny, little points. Little horns.
Marisha: Yep.
Matt: Or the maze. You walk for the next ten or so minutes. Two things you notice, looking for patterns and elements of the city around. There does seem to be a general direction of, not individuals as such, but a lot of these fleshy masses, which you've read about in the book, they're referred to as lemures. They are fallen damned souls that have been tortured into this specific form that are the lowest base level of devil that exists here.
Marisha: Just a fleshy mass, Liam.
Liam: I want to go to bed.
Matt: But a lot of them seem to be going in this certain direction. It's difficult to maintain focus on the direction of the tower if you have to avert your eyes. However, if you're looking in a particular direction, it doesn't follow your vision when you move, it's whenever you have to look away and change your perspective on the horizon, that's when it appears elsewhere. So, you assert yourself in a direction and maintain that way. After about ten, 15 minutes, there's no discernable gaining of distance on the tower.
Liam: Oh, for fuck's sake.
Taliesin: In that case, I'm going to find a lemure and inquire sternly of directions.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Sternly?
Matt: As you're walking, you see there are three of them currently that are chained together with two of these weird black, jagged spiked collar and midsection bands that are jammed into their sides and they're all joined and the hooks and the chains are screwed into the side of this building. They do not appear to be currently attended at the moment. And, as you approach one is there like (gurgling).
Taliesin: Kuthok.
Matt: (pained gurgling)
Taliesin: Marketplace.
Matt: (pained gurgling)
Taliesin: Point.
Liam: That is fucking disgusting.
Matt: There is no language. It looks like it can't really communicate.
Laura: Oh god.
Marisha: Wow.
Laura: That's really sad.
Marisha: It kind of is.
Taliesin: Well, that's depressing. All right. What building are they currently chained to?
Matt: It's about a three-story tall, long tower. It's long on one side and then half the size on the other, and it juts up like a monolith that comes from these two hooks at the top. There's no signs or particular language on its exterior, but there does appear to be a doorway, a big, black metal iron doorway that is closed maybe a foot to the left of them. You're--
Laura: Does it look like people are coming in and out of that building?
Matt: If you wait a moment, you can find out.
Laura: Maybe we can post up and see, or just walk on in.
Taliesin: I wouldn't recommend walking on in.
Liam: We're walking and nothing's changing. Do we want to stay put for a while and see what happens?
Laura: Well, our surroundings are changing, we're just not--
Matt: (crashing noise) At this point, the door shifts open with a slam, there's a burst of phosphorous-type clouded fume that drifts out from the interior as, curling down, looming from the inside, another one of those large, lanky, skeletal-looking devils with the giant scorpion tail lurches out, and sees all of you clustered over, and begins to rush up quickly and grabs the side of where the hook is jammed into the wall and just breaks it out with its bare strength, and yanks the lemures closer. (speaks Infernal) You see its jaw almost seems to disconnect and unhinge for a moment as it gets impossibly long and its tongue (slurping noise) and begins to just walk away from you guys down the road, dragging these lemures behind it from the chains.
Laura: As soon as he opened the door, I wanted to get a look inside of where he came out.
Matt: Perception check.
Laura: It was almost a 20, but it was a 25.
Matt: 25? You get a very brief glance on the inside. Very dark, red light seems to slightly light the interior. It looks almost like a shelf of some kind. That's as much of a view as you got. It was just some sort of a shelf, bit of furniture in the side there.
Laura: Fuck.
Liam: Hotis, where the fuck are you?
Laura: Where's a fucking place we can have a stupid feast?
Marisha: If we can get to a safe, quiet place, I can do a Locate Creature spell and see if I can find him. I can also scry on him, but I need to--
Laura: You need something--
Marisha: Something not in this back alley of a street.
Liam: Did that devil who just left leave the door wide open, or did it shut it?
Matt: No, the door slammed open and as it walked towards you guys, slammed it shut behind it.
Taliesin: Which way did the creature go?
Matt: Loosely the same direction as where you were walking for the tower.
Laura: Keep walking in that direction--
Taliesin: Keep walking in that direction--
Taliesin: See if we can gently catch up, just to the vague periphery, so if I can see them, then great, and if not, oh well.
Matt: Are you following this group? Is that what's going on?
Taliesin: (indecisive noise) From a gentle long distance, and not with great intent.
Marisha: Was he talking to the lemures, or to us?
Matt: Talking to you guys.
Marisha: To back the fuck off? Okay.
Matt: You were clustered around, apparently, his charge or--
Marisha: His, yeah, his people. "Back the fuck off from my people", yeah.
Taliesin: That was a chain devil?
Matt: No, this was a bone devil.
Taliesin: That was a bone devil? All right.
Matt: I can show you what that looks like.
Travis: Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah!
Marisha: This means I could theoretically turn into him now that I've met them, right?
Matt: Technically, yeah.
Taliesin: That won't go poorly.
Marisha: Nope!
Travis: Get. The fuck. Out of my nightmares.
Taliesin: (Minnesotan accent) "Hello, we're from outta town, y'know?"
Laura: (Minnesotan accent) "Oh, don't ya know?"
Marisha: (Minnesotan accent) "Oh, don't ya know?"
Taliesin: (Minnesotan accent) "Oh, don't ya know?"
Marisha: (Minnesotan accent) "Yo, I got my Polaroid with me."
Matt: "Oh, hello."
All: "Oh, hello."
Travis: And we all fall out.
Taliesin: And we all die. Too much Fargo lately.
Matt: As you tail this from a distance, go ahead and make a stealth check, Percival.
Taliesin: Well, that's-- 15.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm not-- (indecisive noise) Keeping my distance.
Marisha: He's D-Rollin'.
Laura: They see me-- no.
Marisha: I love Laura bailing so fast.
Matt: As you guys are following Percival's lead along the roads here, the heat is starting to really crawl under your armor-- those of you who are wearing it, you're fine, Grog. You watch as the lemures are dragged off into an alley to the right.
Taliesin: If they go to an alley, then I'm not going to go down an alley. I'm going to walk by and maybe look down the alley from across the street, but I'm not-- I'm trying to stay on main roads.
Matt: You make a large arc around and glance over. You can see them being pulled down the alleyway, and then to the left around the corner.
Taliesin: No-- That feels like a trap to me. That feels like the sort of thing I would do if I wanted to shank someone in an alley.
Liam: I've done that, actually, that's true.
Taliesin: I knew you had.
Laura: Do I see any buildings that look like people are coming in and out raucously?
Matt: Not yet, no.
Liam: What if we walked for a while and looked back. Let's give it ten minutes, and then we'll figure something out.
Taliesin: We'll take a left at the next main thoroughfare.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: He's going to keep an eye out for anybody watching us.
Matt: Perception check.
Laura: While I'm looking for buildings.
Liam: 27.
Matt: Okay. You do hear the occasional screech in the air, as you see these winged entities in the distance just (screeching). As they just dive through and around the top of the city.
Marisha: Do we recognise what they are? Are they wyverns? What are they?
Matt: No, there's a humanoid aspect to their bodies but they're just beyond the general red glow of the city to make out their details.
Marisha: I'm going to try and start focusing on that for the next walk. When one gets down close, I want to see if I can see what it is?
Matt: Okay. Some of them look to be imps. Armored imps. These tiny little things that dive through. Some appear to be larger. Some have long tails that draw behind them, their giant leathery wings, and they just glide through. You get a glance at one that seems to have a human torso and legs that are hanging at its sides as it swoops through, like a sentinel just watching over the city. A lot seem to be doing arcs to and from the tower as you watch these patterns--
Laura: I could fly up in the air and see if I can spot a market.
Marisha: I could Beast Shape into something that's natural--
Liam: That's better.
Taliesin: Is it?
Liam: Better? Well, I don't like anybody going up.
Matt: Ten minutes' travel, Percival, by the way? Still not anywhere near closer to the tower.
Marisha: Weird thought  what if we try to walk away from the tower?
Taliesin: There is no walking away from the tower.
Liam: This is stupid. What if I think about being in front of the tower?
Matt: Do you just think about it?
Liam: Yeah. That's it.
Matt: Okay, so you walk towards the tower, but thinking about being there. So you guys keep walking for a bit. You get about two blocks before you see the next major road turns to the right, and there you can see, this road you've been on, which seemed sparse as far as the denizens of the City of Dis-- As soon as this big roadway opens to the right of you, the buildings seem to grow larger and taller, and they seem to almost twist and collide the higher they get. They're all constructed from metal and iron, but there's almost an organic, natural curvature at times that seems warped, causing a few to almost seem to collide and jut into each other at their peak. Many of them have these big, black metal chains that dangle from the outside, and giant, evil-looking hooks mounted onto the front of the buildings, some of which currently hold lemures that sit there and writhe on it, like a punishment for something they did. In the roads themselves, a lot of them have pikes jutting up, and it looks like sections of the road cracked open, and there are natural rock spikes and formations that have protruded out from the ancient construct of the city. But people just walk around them as they go. And you do see more people down this way. You see more of those devil-like creatures, you see a few tieflings in the distance. You see a few humans. You see a few fair-skinned folk wandering through. You see that same bone devil that earlier you saw emerge from the side alleyway about two blocks up, still clutching those three other lemures behind it by chain. It walks up to another bone devil that seems to be sitting off to the side, and is in the process of scratching the side of its horrible, bony chin and jaw. It comes up to it, and they both speak and snarl. You cannot read their lips, because they don't really have lips, and you don't know Infernal. But they both almost become a unit, and walking side-by-side head further down that path, with the three chained lemures behind them. Glancing over, you do see, as you've been focusing on the ground and around you, look up, and the tower has shifted position down to the end of that roadway. You thinking of it--
Laura: Was that what did it?
Matt: No. It's still the same distance it ever has been. In the process of losing its sight from your peripheral, due to other buildings closing off your vision-- As soon as you lose sight of it entirely and reassess where your vision is on the horizon, there the tower is once more.
Liam: Does it always feel like it's dead ahead of us, all the time?
Laura: No, it's always off to the side, right?
Matt: It changes. As soon as you become aware of the horizon, it becomes oriented wherever that awareness is.
Laura: How about I watch any of the people, the humanoids, or anything like that, that are together-- Can I see them talking, does it look like any of them are speaking Common, if I'm trying to read their lips--
Matt: They're quite a ways away from you. You're not able to make out any detail.
Laura: I'll walk in the direction, just get in the area that they're in, so that I can try to read their lips.
Marisha: Once again, I want to keep an eye out, because I had a shitty perception check, for any birds, bats, beasts that I see flying?
Matt: No birds, no bats, no beasts. There isn't a whole lot of indigenous wildlife within the Hells, it seems. Or at least nothing that would be considered a beast.
Marisha: Insects?
Matt: Even the insect you saw earlier, or the insect-like creature, it had twisted, fiendish qualities to it on a very micro scale.
Liam: That was an ambassador.
Marisha: It probably was! That's the thing, it probably was!
Liam: I'm going to trail my sister by like ten feet and watch her back.
Matt: You're moving closer to get a view of lip-reading. What's everyone else doing?
Travis: Is the ground as hot as the walls are?
Matt: It is. Even as you're walking, you've grown somewhat accustomed to the uncomfortable heat that your boots are currently mustering. Thankfully, you guys are wearing footwear designed to endure environmental hazards, or magical footwear, for some of you. But you imagine if you were to stand still for too long in one place, it would probably end up damaging any sort of regular footwear worn.
Travis: Jesus. It's like a parking lot in Texas.
Taliesin: Venice in August. Beach, not--
Travis: Is there anything about the humans in particular? Are they wearing anything unusual, or do they have any company with them that might denote why they're allowed to roam about?
Matt: The two that you see ahead of you, a man and a woman, the man has stark white hair that is almost wet, and brushed very tight to the back of the skull, with a series of black and red markings or tattoos, or some sort of scar, that goes across one side of his face. A very, very thick nose piercing that connects to a chain that links to the back of his ear and is wearing layered, black leather armor. The woman, who is currently conversing with him on the other side, has long black hair with a shock of white that curls to the front. Her skin is a deep reddish brown, tan color, and her armor is a dull gray, like a cloth-patterned armor? But she seems to have at her side a very wicked-looking scimitar that is hanging at her belt, and she rests her arm on it, casually. You look just past them, and you can see they have two sacks resting on the ground as they're having this conversation, and a cage.
Travis: Empty?
Matt: The cage is not empty, there is something inside, but you're not quite close enough to make out any details. You can just see there is a cage and some shape inside. You make a perception check.
Laura: That's cocked. (deep voice) 27.
Matt: I will say make a stealth check as well. This is to both get close enough to witness their conversation but not be noticed as overtly trying to--
Laura: 17.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: That was bad.
Matt: You saddle up and instinctually go to lean on the wall. And go (winces). This is not conducive to your usual casual tactics. But you pay attention and you catch bits and pieces of their conversation. They're arguing about price. They are both talking about how much it's worth. Is it even worth bringing it here? We've come this far. We already have the offer. Might as well go through with it. One of them talks about how they hate the Fetters.
Laura: The Fetters?
Matt: The Fetters.
Travis: (whispers) I bet it's one of those little dudes we had.
Matt: Then one of them goes, let's get going, this place makes me feel uncomfortable.
Laura: I still can't see what they have in the cage?
Matt: You can glance just barely past and you can see what looks to be some sort of a humanoid. Naked. You can't make out much more detail. You can't tell if it's male or female. It appears to be medium- to light-skinned. You can't get much detail beyond that from this distance, unfortunately.
Marisha: How big is this cage?
Matt: It's maybe four foot by three foot. A little smaller, actually. It would be more like three foot by two foot, because it looks pretty cramped.
Laura: I'm going to walk up to them. Before they walk away.
Matt: As they both start turning to walk, one of them--
Laura: I'm going to be casual as I do it. I just walk up.
Matt: You can see there is a couple of chains fixed to the front of this cage and there is a handle of some kind that the guy lifts. There are small wheels you can now see that are fixed onto the cage that you can now see as it rolls--
Laura: I don't even look at the cage at all, like I don't give a shit about it. And I walk up and I say--
Matt: The woman immediately turns and sees you, and her hand moves from resting on the pommel of the blade to grasping the handle.
Liam: Same.
Laura: Oh! Are you with me?
Liam: Ten feet behind you.
Laura: I signal at you to come over. I don't want to look like I'm talking to the people, yet. I'm just walking in their direction, and I lean over to my brother and say, God I hate this place, don't you?
Liam: Yep. Pretty much.
Laura: (exhales) It's so hot. I wish we were back home.
Liam: Everything fucking looks the same.
Laura: Right.
Liam: Nondescript bullshit.
Laura: I make eye contact with the woman as I say it.
Matt: Make a subtle deception check. They are intensely paranoid, it seems.
Laura: 30-- no, 20-- 21.
Matt: She stands there, and keeps watching you. The guy who was pulling the cage stops, turns around and looks. You can see the chain swing and dangle for a second before coming to a stop as he glances back, his eyes iris-less. Just dark pupils with white around them. And he just-- not a snarl, but a very intense stare, he doesn't seem to be put at ease, but he's definitely paying attention. (cell phone rings)
Laura: Can I help you?
Matt: As he silences his cell phone. "I'm sorry, what?"
Laura: You were staring at me, darling.
Matt: "You, unless I'm mistaken, approached our space."
Laura: Oh, you had claimed it. Sorry. Everything here's claimed.
Matt: She turns around, and gives him the expression of, fucking shove off, and he takes the chain, and begins to tug it and they both walk away.
Laura: That didn't go as well as I planned. (laughs) I just want to find a fucking tavern!
Matt: You just let them walk away?
Laura: Yeah, but as they walk away I want to look at the fucking cage and really get a good look at what they had.
Matt: Glancing inside, you're not sure how old or how young, but there is a definitely beaten, wounded young man. Between the streaks of blood and visible gashes and lash marks, the skin seems pretty vibrant and clean. This is a creature that was taken here. This person was taken here against their interest and is being dragged in a direction.
Laura: All right, before they walk off I go, oi! You made a deal for that one yet?
Matt: They turn back and look at you. "Yeah."
Laura: Where do you go? I have something I'd like to sell as well.
Matt: "We don't share our clients." And they both just keep walking back in the direction they were going.
Laura: It's not working. I'm trying so hard.
Marisha: You're doing great. It was amazing.
Liam: Hey, man.
Laura: (whispers) Oh god!
Liam: What about-- I want to get off the street. I'm tired of walking. We've been walking all--
Matt: He's about 20 feet from you.
Liam: We've been walking all day.
Matt: He's not even turning around. They are just walking away.
Liam: Are you whispering that to me?
Laura: Yes, I am whispering to you. It didn't work. We find other people.
Travis: I am currently spitting on the ground and watching it evaporate.
Matt: And it does. It's like (psh).
Travis: Ooh!
Laura: I mean, do I see a tavern around here? It seems like a busy sort of street.
Matt: (laughs) You can keep walking and looking for some sort of a tavern.
Taliesin: Are there any other people around? I'm going to give a roll.
Matt: Sure, I mean, there are people, those are the only two humans that you had seen in the vicinity. Again, you saw--
Taliesin: Tieflings?
Matt: -- you saw a handful of tieflings a little even further down the road and you see a few humanoid-like devils that are just covered in barbs and spines that seem to walk in spurts, like they'll step, step, and then dash a few steps and then stop and then glance around nervously and then continue forward. Roughly human-sized, maybe a little smaller.
Marisha: Is everyone here afraid that they're going to be murdered at any corner?
Taliesin: No, obviously-- just us. Let's try this proper. I'm going to start walking and see if I can make eye contact with anything.
Marisha: You're going to try to make eye contact with these people?
Matt: Are you guys following them or are you staying back with your party?
Taliesin: Well, I am walking in their direction anyway--
Matt: You guys have caught up to them now and Percival is apparently walking forward so--
Laura: Percy, where are you going?
Taliesin: Just trying to--
Marisha: Did you notice no one here makes eye contact with you? It's really weird.
Taliesin: Well, they did.
Laura: I follow in the general direction of those people that walked off.
Taliesin: Yeah. I'm going to head toward the tieflings as well. Which I think is the same direction anyway, so.
Matt: Yeah. As you are following from a distance these two humans, the two tieflings that were conversing split off. One walks across the way and vanishes into an alley. The other one joins, not the humans, but seems to be walking in the same direction if maybe about 20 or so feet ahead of them.
Marisha: As we walk a little bit, I just want to covertly heat up my hands, light them up a little bit and then touch the wall to see if it burns me as well a little bit. Just graze my fingers along it.
Matt: The flames that you create from your hand are magically produced and insulated from your body because you are the source of their magic by the blessing of the emberstone that you struck. It does not unfortunately protect you from the searing heat from the building as you reach out. (sizzle) You immediately take four points of fire damage.
Marisha: Even though my mantle of the tempest, I ignore extreme heat?
Matt: You do ignore extreme heat from a general air, like being on a desert. It doesn't prevent you from touching a fire and burning your hands.
Marisha: It's what I was curious about.
Liam: Stove. Stove. Stove! Stove! Ahh!
Marisha: S'good, s'good. It feels good. It feels good. Stove cat.
Taliesin: Stove cat.
Matt: Some of the rolling clouds, you hear a distant clap of thunder roll through the vicinity as the occasional flashes of bluish-white and green ash clouds on top of you.
Liam: Those humans are both gone, out of sight?
Matt: No, they're still in sight, you guys are slowly following from a distance.
Laura: You said they split off? They split away from each other?
Matt: The humans kept going. The tieflings that he was following, there were two of them that were loosely stepping in, they split off. One vanished into an alley, the other began walking in the same direction.
Liam: Do we talk to this guy? Because I'm about to. We're fucking dicking around, here.
Taliesin: I'm just going to ask somebody where to find a pub or an inn. Not trying to be coy. Not trying to be interesting.
Liam: We can't pretend shit here. Let's just go talk to them.
Marisha: Wait, are we interesting?
Taliesin: Yes, we are interesting.
Marisha: Oh!
Matt: You watch as three different flying imp-like creatures suddenly dart off the nearby buildings and dart past you, and you watch as the two humans stop and drag themselves off to the side. The tiefling that was walking not far ahead of them takes a few steps back and waits patiently. As you watch, stepping through one of the adjacent roadways, about three or four small devils that have these barbed spines that stick out of their body in all directions come walking through, carrying these little spears.
Laura: We step off to the side.
Taliesin: I push everybody to the side and down.
Matt: As a procession behind them you see a familiar creature. You see a massive, rippling red-muscled pit fiend come stepping through.
Marisha: Oh no!
Laura: Not the one! Not that one!
Marisha: It's not the same one?
Travis: He said a familiar creature.
Matt: And the creature is familiar. You're not--
Laura: It doesn't mean it's the pit fiend.
Matt: But you see it begins lurching through the street, strolling like it's walking with purpose to whatever business destination it has. But it has an entourage around it of lesser demons that are all clearing the street as it walks. You see the respect that a creature of this strength has even within the center of this sphere of hell. Behind it, you see a very large orb, about ten feet in diameter. It's a glistening, golden glass and on the inside, it seems to have what look to be almost a hundred different screaming faces pressed against it from the inside that are merging and swirling. As it's being pulled by these lesser demons behind it, the pit fiend's just walking like it's the middle of its work day. As it crosses the path, the demons and the cart continue past out of view, and eventually the various entities walking the street before pick up their pace and continue on like nothing happened.
Taliesin: I kind of like it here.
Marisha: I subtly, as he goes by, study and examine what he looks like, the pit fiend.
Matt: It's very similar in size and shape, design, musculature as the one you battled in the City of Brass. There are a couple of pretty quick-to-pick-out marks and changes in the bony crest and horns on its head, and the coloration on its wings go to a dark, deep purple as opposed to the bright, vibrant red of the last one. So, it is a different entity than the one you battled. You continue walking and you're starting to notice, as you follow these people forward, that the further you walk in this path, and already the sides of the alleys and street corners and such were pretty littered with broken refuse pushed into the corners, but the further you step into this, the more and more destitute and filthy the city seems to become. You begin to see more and more lesser demons just sitting off to the side, just lazily looking around for some sort of impulse to kick in, and grab something that's dangling from the bottom of whatever food chain exists here. You see more lemures that are in the process of being grabbed and fought over, that have just dwindled over time, like their fleshy, tortured soul mass has been abused and slowly disintegrated and has been left to be fought over by whatever exists in this area. The buildings themselves begin becoming less these large monolithic towers of black iron and more resembling sagging, stone-like swamp structures that have a blackish-purple moss that seems to seep from the side; the air almost becomes more humid with the heat as you pass through. The streets are becoming far more dense. You are seeing more humanoids of different races, you're seeing more of the lesser devils coalescing in these center spaces, and you do see what appears to be some semblance of what you would call a devilish tavern. There is no music, there is no lively chatter, but you do see what looks to be chairs, you look to see what seems to be a common area where some entities are sitting and partaking in food of some kind.
Marisha: As we move through the streets, I just want to trail behind Vax and take a look at if anyone's reacting to him unusually, or taking notice of him.
Matt: Okay. Make a perception check
Marisha: Don't fuck me, Gil. Okay, yeah, 24.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: It's all right, it's all right.
Matt: As you're keeping an eye out, the gleaming bright albino tiefling does seem to, at least, have caught the eye of a handful of humanoid-- it looks like humans, you see they're trailing behind you by a good hundred or so feet--
Marisha: They are following us?
Matt: -- but they appear to be following you. One appears to be a-- it looks dwarvish in how stout it is, but it's hard to tell at this distance, and the humanoid creature to the right of it is human-sized, but it is wrapped in a wreath of dark chains that seem to cover most features, the face and the torso. You can see bits of skin and muscle peeking through, but it's just an entire robe of very tightly-wound chains, just massed around its torso and legs and arms.
Laura: Ugh, this is like Hellraiser!
Taliesin: I was having a Hellraiser moment.
Liam: Perfectly healthy, perfectly normal.
Marisha: Does he seem to be following slightly behind in step of the dwarvish-maybe-creature?
Matt: They're staying in step with each other, but you--
Laura: Oh, it's a buddy movie!
Marisha: Yeah, buddy cop?
Liam: It's like Fox and the Hound.
Matt: But they're both very directly fixed and have been for a little while, on the white tiefling that has just walked by.
Liam: How far is this tavern from us?
Matt: When you notice it at this point, as you're walking actually forward, it's about 30 feet off.
Marisha: I come over the comms and I say, hey, Vaxy-poo, I think we're being followed, I kind of feel like they can smell you.
Liam: Me specifically?
Laura: Well, you are quite lovely, brother. Into the tavern? It's up ahead.
Taliesin: Into the tavern.
Marisha: Keep an eye out, it's like a kind of stout, maybe dwarvish man and a humanoid creature covered in chains.
Laura: I glance back and see them.
Liam: Thank you for the heads-up, I'm going to go in.
Laura: Yeah. I stand outside the tavern with Grog and wait for everybody to get inside.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I go stepping inside the tavern.
Marisha: I slip inside as well.
Matt: Okay, as you guys, and Taryon follows suit. "Ah, Doty, do whatever he does." He points to Grog. Doty steps next to you.
Liam: What a setup. (laughter)
Matt: As you guys enter, the low-burning, orangish-red glow of the interior shows you a slab slate floor. Across you see tables that are carved from similar deep obsidian bedrock-type material. The edges of them almost hook upward, and within the inside, you can see a handful of these similar spined devils, that you've seen as part of that procession earlier with the pit fiend, are sitting and ravenously feasting on some nondescript purplish-red meat. You can see the tables, actually, are almost like troughs, and the center of it seems to be almost a funnel, where all the blood and gore that is--
Laura: Ohh-- (shuddering noise)
Matt: -- sent out from the viscera that slurps past their toothy maw, is gathered and then siphoned down below.
Liam: Out of curiosity, these spined devils look like the thing we fought under Krieg's house. Was that Krieg's house? It was, wasn't it?
Laura: Oh, yeah yeah yeah.
Liam: With the succubus.
Laura: Should we-- I just walk up. I'm just going to ask for a room, and just go up.
Matt: I can show pictures of all these creatures, it's great!
Taliesin: I'm going to stay downstairs to see if they try and come in.
Liam: Is there a bar here?
Travis: We're still outside.
Matt: There is the ones that are currently feasting at the one table there.
Laura: Oh my god.
Liam: Is there the hellish equivalent of a bar here?
Matt: You glance-- that's one table there; there's another table where you can see what looks to be a deep-red-skinned, very handsome-looking man who has black hair that fades to a very faint grey at the tips; it's long and goes past the shoulders. He has horns that protrude up the front, he's-- the rest of his body is swathed in dark black and grey cloak, and you can see wings folded against his back, and he just sits there, clutching a goblet at the table, usually staring into it as he occasionally sips, lost in his own thought. Beyond that, in the corner, you do see sitting--
Marisha: Me at 1 AM.
Matt: A rather rotund-- He's a greasy, obese-looking fella who's been-- he has a big and matted brown beard. His hair has this curl and he has a whole series of scratch marks across his face that just-- long, deep-set scars that leave this very marred visage, and he grins this toothy grin as you enter. You can see he's just-- his chest hair that's exposed under his white tunic, and his leather apron that he has over the front of that. It's just a very, very disturbing grin when he smiles at you as you enter, and he sits up from his stool and walks over and puts his hands down, and as it puts its hands down, you can see them begin to burn his skin but you can now see these calloused fingers-- you can see he's been here for quite some time and has had his own way of adjusting to the atmosphere, and just leans in, (speaks Infernal).
Laura: Kuthok.
Matt: "Kuthok."
Taliesin: Common?
Laura: Rooms.
Matt: "Ah, you aren't from around here. (laughs)"
Taliesin: Certainly not.
Marisha: Ermahgerd. Ermahgerd?
Taliesin: Ermahgod.
Marisha: Ermahgerd.
Matt: As you say that, the devilish entity that was sitting at the table slowly turns its head over towards her-- (laughter)
Matt: -- and has now taken an interest in this group that has entered--
Travis: Slick!
Matt: -- sipping his wine.
Marisha: I look back at him and I light up my fingers and I give him the flaming finger guns. Super douchey.
Matt: He gives a nod.
Marisha: Over-exaggerated nod.
Travis: He's literally eating raw meat and blood.
Laura: No more, Keyleth. No more eye contact.
Matt: Well, he just has a goblet, but you don't know what's in it.
Laura: Do you have rooms available?
Matt: "We can provide space, yes."
Taliesin: We're here on a few days' business and we were hoping to find a friendly place to rest our heads on occasion, maybe take in a meal of something not necessarily--
Laura: Organ?
Taliesin: Too conscious?
Marisha: Too conscious? (laughs)
Matt: He leans in and goes, "I can provide that, don't worry. How're you paying?"
Taliesin: Will coin suffice?
Matt: "I suppose."
Taliesin: If we get anything more exciting, we'll be sure to let you know. We just got here.
Matt: "One room," and he puts up a thick, meaty finger that you can see has-- it's been broken in two places and not healed right.
Taliesin: Oh god, stop it, Matt! Ugh.
Matt: "Three rooms, and a special meal for the lot. 250 gold."
Marisha: Wow, wow, vacation destination right here.
Taliesin: I'm totally okay with that.
Liam: Yeah, it's airport prices.
Travis: Let's be honest, it doesn't really matter what we think about that price.
Taliesin: You, sir, is that 250 a night or 250 total for our stay?
Matt: He gives you all a really dark look. "We'll say for the stay. A few days, you said, right?"
Taliesin: For that, 350 I think. I feel that I want you to know just how grateful we are. I'll put the extra 100 out of my personal bin.
Matt: You can see he's looking at you as you're saying this, and he's contemplating. You can see there's that urge to jack it up. But he keeps glancing past you occasionally and just nods and accepts it.
Marisha: Do I notice this?
Laura: As he's talking, I turn around and lean against the table that he's talking over and see who he's looking at.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Does that burn you?
Matt: You take five points of fire damage.
Laura: Well yeah, but I'm going to act totally calm about it.
Matt: You glance, watching his eyeline and you can see that same dark red-skinned devilish-looking man who was paying attention to you all is currently meeting his gaze directly and gives him a nod.
Marisha: Oh, no no no! This ain't no Hostel situation! Aw, hell no.
Laura: I think he might be the owner.
Marisha: That makes sense-- but still, still, no. No, we're not going to go in here to be sold in the middle of the night.
Taliesin: We're good, we're good.
Marisha: Are we cool?
Taliesin: I think we're cool. Just let it play out.
Laura: Can we insight check the guy we're talking to?
Matt: Sure, go for it.
Laura: Okay. Sure, why not! Here we go. Yeah, yeah that's good. 17.
Matt: 17? I mean, he's hard to read, but he seems to be a pretty fucking creepy guy who's giving you rooms to stay in, and seems to be making eye contact and his reactions based on some sort of unspoken conversation with this other entity in the room with you. But he reaches down without breaking eye contact with the rest of you as well and puts a set of three keys onto the table. They're all these ragged-looking black iron constructs that are identical in some ways but their handcrafted visual style shows that they have different slight changes to their designs. Kind of shoves them forward towards you. "Premium." And he reaches down. You hear the clanking of some sort of glass-like instruments and he pulls up these small, almost dull gray-looking sponge-like stones that are about that large. Kind of puts one out in front of each of you. Takes the coins. (sighs) Goes and walks back--
Laura: Wait, before he walks away. How long have you owned this space?
Matt: "Oh, I don't own it. I just work here."
Laura: Who runs it, then?
Matt: "Why you asking so many questions, girl?"
Laura: I'm curious, big man. That's all.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Laura: (squeaking noises) 18.
Liam: She said with confidence.
Matt: "That's on a need-to-know basis, sweetheart. Enjoy your meal." He goes and like sweatily waddles over to his chair in the corner and sits down.
Marisha: Is this rock tartare? Oh my god. We used to serve this all the time in the Air Ashari. It was a delicacy in the Earth Ashari.
Matt: As you lift it and bring it towards you, it seems to have this very, very faint energy around it.
Marisha: Oh, I don't know if this is rock crudite.
Laura: Let's get up to the rooms. I want Tary to identify it once we get up to the rooms.
Marisha: I kind of do like a--
Laura: Don't, don't. Not yet, Keyleth.
Matt: Keyleth, as you tap it and bring it towards your mouth, you guys watch as it glows with a faint pale yellow-green color and, Keyleth, you hear this faint soft, wailing sound as this slight drift of soul energy drifts off of the stone and is inhaled by Keyleth.
Marisha: Oh.
Travis: Oh! (laughs)
Matt: Keyleth, you feel a sudden rush--
Travis: Of course!
Matt: An unexpected rush of energy. Your vision clarifies--
Liam: Give it to Keyleth, she'll try anything! (laughter)
Laura: You ate a soul, Keyleth?!
Taliesin: That had a name! That had a life, that had a mortgage.
Laura: Oh my god!
Taliesin: He made some bad decisions, and now you're eating it--
Matt: A sudden rush of energy--
Marisha: It's so Keyleth, yeah. Oh shit.
Taliesin: I'm so proud of you.
Matt: You feel very awake. Your senses clarify and like a boundless surge of energy in your body, like you could do anything.
Marisha: (exhales) Do we-- are we resting right now? Let's go right now.
Laura: Let's go up to the room.
Liam: You okay over there?
Marisha: This is like the best rock tartare I think I've ever experienced.
Matt: Tary, by the way, goes--
Laura: No, no, Tary!
Matt: Like sucking hard on the stone. And you watch as the hairs on the back of his neck stand and he goes, "Good sir. How much are each of these?"
Travis: Yeah, yeah.
Liam: I'm quietly thinking about Scanlan, watching this happen.
Matt: The guy sits forward and goes, "For you? 30 gold apiece."
Marisha: Taryon--
Matt: Tary goes, "I'll take 20."
Marisha: Buy the lot, Tary! Buy the lot! Good man! And I like Beastman shake him. Yeah!
Liam: Are you okay?
Marisha: I'm great! I feel great.
Laura: Let's go upstairs.
Travis: We got one left, let's take it upstairs.
Laura: No, we've got one for each of us.
Travis: He said three of them.
Taliesin: Three rooms.
Matt: So Sam, mark 600 gold and wherever you are, Sam, mark down 20 soul stone slivers.
Liam: Welcome to Hollywood.
Marisha: They're soul stone slivers?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: That's what they're fucking called? That's some-- man. You need to put a disclaimer on those.
Liam: Let's get to the rooms, shall we?
Taliesin: This is everything I wanted. Yeah, let's go to the rooms.
Matt: All right. You guys make your way up to the chambers, and to your surprise, the interior of these rooms are fairly well furnished. While the entrance chamber seemed to be pretty brutal, the chambers that you were given-- they aren't next to each other. They're a little scattered as far as the rooms. Only maybe ten or so rooms in the whole establishment. But each room has a very well-crafted bed. There appear to be some well-made chairs of a similar stone material of the downstairs setup there, all having this weird, jagged stylings to their construct. The chamber's still hot as fuck, and it is an uncomfortable interior, but the bed itself does not appear to be bursting into flames. The material here is seemingly resistant to the heat in which it's in the proximity of.
Liam: No, it's just a bed in New York City in July.
Laura: I open up the bag of colding and just like put my face next to it.
Taliesin: Don't fall in.
Laura: No, I just want to breathe in the cold.
Taliesin: Don't lick it, either.
Laura: Wait, should we all go to one room, then?
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: And I want to look all around the room and see if anybody's watching, if there's any kind of holes in the wall.
Liam: Yeah, is there any kind of bugs or any-- bugs.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: Bugs or bugs. I cast black light.
Marisha: Bugs and bugs and bugs and bugs-- I cast black light!
Laura: 13.
Liam: 18.
Matt: Cool. So as you guys take a good ten minutes or so. As you're looking over the room, everyone's Alter Selves except for Keyleth's fade.
Laura: Yeah, we were close there.
Matt: You guys were very close. But you glance around the room and it seems safe. You don't see any sort of signs of any spying.
Marisha: Tary. You look like yourself again.
Matt: "Oh, I'm about to feel a lot more like myself here in a second." And he starts going through the--
Laura: Not yet. Just hold on one second. Maybe I'd cast Identify on those, just before you eat another one.
Travis: Oh yeah.
Matt: "Oh, right!"
Marisha: Tary. Tary. There are beds. And Keyleth goes and jumps up on a bed, and just starts jumping on them a little.
Matt: Tary goes like-- leans into you and goes like, "Is she hitting on me?"
Marisha: As Keyleth jumps in the bed on the background.
Liam: It's hard to tell sometimes. Just go with it. Don't make any sudden movements, and let her get it out of her system.
Matt: "Right, right."
Marisha: Mattresses are springy here!
Laura: Wow.
Liam: What's the D&D equivalent of a glowstick?
Matt: It'd be a Sunrod.
Taliesin: That's actually true.
Matt: That is actually true. (laughs)
Taliesin: I'm going to gently pop her in the ankle to see if I can get her to just fall onto the bed and stop hopping.
Matt: (falling and slamming noise) Percy just knocks you onto your ass.
Laura: Okay, Keyleth, okay.
Matt: By the way, the buzz, if you will, the rush slowly begins to fade over the next minute or so. Taryon finishes his Identification and goes, "Huh. Apparently these are receptacles to contain a fragment of refined soul."
Marisha: What?!
Matt: "Yeah, these were once living people. I'm going to be sick."
Liam: I start giving Keyleth--
Laura: (laughs) You just ate a person! You just ate people.
Matt: "I know. I kn-- (nervous noises)"
Marisha: I go with Taryon to puke.
Liam: Ooh, never mind. I was going to give her a scalp massage, but ugh.
Taliesin: So does the Identification spell actually tell you the name of the person that you were consuming?
Matt: "Nope! And I'm glad! I don't want to-- I didn't-- I don't-- I'm sure they were a terrible person. If they're here they're probably a terrible person. They're probably terrible people, right?!"
Travis: How many souls did you just buy?
Matt: "I don't know!"
Laura: (gasps) Well, it was fragments, so maybe it's only like five souls, completely?
Matt: "Maybe? I don't know the logistics."
Travis: Like a whole family.
Liam: I mean, you were really up, though, when you were, you know, full there.
Laura: But does it heal you? What do the fragments do? I mean do the soul fragments just like--
Marisha: Yeah, what happened? What happened when that happened?
Laura: -- do you just feel better, are you healed or are you just not hungry anymore?
Taliesin: Sustained.
Matt: Sustained. I mean, as far you understand, and from what you experienced there, any sort of hunger pains that would have existed there seem to have been staved off, and there is a--
Taliesin: (laughs) It's literally Soylent.
Marisha: That's really messed up, because now I'm hungry. (laughter)
Marisha: It's very hollow sustenance, I'm really hungry now.
Laura: Well, we're about to have a Heroes' Feast.
Marisha: Oh boy.
Travis: Back to the plan.
Laura: Back to the plan.
Marisha: Oh god, my throat's a little tight.
Taliesin: Scry. You're going to be fine after you scry.
Laura: Okay, scry. Let's scry on Hotis.
Travis: And then the Feast?
Taliesin: I'm going to give her a shot of something, just to calm down.
Marisha: Yeah, can you give me like, a minute?
Taliesin: Going to give her a shot of something. Got to go back for more, soon.
Liam: Pours a soul in.
Taliesin: (laughs) Certainly spirits at the very least. Soul and spirits. I shouldn't be finding this as funny as I am.
Liam: Oh, it's very in-character.
Marisha: Keyleth paces back and forth for about five minutes, and then goes, okay, I'm good.
Laura: Let it settle.
Marisha: I'm great. Okay.
Laura: Grog, do you want to keep leaning against the door, maybe? I'm just afraid-- I feel really uncomfortable in here. Are there windows in the room at all?
Matt: Nope.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Can I touch the door with my pointy finger real quick?
Matt: Yes, you do.
Travis: Is it burny?
Matt: It is.
Laura: Maybe Doty can lean against the door? Stand in front of the--
Liam: Hey yeah, Tarytown, can you have Dotes lean on the door?
Matt: Which, by the way, as Grog does that, Doty goes-- into the door, and Taryon's like, "Oh, Doty, you can stop doing that, but do lean against the door."
Laura: Does he take fire damage?
Matt: Doesn't appear to be affecting him.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Though, over the next minute or so, you see parts of the back of his armor begin to glow a dull red to match the coloration of the edges of the buildings.
Laura: Oh shit, that's kind of cool.
Marisha: That's pretty cool, yeah.
Laura: Don't touch Doty!
Matt: It's my favourite board game.
All: Don't. Touch. Doty!
Matt: Waiting for it.
Liam: Seems like a Catholic school game. (laughter)
Matt: All right, so, what are you doing?
Travis: Oh my god.
Laura: Oh no. We're going to scry on Hotis.
Marisha: We're going to scry on Hotis. I'm going to scry, using my 5th-level spell, not the Scrying Eye because I want to use my spell ability, and it's going to be awesome, and I'm not going to be hiding from a soul that I accidentally consumed.
Liam: No, you're going to be bottoming out.
Matt: Okay, hold on just a second.
Liam: Just need another soul, man.
Marisha: Let's add to Keyleth's guilt a little bit more.
Laura: It's okay, it was already dead, Keyleth. Or maybe it was like the soul gems.
Travis: Yep, that thing was still alive.
Marisha: Don't say any of that. I've got to focus.
Laura: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm kidding, kidding, I'm totally kidding.
Liam: Here-- I'm sure it was somebody who murdered children, you know? It was probably a major arsehole.
Laura: Yeah, it was probably a really bad person, and now they're inside of you.
Marisha: You know, not something else I'd want right now, no. None of these things.
Matt: What level spell is the scry?
Marisha: Fifth.
Matt: Fifth? As soon as you cast the spell and center your vision on the idea of Hotis, the spell immediately fizzles and dissipates.
Liam: Son of a--
Marisha: Son of a-- god--
Matt: And you begin to remember, through your research of the rakshasa, up to a certain level of spells, 6th-level spells, they're immune to it.
Marisha: Damn it to the Nine-- or Second Layer of Hell. All right.
Laura: So, cast it at a higher level.
Marisha: So, I'm going to try again.
Laura: At what level?
Marisha: I'm going to-- we're in for the night, yeah?
Laura: We can be.
Liam: That's the plan. That's the intention.
Marisha: We're going to eat a Heroes' Feast.
Liam: All topped off at the moment, so whatever you do, we'll make up.
Laura: Do we know if the Nine Hells have day and night the same way--
Travis: I'm not topped off; I need four hit points.
Liam: I touch Grog's shoulder and I give him four hit points.
Matt: And, just like that--
Travis: Thank you.
Liam: Ticklish.
Matt: Yeah, a little bit.
Laura: Does this place have day and night the same way?
Marisha: We'll be eating a Heroes' Feast, correct?
Laura: Yeah, but are we going to scry first?
Marisha: Yeah!
Laura: Yeah. Yeah yeah yeah yeah!
Marisha: Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah! I'm going to do an 8th-level Scry.
Matt: An 8th-level Scrying?
Marisha: On Hotis.
Laura: Shit!
Matt: Okay!
Liam: Boom!
Laura: Eat it, Hotis!
Marisha: Show me what you got!
Taliesin: Show me what you got!
Liam: Ho-dis!
Laura: Eat that scry!
Travis: He's rolling.
Laura: Oh god, he is.
Matt: This time, you grit your teeth. The space is already prepared for the first ritual you did.
Marisha: I also give it a good ten minutes, let him get distracted and forget that he, maybe, just got scryed on.
Matt: Okay! You close your eyes, and this time, remembering both the original conflicts with him in the Quad Roads, the battle, which you recall was at the base of a statue of Dispater, the archdevil of this sphere of Hell.
Marisha: Oh fuck, no.
Matt: Way back when. You remember him falling off the top of the balcony with Vax--
Liam: Good times.
Laura: And then being stabbed by Scanlan.
Matt: -- and using these memories, you focus on the essence of Hotis. Your vision suddenly pulls out of the top of this chamber that you're in, to a brief glance, just a flash over the horizon of the city, and there you see the ominous dark tower, for but a moment. Then there's a flash as your vision is pulled further into this cityscape of darkened, withering alleys, and the whole atmosphere as the core of this space that you guys are heading towards seems to be disheveled, ruined, destitute, and filthy. Your vision is dragged in that direction, to ground level, then below, and is brought, suddenly thrust into chambers, dark, bars, iron doors, a prison. A prison beneath the streets of the city. There's another flash. You see devils, dozens of them, walking guards, some larger than others. You see a flash of large, red leathery wings. You see something horned and dark, grinning beyond a metal door, and then beyond that door, there's another flash, and on the inside, you see tendrils of red flesh extending from the ceilings and the walls, all merging to a center small core. There you see this fleshy egg-like structure, about this large, that is suspended by these strands of muscle-y sinew, and there you see writhing and twisting within the membrane of this, a small, misshapen humanoid cat-like creature that is currently writhing on the inside. You can hear the faint squealing and screaming--
Laura: (high-pitched) Rakshasa!
Matt: -- in pain as Hotis, not yet fully formed, slowly torturing its way back to its full physical form, is just screaming with hatred, awaiting the moments of vengeance once the torturous pain that currently consumes its existence fades and it can once more plot its return to the Prime Material Plane.
Marisha: But it was in a prison underground, under the tower?
Liam: In a Faberge egg.
Matt: Underneath this portion of the city, or a little ways ahead.
Taliesin: Suspended by octopi.
Marisha: Holy fuck!
Taliesin: This is going to go great!
Marisha: Holy shit!
Laura: Anything else? Anything else? Anything else? Did you see anything else?
Matt: That's all you see. You just saw flashes just leading into this. You have no idea exactly where it is. All you saw were flashes of a prison under the city, and Hotis still incubating in this chamber.
Travis: We've got to get arrested.
Laura: Or become police officers.
Liam: Yeah! Police Academy, that's the thing the do!
Travis: Keyleth will get arrested, no problem.
Marisha: Yeah, that's true. Just tell me to go do something in public. That's all you need. All right. So, I'm remembering, it seems like Hotis might serve the devil of this realm, the leader, the president, as you have said a few times, Grog.
Travis: Dispator.
Marisha: Mm-hm, Dispator. Seems like he serves him, and is in a prison. You know what's fun, I feel like a lot of the things we were looking for this whole time are all underground. It's like an underground city. Man, this is terrifying.
Taliesin: What if that means it's just as hot underground?
Marisha: (exhales) Well, the good news is, once we find Hotis, it'll be super easy. The bad news is, finding Hotis? Super hard.
Liam: Gotta find out-- I assume she's-- you've filled us all in on what you saw.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm assuming I translated.
Taliesin: So all we have to do is teleport through that tree that's underground. We can send him a small bonsai tree, as a gift.
Marisha: (gasps) Oh my god, oh my god!
Laura: Yeah yeah yeah, then as soon as he wakes up--
Liam: We have to find the prison--
Taliesin: We have to find the prison, find out what it is, who runs it--
Liam: And then get in, get arrested, get--
Taliesin: Infiltrate, perhaps. Call a favor.
Marisha: I have a weird feeling that this prison is run by Dis-- Lord Dispater himself.
Liam: James Spader.
Marisha: James Spader.
Travis: Wait, you said it wasn't fully formed, right? It's still, like, in its goo phase?
Marisha: It is.
Travis: Am I the only one that feels like this is an awful lot of trouble for something that's not a problem yet?
Taliesin: The trouble is, once it becomes a problem, it continues to be a problem until you cut it off at the root.
Laura: He only stops when you kill him down here.
Liam: Right, Grog, it's two different sets of problems. Here, he's a wee, wee bab in a chocolate egg, but getting to him is difficult. If we wait, then he gets the jump on us when we're sleeping in our beds.
Travis: Not in a chocolate egg?
Liam: Not in a chocolate egg. Then he looks like a guy in a mascot suit at a Winter's Crest fair.
Laura: Or like Gilmore.
Marisha: Or like Keyleth.
Taliesin: Or like Pike.
Laura: Oh, I can't even imagine Hotis disguised as Pike.
Marisha: I know, what a dick move that would be.
Liam: So, it's now or later, it's just a different set of problems, and now we know what we're doing at least.
Travis: Okay.
Marisha: So--
Taliesin: I may-- well, I'm tempted to head downstairs to have a drink, start scoping out and see who might know what's what about that prison.
Liam: I mean, we know fucking nobody in this city.
Taliesin: No.
Liam: And they all look like garbage, so why don't we just start with the garbage downstairs?
Travis: Small question  we checked in as-- you checked in as tieflings.
Laura: Yeah. We have to re-alter ourselves before we go downstairs.
Travis: For bursts of an hour, each time?
Taliesin: Or we could just not talk about it and see if anyone actually notices, just see if anyone's going to be rude about it.
Travis: There's only a few rooms in this place, right?
Marisha: They keep a fairly close eye on their patrons.
Travis: I would think so-- ol' broken sausage finger may be sharper than we think.
Marisha: Hmm, I have a feeling there are more eyes on us here than we even realise.
Laura: Oh, I'm sure.
Travis: Hey, I'm really hungry, can we have that fucking Feast now?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah, and I make a Heroes' Feast.
Matt: All righty. You guys go ahead and muster the Heroes' Feast.
Laura: I mark off 1,000 gold.
Liam: Extra hit points, no fear.
Marisha: Yep.
Liam: Lustrous hair.
Taliesin: Shiny fingernails.
Liam: Shiny fingernails. Feel like you ate a soul.
Laura: Does that mean all of our heal-- our points are healed, or are we just--
Matt: Well, if you guys take a full rest, you will.
Laura: Oh. Oh, that's the question I wanted to ask you: did we know if here, night and day is the same?
Matt: You don't know that.
Laura: No, that wasn't in any of his books?
Matt: Make an intelligence check, actually.
Taliesin: That's 12.
Matt: You really have no idea. I mean, there are beds, there are places to stay, and from what you can tell, there are-- there is traffic from creatures that travel from different planes, probably require sleep. So, whether or not there is a day-night cycle based on any sort of improbable sun, there probably are expected day-sleep cycles for creatures that need to sleep.
Travis: They pump oxygen in, you can stay up as late as you want.
Matt: Yeah, it's fine.
Marisha: No windows.
Matt: So Keyleth, roll 2d10.
Marisha: All right.
Taliesin: I'm so excited.
Travis: Come on, now.
Marisha: Big money, no whammies! That's an eight for one, and the other, not as good. Ten total.
Matt: Okay, so everyone gets a bonus of ten-- that's an average, I guess. Close to average. So, ten maximum hit point increase to everybody for the next 24 hours.
Marisha: I also, at the end of dinner say, I would like to raise a toast. To Vox Machina: for going and being together all the way into hell and back.
Laura: Well, fingers crossed.
Liam: Well, let's not get ahead of ourselves.
Travis: We might not come back.
Marisha: Well, all the way to Hell and--
Taliesin: To hell!
Travis: Here.
Matt: "Thanks to the wonderful guidance of the Voice of the Tempest!"
Laura: Okay.
Travis: (sighs) Oh Tary.
Marisha: Oh jeez.
Matt: "Keyleth of the Air Ashari and-- keep writing this down-- and to the majesty and the heroic and adventurous drive--"
Marisha: Yes!
Matt: "Of Taryon Darrington!"
Marisha: Of Tary-- Everybody, to Taryon Darrington!
Matt: "To me!"
Marisha: And with that, I do Inspiring Leader, my newest feat since I'm a leader. (laughter)
Taliesin: What voice is this?
Marisha: Mine.
Taliesin: This is your "Leader" voice.
Marisha: This is why I'm a voice actor. And--
Matt: So you cheer and talk for about ten minutes.
Marisha: Yes, cheers to Taryon Darrington and his glistening armor and his flowing locks of golden hair. And I continue for ten minutes about Taryon Darrington.
Laura: Wow.
Marisha: And his glistening boots of shining upkeep. And his--
Travis: He's losing hit points from this.
Laura: I want to throw up.
Matt: And the whole time Doty's--
Marisha: Writing it all down. And then I give temporary hit points equal to my level, which is 17, plus my charisma modifier, which is nothing. So you get an extra 17 on that ten.
Matt: That's temporary, though.
Marisha: Temporary.
Laura: Why are we inspired by hearing you talk all that shit about Tary?
Liam: Because it's in the spellbook.
Laura: I don't feel inspired.
Marisha: Well, because I would hope that with my, you know, Tary's golden locks of flowing hair and with my very impressive cape that I got, you know, for touring the world. Like a frequent flyer card.
Matt: We'll say for the purposes of this, Taryon got 17 temporary hit points. (laughter)
Marisha: What?! No! You know what, Vex, I'm still, I'm still practicing.
Laura: You know what? It's getting there. Next time, share the compliments, make all of us feel cool.
Liam: And all this while, Vax has been staring at Taryon and imagining him with exactly half a beard. (laughter)
Matt: While Taryon notices you staring intently and she's giving this inspiring speech about how amazing he is-- Taryon looks over at you and goes, "She's hitting on me." (laughter)
Marisha: With his belt that is bejeweled and his very bedazzled pauldrons and his--
Laura: So over this part.
Marisha: Very, very manicured cuticles. And I don't know what else to say for ten minutes about Tary.
Travis: Are we staying in? For the, for a bit?
Taliesin: On the plus side, we're all very tired now.
Liam: What else is there to say about Taryon Darrington?
Marisha: Don't ask me. Please don't ask me.
Matt: What are you guys doing? Are you resting?
Laura: I don't know. Should we? Rest? I don't even know what time it is here.
Matt: You don't.
Laura: It could be like early morning and we could rest and then wake up in the middle of the night.
Travis: We've only been traveling for like a few hours, right?
Laura: But it could be a completely different time here!
Matt: Yeah. But it's more about your internal clock, whatever you want to do.
Taliesin: It took us quite a while to find this place.
Marisha: I've also expended my 6th, 7th and 8th-level spells.
Matt: It took an hour, a little over an hour since your arrival. Since you guys did your transformations.
Liam: Yeah. We went to bed, got up, and then-- what was that?
Laura: Oh, that was a burp. I forgot we were filming. (laughs)
Matt: Yeah. You've had maybe three hours, four hours since waking up in the morning.
Liam: It's like noon in our internal clock, probably.
Laura: I feel like we should just fucking try to do something.
Travis: Yeah, so if we've got to find our way to some sort of prison, two options. Get arrested. Or ask people where people go who get arrested, which seems really fishy and stupid.
Marisha: It seemed like it was underground, almost spanning this entire city. We could possibly try and find a back entrance. I don't know.
Liam: We need to talk to somebody. Just talk to somebody. We can walk around for another two hours and wait until somebody gets the heebie-jeebies from us and fucks us up. Or we can talk to somebody. I'm going to talk to somebody. (laughter)
Laura: Well, there's the owner downstairs, the creepy guy.
Liam: I've already left the room.
Laura: Oh, Jesus.
Taliesin: I follow him.
Laura: I follow. Wait! We're not altered!
Marisha: No, you're not.
Taliesin: No. He already went down.
Marisha: You want to come back-- Vax, Vax, Vax, Vax!
Liam: Yeah?
Marisha: You're not altered! You're not altered! Hey! Hey!
Liam: I do a quick U-turn.
Taliesin: All right, we grab him, drag him back in.
Laura: Oh god.
Matt: At which, as Tary goes, "All right, Doty. Let him through," as you leave, Doty kind of moves away from the door and lets you by. As he bends forward with kind of the taut gesture of bowing as you pass by, you see his entire back is glowing bright red. (laughter)
Laura: Tary, can he heat up to the point that he doesn't work any more?
Matt: "I hope not. Probably not. I'm going to say not."
Laura: You made him, after all. You would know.
Matt: "Right. It's fine." He looks over to Percival. "Right? He's going to be fine?"
Taliesin: Maybe flip? Flip sides, just keep flipping the sides.
Matt: "Right! All right, Doty  chest against the wall." And Doty just kind of pancakes against the door a second time.
Travis: I wish I had some bacon right now.
Laura: Tary?
Matt: "Mm-hm?"
Laura: Can you Alter Self again, on us?
Matt: Let's see, I'm going to check the character sheet that I got sent.
Liam: You're god, you can do anything.
Laura: If we're screwed, we might have to be us.
Taliesin: We might have to.
Matt: Well, he can cast Alter Self, he goes, "I can technically do it one more time."
Laura: But you'll be out of other things you can do?
Matt: "I will be out of all my things. Of the big things. I mean, I still can--" He kind of jostles a satchel he has on the side, you hear a bunch of glass and things clinking. He says, "I still have my accoutrements. But as far my devices to help you guys out, I'm kind of spent at that point. But--"
Travis: You know, I still look the way I did when I checked in. Looking like me going to go and do all the recon.
Marisha: I can do Alter Self at will, I'm just not the best person to talk to people.
Matt: "Why don't we let the two of them go?"
Taliesin: (inhales nervously)
Laura: Oh god.
Marisha: Are you? Is that Grog and Keyleth?
Laura: Yes.
Marisha: Grog and Keyleth. Haven't done it for a while. Grog and Minxie. (laughs nervously)
Travis: What? You and I, me and the tiger?
Marisha: Yeah, I'm not saying I'd be a tiger. I'm just hearkening back to our team-up.
Travis: But you said Minxie.
Liam: Yeah but, I mean, I haven't stepped in lava in a while. Doesn't mean that's something I should right now.
Marisha: Well, you know, it's what we call a call-back? You know, don't worry about it.
Taliesin: It's, you know, what's-- No, I don't want to say what's the worst that could happen. What's the best could happen? What's the best outcome here?
Liam: I feel like with Scanlan gone, our best talker is this one.
Taliesin: Yes. Probably the two of us, possibly.
Travis: Where are you pointing, over here? I can't see.
Taliesin: Yes. Grog.
Travis: I've got a head of hair in the way. Where'd you point?
Marisha: You know, Grog and I can be very intimidating. Right, Grog?
Travis: Yeah, but it's more angry.
Laura: You know, he might do great here. I haven't been doing so hot.
Liam: Yeah, but you know, I feel like in so many situations we go: "What happens if I push this button? Let's just see what happens."
Laura: Let's just send Grog down.
Liam: But that's not what I'm saying. I'm actually arguing the opposite of that. I'm saying for once, maybe, I mean, you're a very good talker. Why don't we send the person who's good at talking down? Instead of on a lark, sending down, you know, the brute to talk.
Laura: Yeah, but everything I've tried hasn't worked so far. Maybe they're immune to persuasion down here and maybe all they need is a little (grunts) a little jostle.
Liam: Maybe you haven't been lucky. Maybe you need to give it another shot. I mean, your average is a little bit better than the Big Man's.
Marisha: Yeah. We could go back to old-school days and I could always go Minxie. Little intimidation check?
Travis: They're going to want to steal you and put you in a cage.
Taliesin: I'm perfectly content to just go down there, and if anyone asks we've just changed into something more comfortable.
Laura: Let's just fucking go.
Taliesin: Let's go.
Liam: Both of you! You're both-- he can only do one person.
Marisha: Yeah. Are going to change into something? Or are you just going to be totally oblivious that you're definitely not the people who walked in upstairs?
Taliesin: I'm going to be totally okay.
Matt: "I have one capsule."
Laura: We're going to be okay. He says he's got enough for everyone still.
Liam: He's only got enough for one.
Laura: No, he can do it again to all of us.
Matt: "I can do it to one person"
Liam: One person.
Travis: Yeah, and I go down as just backup.
Laura: It's up to you, Percy, dear.
Marisha: And I can do it at will.
Liam: You go, you go.
Taliesin: I don't think I-- do you think with the capsule or without. I don't want to--
Laura: With.
Taliesin: Fine, with.
Marisha: Oh, jeez. Someone pick who goes down and talks. I feel like Grog.
Liam: I just did. Percival, you're going. It's hell, this is your game now.
Laura: With Grog. You're going with Grog.
Liam: Sure, as back-up, yes.
Matt: "Be my guest."
Marisha: Percy and Grog! Go, go, go, go!
Matt: All right, so as you take the coin and you kind of focus on it (fwoosh) and your form shifts back into the previous tiefling appearance.
Taliesin: I grab a soul shard, I suck it down. (sniffs)
Laura: Have fun storming the castle.
Taliesin: Oh, let's do this.
Travis: Oh, you did a rail of soul, huh? Okay. Sweet!
Liam: He just-- (mimics snorting cocaine)
Taliesin: And we head down.
Laura: Did he really? Did you take soul?
Travis: He did! He's so causal, he was like, (inhales, then roars) (laughter)
Taliesin: (inhales) Let's do this. Sucked it down like an oyster.
Matt: And as the rush hits you, you take a step and pause for a moment, because the rush is strong and familiar. It's similar to the sensation and the rush you had when you took a life with the Pepperbox when Orthax was still holding sway.
Taliesin: Huh.
Travis: Oh no.
Matt: That same passage of some sort of a soul energy, and as the rush hits, that familiarity itches you on the inside, and you're a little caught off-guard and made uncomfortable by it.
Liam: Steady as she goes, Percival.
Marisha: Too much?
Taliesin: Too much.
Marisha: Little much?
Taliesin: Little much.
Marisha: Little overwhelming?
Taliesin: Yes, little bit.
Marisha: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to be meditating upon that a little bit later. Let's head downstairs.
Laura: Come back, please.
Liam: I place my hands on Grog's shoulder and Percival's shoulder and cast Bless as they walk out the door.
Matt: Okay. You guys head out, into the hallway.
Laura: I smack both their asses.
Matt: (smack noise)
Liam: You dive in front of me to do that?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: (laughs) And Taryon goes, (inhales deeply). (laughs) He gets weirdly uncomfortable. All right, so, you guys head back downstairs. The two devils that were there feasting earlier appear to have left, and the room is mostly quiet and empty now, except for the same rough-looking bartender in the corner and there, at the same table, is the red-skinned, devilish, handsome gentleman. As you walk down, you see what appears to be a small impish creature that's on his shoulder, and he's currently conversing with it quietly, and then as you guys step down, he (waving noise) to it, and it flies up, and skitters off into the distance outside of the door. Turns to you, reaches over and takes a bottle off the table and fills the goblet.
Travis: What comes out of the bottle?
Matt: It appears to be some deep red liquid.
Laura: Ugh.
Liam: It's merlot.
Laura: Oh. Yum.
Matt: He's watching you, but he's not expecting any interface.
Taliesin: I walk over. (clears throat) Could I possibly entertain you with some company?
Matt: "It would-- it would be a change of pace that is quite welcome. Take a seat, both of you."
Travis: Okay.
Matt: The seats, as they-- they're heavy and they're not quite as-- they're heated at the base, they're warm to the touch, but they're not burning you. You both pull them up and they grind against the slate stone floor of the interior as you plop down and sit. "Shall I also fetch you a drink?"
Taliesin: That sounds lovely. What is actually available at this hour at this establishment?
Matt: "Available at the establishment, not this kind of drink. My personal reserve, that I can offer."
Taliesin: I would be curious, I would hate to be indebted to you at this point, but I would be very curious to try whatever it is that you consider to be your personal stash.
Matt: "I would prefer you indebted to me."
Marisha: Jesus.
Matt: And he lifts a finger and the gentleman at the far edge of the bar stirs, "(grunts) Oh, right." and Chris Farleys his pants a bit. (laughter)
Matt: Comes over with two similar goblets and places them on the table, and steps back to the corner. The gentleman takes the bottle and fills them both, kind of finishing the last bit he had in Grog's chalice, and sets it to the side.
Taliesin: What may I call you?
Matt: "You may call me Ipkesh. What may I call you?"
Taliesin: Ah, Freddie will do for now.
Matt: "Freddie?"
Travis: Greg.
Matt: "Freddie and Greg?" (laughs) God damn it!
Taliesin: Broke the DM, ten points. Boom! (laughter)
Taliesin: Fuck souls, that's a rush.
Liam: Two points for Gryffindor.
Marisha: Oh man, buddy cop, go!
Matt: "So what brings you to my fine establishment?"
Travis: What does the chalice smell like?
Matt: Smells like a strong, alcoholic wine of some kind.
Travis: I take a big old sip.
Matt: It's good. It's very good. You're not a big fan of wine, generally, because you're more of a liquor and ale person, but as far as the wines you've had, it's pretty good.
Liam: Your pancreas melts.
Travis: This, I'm sure you know, is really good.
Matt: "It better be. So, what is your business?"
Taliesin: Honestly, cards on the table, we're in town because a friend of ours got in badly with a rakshasa.
Matt: "(chuckles) This is not an unfamiliar tale."
Taliesin: We figured not, and we're definitely out of place, a bit out of sorts, and definitely out of our depths, but thank you for the rooms. I assume this is your establishment, is it not?
Matt: "I run it at the-- how do I say? A partnership with my betters."
Taliesin: I think I understand. Take another sip. Ah, well, regardless of betters or otherwise, I'm grateful for the sanctuary. All of us are. So we, I assume, are not the first people you've met coming into town, looking for a rakshasa?
Matt: "I have not met them, but stories do swirl, and find my ears. It does all of us well here to know what's going on."
Taliesin: Well, I will admit, we have some questions.
Matt: "Well, perhaps I have some answers."
Taliesin: We've heard of a-- would you call it a prison? An underground series of cells, beneath the tower? Beneath the tower, beneath the city. That's where we think we might find our boy.
Matt: "There is a prison here, yes. I know it well."
Taliesin: You know it well, I would hope not from personal experience?
Matt: "Oh, no, no. It imprisons many things, but-- I would be blunt with you as well. We live here under the interest of business, yes?"
Taliesin: I understand.
Matt: "Information is a resource."
Taliesin: A very, very great one. There is a prison, underground, people go there. Perhaps this is an easy question to ask that will flow freewy-- freely. What is this? Why do people get sent to that prison?
Matt: "What do you have to offer for my information?"
Taliesin: What are you in the market for? I have dull things, but I get the distinct impression you're not necessarily somebody who's going to be interested in coin?
Matt: "I prefer not to dole out small tidbits. I prefer to bundle in larger packages."
Taliesin: I understand. How do I know that what you have to offer is worthwhile?
Matt: "I can--"
Taliesin: I have a proposal.
Matt: "Hm, tempt me."
Taliesin: Obviously we're interested in the prison. We're interested in somehow getting into the prison, or possibly getting our problem out of the prison. I'm not saying that we're looking for some sort of grand mastermind or otherwise, but if you feel that you're the sort of person that would have enough information in this direction of how one might get access to the prison or otherwise, and get out with their skin intact-- at least most of it-- or the sorts of people who would be interested in helping such an adventure go forward, that would be worth our while and interesting.
Matt: Brings up a hand and snaps his finger. As it does, the entire room around both of you goes dark. Jet black. You still see the table before you, the drinks in your hand, the gentleman across the way, but everything else around you just goes complete, lightless, umbra expanse.
Travis: I had too much of this wine.
Taliesin: I don't think I've had enough.
Matt: "If we're to speak freely, it's best that we speak in a place that is safe to speak."
Marisha: Oh my god. He fucking teleported you guys away somewhere.
Matt: "My cost for my information is high, but I can both give you what you seek and the means of achieving what you want, but I want a favor in trade."
Taliesin: And I hope-- If you're willing, that if we decline your offer, I hope you will take no offense.
Matt: "I will take no offense, but those that listen might."
Taliesin: That's fair.
Matt: "What I'm trying to say is, it behooves you to make this contract. So. What you seek is the Mentiri. The Mentiri is the prison beneath the city. I can tell you more, I can get you there. I can probably even find out who there knows of or is involved with this rakshasa. And this favor I ask will lead you to this path." He leans forward after taking a big sip of his wine, finishing the last of it, setting it aside with a heavy (poof) on the table. "I work for Utugash, one of the prominent owners and taskmasters involved in moving souls and soul goods throughout this area of Dis. He is slovenly, he is lazy, he is powerful, and he needs to fall."
Taliesin: Is he a pit fiend?
Matt: "At one time, maybe. At this time, his laziness has left him a useless sack of demon shit, and I have bent under his fist and brow for far too long. I have friends now in other places, and if his business were to crumble, that void left behind could elevate me and my compatriots."
Taliesin: Of course.
Matt: "Now, I have friends in this prison, and the offense of travelers tearing down someone of prominence, and yourselves being still within your very mortal coils, why that's what this prison is designed for; for those that break the laws of the land but haven't yet passed. To be ripened. To be kept, until they do, once the corruption has set them for the rest of our factory. So, you slay this creature, I can see that you are safely arrested and placed with allies on the inside that could move you around and bring you fairly close to this rakshasa you seek. That is my offer."
Taliesin: This is a fair offer. I will quietly, without naming names of any kind, confer with my compatriots and we will give you a yes or no, without naming names of any kind.
Matt: "Very well."
Taliesin: Before we leave, and just as a personal favor. I've been touched by a demon before, by a creature. Does it show here? Can you see?
Matt: He gives you a strong look.
Taliesin: I'm going to pull Hex up on myself.
Matt: At which point, you see his expression change, and he rears back and goes, "It doesn't show, but the blood ward leaves its scar on many who exist here. Your essence is not of the Abyss, I would not worry. But do be careful in flashing such power."
Taliesin: I'm thankful. My last question  this taskmaster of yours, the name you gave me, is it his true name?
Matt: "No. True names, now that is an expensive trade."
Taliesin: One would hope. Would have made our job much easier.
Matt: "And mine long ago."
Taliesin: Fair. We will meditate upon it.
Matt: "I will say  beware the Whisperers, the golden-armored fliers, the watchers of the archdevil himself. His paranoia seeks to know everything that goes on, and should such treachery that we talk of be revealed, well, that would a very unfitting end to me, my compatriots, and every one of your friends."
Taliesin: I will not speak your name in public. I will not speak your name in private, to be honest. You'll just be Our Friend Downstairs for now.
Matt: "Avoid the Whisperers." He snaps again and the sphere of darkness fades, and you're back in the tavern, unmoved.
Travis: Anybody looking at us strange?
Matt: No. The one person in the room there, the rather bulky fellow in the corner seems to be half-asleep, almost like (sleepy lip smacking).
Taliesin: We finish our drinks. Keep an eye on the door, see if that strange dwarf-like creature shows up.
Matt: You finish your drinks over the next couple of minutes or so-- it wasn't a heavy pour. Ipkesh just intensely, with a slight smile, looks you both over as you all quietly assess your positions in the discussion. No sign of that individual you saw earlier.
Taliesin: All right.
Travis: I've made up my mind.
Taliesin: Well, the rest have to do the--
Travis: No, no, it's you and me down here.
Taliesin: No, we're going up.
Travis: If you want your glasses back, we decide here and now.
Taliesin: That's fair. Let's head upstairs. (laughter)
Travis: Damn it!
Taliesin: We head up.
Laura: How'd it go?
Taliesin: Well, our friend downstairs says be careful of what you talk about out loud. It's pretty standard.
Travis: Apparently people are listening to everything.
Laura: Like in here?
Taliesin: Probably in here.
Laura: Oh.
Travis: So no names. No specifics.
Laura: God, it's good to be so cool.
Taliesin: Well. It's pretty typical.
Matt: Doty is writing that. Tary goes, "Don't-- don't write that down."
Travis: How many empty soul stones did she have while we were gone?
Laura: I've had none! This place is just so hot.
Liam: So, we switch back to Little Elf Boy, Little Elf Girl, Antlers, Greg.
Taliesin: I definitely would recommend everybody not use their real names. That's something I should've pointed out earlier. Nothing here is using its real name.
Laura: Did you ask him if you don't look like a tiefling if people are going to notice?
Taliesin: I didn't. But I asked him some other things.
Travis: I don't think it matters, though.
Taliesin: I don't think it matters, either.
Liam: What did you find out?
Taliesin: Well, there's a prison underneath the city.
Marisha: Yes. Knew that.
Taliesin: Our friend says he can probably, very likely get us in there and get us close enough to deal with our problem.
Laura: All right.
Taliesin: I believe him.
Marisha: What's the catch?
Travis: We gotta kill someone.
Taliesin: It's the typical catch. We have to do him a favor.
Travis: And then get arrested for it.
Taliesin: Or he'll arrange for us to be arrested.
Travis: I understood that we kill him, then when we go to the prison, he knows people in the prison who would make sure that we find our way to the right places. But that's the shady part.
Liam: Who do we kill? The person you just spoke to?
Taliesin: No.
Liam: Someone else?
Taliesin: Someone else whose name I will not say out loud for now.
Liam: Okay. But you know it?
Taliesin: Yes.
Liam: All right.
Laura: All right. How would we do that?
Taliesin: Well-- How do we ever do anything? (laughs)
Marisha: And why does he want this certain someone killed? I'm sure it's out of politics?
Taliesin: Sure.
Marisha: All right.
Travis: Business.
Marisha: Business.
Liam: It's just evil versus evil here.
Taliesin: Yeah, it's really actually quite convenient that there's no such thing as the right thing to do. It just sort of takes so many things off the table here.
Liam: Mm. You're not going to throw a rock and hit an innocent person in this city.
Taliesin: No, the rock is probably the most innocent person that you're going to throw.
Laura: What if somebody threw a rock and hit us? We're quite innocent.
Liam: Right-- Right.
Taliesin: It would be a contract, we would be--
Laura: Well, Tary is.
Marisha: A contract?
Taliesin: Everything here is a contract.
Marisha: But Tary's exclusive, he can't sign any more contracts!
Matt: "That's true! You told me that."
Taliesin: He would not be signing the contract.
Laura: (whispers) Don't say his name!
Marisha: I mean, Barry! Barry's exclusive.
Taliesin: Barry Barrington.
Marisha: (laughs) Barry Barrington!
Matt: "I don't like this at all."
Taliesin: Chin up, Barry. (laughs)
Marisha: Barry Barrington-- (laughs)
Taliesin: (chuckles) It's better than--
Matt: "Don't write that either!"
Taliesin: -- Perry Paddington.
Liam: Berenstain Bear.
Taliesin: Barry Paddington is actually-- has got a nice ring to it.
Travis: Well, if we've got your code name, what'll we call you?
Taliesin: Freddie.
Laura: Freddie.
Travis: Freddie. Right.
Laura: I wouldn't know that--
Taliesin: And Greg.
Liam: Is that, I mean, that kind of is your name, is that all right?
Taliesin: It's not really, it's a bit of it. It's off.
Travis: I still like D-Roll, but whatever.
Liam: D-Roll's good.
Taliesin: D-Roll's fine, just don't use any real first or last names, nothing you would sign to a piece of parchment.
Travis: Freddie, how do you feel about this plan?
Taliesin: I feel good about it. I feel like it's a terrible idea.
Travis: Right. But do you have any amendments to it? Would you change it somehow?
Taliesin: I would just confirm with someone of reason that we're to do this and get arrested for it, or we're to do this and otherwise--
Laura: Oh my god, how wonderful would it be if Scanlan could just Dimension Door-- Oh, I shouldn't have said his name. Could just Dimension Door down to that thing, to the room, and just slice up the little egg, and then--
Travis: Who's to say where he's going?
Laura: -- bamf out?
Taliesin: Well, we can't, can we?
Laura: Probably not.
Liam: Also, I'm not trying to prevent us from following this plan, but we were warned not to make any deals with any creature--
Marisha: We definitely made a deal between ourselves before we came down here: no contracts, no deals.
Travis: Right.
Taliesin: I didn't agree to that.
Liam: So the first thing we do, is--
Marisha: Make a contract.
Taliesin: Well, look at where we are, to be fair. I sort of knew we would have to.
Marisha: But do we need help getting arrested? I'm kind of with Grog! All I have to do is walk out into the square and open my mouth, and then I'll get arrested.
Taliesin: Do we just want to get arrested? Or do we want to actually end up where we need to be?
Travis: So my thought, right? Is that I think we have to be arrested. Breaking into a prison seems real tough. At least with this guy's plan, if he's lying, the worst we get is just straight-up arrested, which I would assume means all our toys get confiscated, right?
Laura: Probably.
Travis: So, not all of us go on the killing.
Marisha: A couple of us go and get arrested--
Travis: Yeah. And if he's a man of his word, then those people that are in get led along to this magic place where you can go and smash Chicken Little.
Marisha: And the rest of us can follow along?
Travis: But if he's a lying piece of shit, like I'm sure everyone else is, we're going to need someone on the outside--
Taliesin: I get the distinct impression that most people here are painstakingly honest, which is the horrifying thing about a place like this.
Travis: Really?
Taliesin: I think that they-- that there's a lot of lying by omission.
Liam: I have a thing. Might be helpful while we're here.
Laura: What is it?
Liam: It's a little vial of oil of etherealness. The oil can cover someone of my size, maybe Scanlan's size, and it lets you--
Laura: No Scanlan! (laughs) Well, he's not here--
Liam: Lets you walk through the Ethereal Plane for an hour, so you can sort of bypass where you are.
Marisha: (whispers) It's like wearing the Ring, the One Ring.
Liam: Little bit, yeah.
Laura: Like, you walk through walls?
Liam: Yeah, I mean, you're walking on a whole parallel--
Marisha: Dimension?
Liam: The way it was explained to me, on this piece of paper, is that you are parallel to where you are.
Marisha: I will say, having--
Liam: Can't pick anything up, I don't think, can't--
Marisha: -- having Truesight, if anything has Truesight, like the archdevils--
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: I'm pretty sure they can see into the Ethereal Plane, with Truesight. But that's only the archdevils who might have it, but it is illusory magic, I'm pretty sure.
Matt: How does it say it on the item?
Liam: Well, it's the effect of the Etherealness spell, for one hour.
Matt: Oh right and so, for that-- the specifics on that.
Liam: I was trying to sprinkle fairy dust on it, but let's just go to the rules, shall we?
Matt: Let's see here, 4th-- 8th-level.
Marisha: 'Cause I think anything with Truesight can see into the Ethereal Plane, I think.
Liam: This is like Nazgűl KY.
Matt: Kind of. It says  You remain in the Border Ethereal for the duration, or until you use your action to dismiss the spell. During this time, you can move in any direction. You can see and hear the Plane you originated from, but everything there looks gray, so yeah, it's like The One Ring, but you can shift in any direction. You can only--
Marisha: Is it considered illusory magic?
Matt: No, Transmutation.
Marisha: It is Transmutation.
Matt: While on the Ethereal Plane, you can only affect and be affected by other creatures in that Plane. Creatures that aren't in the Ethereal Plane can't perceive you, can't interact with you, unless a special ability or magic has given them the ability to do so. You ignore all objects and effects that aren't on the Ethereal Plane, allowing you to move through objects you perceive on the Plane you originated from.
Laura: God, I really wish we had the stones with us now.
Liam: Yeah, but it's a-- this is a slow-moving one-way ticket.
Matt: Yes.
Liam: It's an hour.
Laura: Yeah, but--
Liam: So I could use it--
Laura: I mean, you could find your way down there.
Liam: Right, or if we get trapped, one of us could lather up and get out. I mean, I don't know what-- we don't really know what we're dealing with yet, but it's just good to know that we have it in our back pocket.
Taliesin: Well.
Marisha: I mean, with Shapechange, I can change down to one of these little weird, eight-winged insects we've seen flying around.
Taliesin: Imps, imps.
Travis: And do what?
Marisha: Get in.
Liam: Then change into something bigger and squish the egg.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: You can't think they won't notice that you're an imp that doesn't belong to anybody?
Laura: No, not an imp. It's an insect.
Marisha: The little insects that have we've been seeing flying around that might be little, tiny, very tiny imps, I don't know.
Liam: I mean, it's not a bad idea. Lot of variables, but it's a pretty good idea.
Matt: Do keep in mind, when you Shapechange, you maintain the hit points of whatever--
Marisha: Of whatever I change into. So if I get down there and I get caught--
Laura: You'll bamf into yourself.
Marisha: I'll bamf into myself. So, the way Shapechange works, is whatever I assume first-- we need to clarify this later, not now, 'cause it's like whatever you had before, is what you have. So do you just have 1 HP the whole time, based on whatever you changed into first?
Matt: Yes. So, if you turn into a dragon with 300 hit points, that's great. The next thing you turn into cannot have more than 300 hit points.
Marisha: Right, but if it goes down--
Matt: If it gets damaged down to, say, ten hit points, and then you turn into a different kind of dragon, that dragon will still have ten hit points.
Marisha: Sure.
Matt: Or if you turn into a fly that has one hit point max, and then back into a dragon, it'll be a dragon with--
Marisha: -- one hit point.
Matt: -- one hit point.
Matt: You cannot regain hit points by changing forms with the spell.
Laura: Oh, wow.
Marisha: But it's whatever I had before. So I can't change into something awesome, then change into something less awesome--
Taliesin: Crappy, and then back into something awesome.
Marisha: -- and still have its hit points?
Matt: You can do it, but you'll-- whenever you squeeze through to the tiny hit points, those carry over into the big creature.
Liam: So you're saying you don't bring your 300 dragon hit points down into the fly body, you switch to-- you switch to fly hit points.
Matt: Unless it's the last resort, or you have a way out, yeah.
Travis: I think we go perform the hit, and then we leave Tary, I mean Barry, to get arrested. Right?
Matt: "Just-- well, no, we're going to do that, all of us, right?"
Travis: Like super-secret spy. No, this is a very privileged role.
Matt: "Really?"
Travis: Yep, big-time macho-man stuff.
Matt: "Are you going to get me out of the prison?"
Travis: Yeah!
Marisha: Prison Break-style. It'd be so dramatic.
Laura: I just don't think we should do that to Barry.
Travis: He's ready for more responsibility, right?
Laura: I really don't feel like he is.
Matt: "I think she might be right in this instance, but, if we're going together and you guys stay around me. We're a team, right? That's what teams do, we do things as a team! Vox Machina--"
Laura: Don't say our name. Don't whisper.
Matt: "Grox Dock-in-da-- Stop writing it down, Doty!"
Marisha: Box Cockina.
Travis: Really?
Liam: Whomp-whomp.
Taliesin: So, do we say yes to this?
Laura: Oh, dear lord.
Liam: To doing the hit and then going to prison?
Taliesin: Well, what else are we going to do?
Liam: Right, no, I'm not arguing.
Travis: (sings) Don't say no to this.
Taliesin: I say yes.
Travis: Yeah, me too!
Marisha: We can also always-- yeah, all right. Wait, what did we just agree to?
Laura: To killing an archdevil.
Travis: No.
Taliesin: No.
Marisha: We're taking this contract?
Matt: Not an archdevil.
Liam: Wait a second, wait a second. When you peeked into Hotis--
Matt: Killing a greater devil. There's a big difference.
Travis: Archdevil is the Pope of this area.
Liam: When she peeked-- I'm asking Keyleth, but you might need to come in here with detail. When you peeked in at Hotis, what-- Like, how much security was around him. What was around him?
Matt: Didn't really see.
Liam: Didn't see. Just saw a Cadbury egg.
Matt: Flashes of interior--
Marisha: It comes in pulses.
Matt: -- and like (bff) and then all of a sudden--
Travis: Definitely something big with big, red, flashing wings, though.
Marisha: Yeah. Yeah-yeah-yeah-yeah, yeah. Archdevil or no. Hard to say.
Laura: Could be, like, a pit fiend or something.
Marisha: I'm getting the idea that maybe Hotis serves Dispater? Dis--?
Liam: Dispater, yeah.
Marisha: Yeah. Dispater. Yeah, kind of think he serves him, so we're kind of maybe going in to kill one of his literal secret spies. Think it's kind of what's going on.
Liam: Yeah, that's what we're doing. So, kill the thing, get arrested, possible bug Keyleth, possible ethereal Keyleth as ways to get in and out. Possibly.
Marisha: I mean, I can always Beast Shape there, then have Shapechange later. You know, I can do the whole be a flying squirrel in someone's pocket, like we've done before, type of thing.
Liam: Yeah. I mean, once we kill this thing, which we will, we're diving into the unknown.
Travis: Do we all want to kill the thing?
Taliesin: Once we kill this thing, we Plane Shift out of here faster than you can say-- Oh, oh, we're--
Liam: Not Hotis. The contract. To get to Hotis. That's the owner's--
Taliesin: That, we'll confirm with our friend. That, we'll confirm with our person. And, seem like I don't want to use that term too loosely. We'll see what would be most advantageous for getting what we want out of this situation.
Liam: All right, so he gets what he wants and then we see if we get what we want.
Marisha: How easy is it going to be to kill this--
Laura: It won't be easy! Let's be honest.
Marisha: -- mysterious person?
Laura: This is going to suck!
Liam: Yeah, I mean, we had a fucking nanny who used to tell us nightmare stories about this. It's way worse than she described it.
Taliesin: Pit fiend-ish.
Marisha: So, wait, we're expecting two of you to kill something pit fiend-ish level--
Taliesin: No, all of us.
Marisha: I-- what? What is happening?
Taliesin: All of us. We're going to kill this thing--
Marisha: So we all kill the thing and then two of you get arrested and then the rest of us follow you?
Taliesin: All of us get arrested.
Liam: All of us get arrested.
Marisha: We're all getting arrested now!
Liam: Yeah, mm-hm.
Matt: "That's much better!"
Marisha: What happened to like two of us getting arrested?
Matt: "That's much better, I like that plan."
Travis: Explain to me about the contract. So, in the contract, if he doesn't hold up his end of the bargain, like, he explodes or something, right? It's a magic contract?
Taliesin: It will quite possibly be a magic contract.
Laura: You're not going to have to sign anything, yeah?
Travis: Because if we get arrested, and they take all our goodies, and we're in a cell, I'm going to kill all of you with my bare hands.
Taliesin: We're going to ask him this downstairs. I just want to take it to you and see if everyone thinks that we're going this direction. We'll make the most comfortable deal we can, but honestly, I'm very curious if anybody has any better ideas.
Matt: "We've already gone to hell. Let's also go to prison!"
Marisha: We could try and just straight-up espionage--
Travis: Prison assault.
Marisha: -- stealth this. Prison assault, and I could do a Locate Creature, and we could just figure out where Hotis is and try and completely, yeah, prison break this. Without signing any contracts.
Taliesin: Full-frontal assault on a demon prison in the basement of--
Marisha: I'm not saying full-frontal, I'm saying--
Liam: Well, walk us through it again. Walk me through it again, one more time.
Marisha: We're stealthy motherfuckers, right?
Travis: We don't know where the prison is.
Matt: Tary raises his hand slowly, "Doty, put your hand up."
Laura: These are the least stealthy people I think I've ever seen, and we know Pike.
Matt: "I mean no offense, big guy, but--"
Travis: What?
Matt: "Nothing."
Laura: He's quiet.
Matt: "Nothing."
Laura: He's really quiet.
Matt: "Su-- Nothing at all."
Laura: His boots are made of fur.
Matt: "I know, they're beautiful. Did you make those?"
Laura: They're very quiet.
Travis: No.
Liam: But you two, Kerry, are very loud. Is what you're saying.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: "(squeaky voice) I get nervous."
Marisha: Barry, is there any way that you can, like, (sighs) condense Doty? Put him in your po-- No?
Liam: I mean, reality is, two of us are stealthy. Everybody else is mediocre or worse.
Marisha: I'm really good. Okay? Really good. I know you're talking about you and your sister, but I'm really good, too. Just want to point that out.
Liam: Okay.
Taliesin: Lava.
Marisha: Fuck. Off. Percy. Fuck off.
Liam: Wow.
Marisha: That had nothing to do with stealth. That had straight only to do with dexterity, which is not my strong suit.
Travis: Hey, Beekus, you just said his real name.
Marisha: (sighs) Freddie. Fuck.
Travis: So, hey, Freddie, like, how long do you think guy downstairs will give us to decide?
Taliesin: I figure-- Well, if we're going to do this, I think we should do it quickly.
Laura: Oh my god.
Liam: Probably listening to us.
Marisha: No, they're not. I'm getting--
Travis: Not supposed to make any deals. We could just try and do it on our own. The deal might put us in a position where we're totally fucked.
Taliesin: It might.
Travis: We don't even know where the prison is.
Marisha: (whispers) But we could find out.
Travis: You think.
Laura: Can you cast Locate Creature right now?
Marisha: Yes! Yes, I can!
Laura: Just cast it and see.
Marisha: I 100% can!
Liam: Let's do it.
Laura: Let's do it.
Marisha: I fucking cast Locate Creature!
Matt: Okay.
Liam: See, part of our problem is sometimes-- always, we grab the first opportunity in front of our fucking faces, so--
Travis: Isn't that the way life is?
Liam: Let's explore this opportunity.
Taliesin: What level are you casting Locate Creature at?
Liam: 27.
Marisha: Level? It's a level two-- a level four spell.
Matt: Yep.
Taliesin: Will that work on him?
Matt: You cannot cast it at a higher level. Well, you can cast it at a higher level, but there's no effect.
Marisha: It doesn't do anything.
Taliesin: Okay. I was curious if he has a blind spot or not.
Matt: All right, so, you take a moment, you finish casting Locate Creature. You concentrate once again on Hotis, keeping a very clear image of what you saw in the Scry spell. As you complete the spell--
Liam: Ho-Dis.
Matt: -- nothing.
Marisha: What?
Laura: Because it's a level fucking four.
Taliesin: It's all right.
Matt: Well, the creature has to be within 1000 feet.
Laura: Oh.
Marisha: And it has to be within-- But it lasts for an hour. It's a concentration spell.
Matt: It is.
Travis: Just take off running around the city, man. Boom! Marathon Woman. Go get it.
Marisha: I can fly. I can look and fly.
Taliesin: Turn into an imp.
Travis: (sings) She's a maniac, man-- oh, he's down there!
Marisha: I could go right now and fly around while it lasts for an hour. Do a quick scout.
Travis: How do you fly?
Marisha: With fucking Beast Shape by being like a beasty thing.
Travis: Can you do that and concentrate at the same time?
Marisha: Yeah. That's at-will.
Travis: Yeah, sure off, go on. Fly off by yourself, nobody cares.
Liam: I'll go with her.
Travis: How do you go?
Laura: You're not a-- well, it doesn't matter.
Liam: I'm not what? What am I not?
Laura: A tiefling anymore.
Marisha: Yeah.
Liam: I know. But she's a big fucking bird, I mean--
Marisha: I don't have to be a big fucking bird--
Laura: She could be a succubus.
Marisha: -- I could be literally a tiny fucking bird, or a succubus.
Liam: All right, do your thing.
Marisha: If I am a succubus, though, it's burning my 9th-level spell and we're done for the night.
Travis: You get captured or eaten out there, we're done for the night anyway. (laughs)
Taliesin: Fair.
Liam: Hell is tearing this team apart.
Marisha: What were the weird imp things that I saw flying around?
Travis: Imps.
Laura: Those are the golden armored things
Marisha: The gold armor imps.
Matt: There are impish creatures with golden armor that you saw at a distance in the sky above.
Laura: Was there anything else flying other than them?
Matt: There were other creatures flying, but they were too far away to really make up any decent-- and some of them of them were just imps, just the tiny little devils that fly around, and there were some that seemed a little larger with humanoid bodies and giant, leathery wings that were just coasting through.
Liam: And you said this is like the biggest city we've ever seen?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: There are things that fly here?
Matt: There are many things that fly. The first thing you saw when you looked up in the sky was at least a dozen or so winged creatures all up in the clouds.
Laura: Oh, god.
Marisha: I can go. Going to the window. Anyone stopping me?
Laura: There's no window, it's just wall.
Marisha: There's no windows. Anyone stopping me as I Alter Self and--
Travis: This is your game, go for it.
Marisha: -- head towards the door? No?
Travis: Do it.
Marisha: No one? All right, I'm going to go do a quick pass. (laughs)
Liam: Oh, gosh. Be careful.
Travis: Have that backup character ready. (laughter)
Laura: She becomes leader of the Ashari and dies as soon as she gets to hell.
Taliesin: One day.
Travis: Go get it, keep going. Momentum!
Marisha: All right, all right, all right, all right, all right. I'm going to Shapechange.
Matt: You're casting Shapechange, okay.
Marisha: Level nine.
Matt: All right, what are you turning into?
Marisha: I'm going to do a succubus. I know I've got a good look at them and they can fly.
Laura: Wait, are succubuses devils down here or are they demons?
Marisha: They're devils.
Liam: Those are devils, and we saw one under Krieg's house.
Matt: They're fiends.
Laura: Okay. They're fiends.
Marisha: And they're kind of rogue agents. I'm hoping no one questions this.
Matt: Okay. So you have succubus.
Marisha: Shit. Okay. Mm. Just-- quick loop.
Liam: Ermahgerd.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Yeah, ermahgerd--
Laura: Ermahgerd.
Marisha: I, as the tiefling, walk out of the tavern, just very intent on my direction. As I walk out of the building, I take a left, hang down an alleyway, check over my shoulder, make sure no one's watching and then (fwoof) into a succubus and take off.
Matt: Okay, make a stealth check real fast.
Travis: Oh god.
Laura: Oh god.
Marisha: Fucking hell.
Taliesin: Fucking hell is right.
Travis: (sings) Highway to the danger zone.
Marisha: Just a straight-- oh, that's good, that's good. 20 total. No, no, 21 total.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I forgot my proficiency bonus went up.
Matt: As you exit the building and turn right and into the alleyway, being careful not to be seen in your tiefling form, begin to cast the spell as you see two shadows step into the entranceway of the alleyway.
Marisha: Nope. I stop it.
Matt: Okay. So you stop it?
Marisha: Yep, and I just kind of keep walking.
Matt: You just keep walking? Okay. You don't even look back, you just keep walking?
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: Okay. Keep walking, and you hear footsteps behind you.
Marisha: I start blocking around.
Matt: Okay. As you go blocking around, the footsteps seem to be keeping pace with you. There's two sets of them.
Marisha: Peek over my shoulder. Do I get a glimpse on who they are?
Matt: You see what appears to be a squat, kind of tan-skinned dwarf-like figure.
Marisha: It's the dwarf again.
Matt: The features, like you expect to see a dwarf, appears to be a female dwarf of some kind, but there's some sort of physical alteration's taken place. They look like they've been either very injured and healed wrong, or some sort of corruption has taken place. But it's walking forward with this hobbling gait, and to the left you see the other entity that is just wrapped in chains, and they're about 30 feet behind you.
Marisha: 30 feet behind me?
Matt: About 30 feet behind you, yeah.
Marisha: Are we alone?
Matt: It's just you and the two of them right now. Just in this small alleyway off in the building that's immediately adjacent to the structure where you're staying.
Marisha: I'm still, I imagine, within range of the tavern?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Just gonna say, I'm being followed so be on alert. Same dwarven chainy figure.
Laura: Should we come out?
Liam: Do you need us out there?
Marisha: No, just wait a second, I'll say Jenga if need be.
Taliesin: Stretching.
Marisha: I stop, about-face, and light up my hands and keep the hood up. And just say, I know you're there. What do you want, and who are you? Keep the hood up.
Matt: Head's down. The footsteps slow when they get about 20 feet from you. And they stop. You keep your head down. The dwarf figure brings one weird, swollen, twisted arm in front of the other, crosses it. The chained figure, you hear all the jangling, shifting, and as you get a better glance over your shoulder towards it, you can see the chains that dangle don't just dangle, they're all kind of slowly shifting and spinning around, like hundreds of small snakes that are just readjusting and moving across the body. You can see its eyes, part of its nose through as the chains pull across and hide most of its features. The skin itself a deep, deep pinkish-red, like a normal body that's been constricted so much that all the blood has rushed to the surface.
Marisha: Off-the-cuff, do they seem familiar? Any idea on who they might be?
Matt: No. But there is a heavy breathing from the female dwarf figure that just-- they glance at each other.
Marisha: I say, do you want to tell me? You want to tell me who you are? 'Cause I don't have a lot of time to deal with this.
Matt: The chained one says, "You seem to walk with a white one."
Marisha: Who's asking?
Matt: "I am asking."
Marisha: 'I' could be referred to many people, including myself. So I am asking--
Matt: "Silence. You will bring us the white one, or you will be tribute yourself."
Marisha: What do you want with him?
Matt: There's no response.
Marisha: I don't think you'd want me as tribute, so you'd best bet tell me what you want with him, because maybe we could strike a deal.
Matt: "The white one caught the attention of a creature that I wish to see pleased."
Marisha: Well, is this creature willing to make a deal? Because the white one belongs to me.
Matt: "You have ownership of the white one?"
Marisha: Of course.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Liam: It's not really lying.
Marisha: (laughs) It's not really a-- Not great. Six total. (laughter)
Marisha: It's not entirely wrong, though.
Matt: "Hm." You hear the chains intensify with the rattling and clanking. "Perhaps you should walk with us."
Marisha: Where are we going?
Matt: "To the one who wishes to now know of your ownership."
Marisha: And if I decline?
Matt: "Then you will no longer be able to stop us."
Marisha: I'm sorry, I still didn't catch your name.
Matt: "You do not need our name." And that's where we're going to leave tonight's episode. (all groan)
Marisha: Oh, what?!
Taliesin: Yeah! I love Hells, man.
Matt: It's 11AM, or 11PM, and that's a fun place to pick up next week.
Laura: Oh my gosh. Oh no!
Taliesin: Oh no.
Travis: I could be many people, it could all f-- Silence! (laughter)
Taliesin: Or that, okay.
Marisha: It's kind of a pejorative, you know. Do we need to know like-- what kind of "I"? Is this this royal "I"?
Travis: It's royal "we".
Marisha: The royal "we"?
Matt: Shapechange, how you force me into bringing even more minis to the game every week. (laughter)
Matt: Just in case.
Travis: Multiple bags.
Taliesin: We can leave them here now.
Matt: I'm doing that.
Marisha: I didn't burn the spell, right? I stopped it, I didn't burn the spell, I stopped it. Right? Because I was like "Cancel cancel cancel", come on, man.
Taliesin: My vibe is it didn't burn.
Marisha: I thought it didn't burn either.
Matt: I will say, just for the sake of this, for the sake of-- this roll will determine this. Roll-- what's your passive perception actually?
Marisha: My passive perception?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: Pretty good.
Taliesin: You've got to do something about that. That's becoming a problem.
Marisha: Shut up.
Laura: Shut up. (laughs)
Marisha: 21.
Matt: 21? I'll say you cancelled it, you did manage to just catch their movement out of the corner of your eye, just as you entered the alleyway, and you-- just as you were about to begin the spell, they arrived.
Marisha: All right.
Matt: That's only because they didn't roll very high stealth themselves. Well, cool!
Marisha: Fucking hell.
Matt: Thank you guys so much. Literally. Fucking Hells. Plural, guys.
Laura: Things aren't going very well here.
Taliesin: I think they're going great.
Matt: This is fun. I love--
Marisha: We're not slaves yet.
Laura: Hey, bonus!
Matt: I love the City of Dis. You guys just scraped the surface. All right, so we'll be back here next week on Thursday. We'll also be-- some of us will be here on Tuesday, for Talks Machina at seven. We'll talk about this chaos. We'll be at Wondercon, April 1st, 2-3PM for our Critical Role panel, please come and see us. Thank you again for Puzzle Quest for being our awesome sponsor today.
All: Yay, Puzzle Quest!
Matt: So check out Marvel Puzzle Quest, and until next week guys, is it Thursday yet? Good night.
Travis: We are in deep shit! [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons.
Travis: That's what we do!
Matt: Yep! So, welcome. We had a brief break last week as Liam brought us through his delightfully dark and twisted mind. Thank you again, Liam, for running that.
Laura: Creepy!
Liam: I went to Catholic school!
Matt: It was awesome.
Marisha: Why am I not surprised?
Matt: So, anyway, glad you could join us. Before we jump into tonight's game, we have some quick announcements to make. First and foremost, you want to talk about some new merch stuff that just got in there? What the hell you've got right there?
Marisha: What's that?
Ashley: What are these?
Laura: What are these? These shirts are in the store right now! And the color, and they're so soft, I'll be petting you guys throughout the whole night.
Liam: They're soft like the hoodie. They're like a thin version of the soft hoodie.
Laura: If you have the Gilmore shirt, it feels like the Gilmore shirt. Also, the Critical Role dice are coming back in stock very soon, but they are on preorder right now in the store. You can go in and get on that. We also have the CR enamel pin back in stock, so you can check that shit out in the store right now. We'll wait.
Matt: Awesome. Let's see. There's a new Signal Boost coming out this week with kind of a cool person who hosted that. Who's that?
Travis: DM O'Drien!
Liam: I am not cool, so you are not talking about me.
Marisha: It's actually going to play during the break.
Liam: Oh yeah?
Marisha: Yeah!
Liam: So you can hear about all my artsy-fartsy theatrical sad hangups from the past? Oh joy, guys!
Marisha: Yeah, yeah! You'll like it! So stick around!
Matt: Look forward to that. And also, a reminder that MomoCon's coming up, end of next month, where Taliesin, Marisha and I will be guests and, as of recently, our good friend Brian Wayne Foster will also be joining us for a Talks Machina live panel at the event, which will be fun.
Matt: MomoCon!
Liam: Yeah, MomoCon is just fun to say. MomoCon.
Laura: We're all going to say it.
Matt: Yeah. So we'll be there, it'll be fun. It's May 25th to the 28th, in Atlanta, Georgia. Look forward to seeing you guys there.
Liam: Oh my gosh, oh my gosh!
Laura: Oh my, what? How? Why? (laughter)
Sam: It's the start of a new year.
Travis: Why doesn't it wrap around to the back?
Sam: I tried to get the eyes on my nipples.
Travis: Pull it down a little bit. Just give it a little tug. There it is.
Laura: I've never realized how large-- Wow, it's bulging. Those are some bulging eye sausages if I've ever seen them.
Matt: What's great is when you're not stretching it, it looks like that dumb FaceApp thing now where you can see your older version of yourself.
Laura: Have you noticed, the guys turn into girls so much better than the girls turn into guys? I mean, we look so terrible turning into--
Matt: I've seen some girl photos that turned out pretty good. Maybe it's just you guys.
Laura: You have to have your hair pulled back.
Matt: It might just be the three of you, I'm sorry. Although who did Ashley end up looking like?
Marisha: Haley Joel Osment.
Matt: Yeah, that worked out pretty well.
Ashley: Actually, a lot of people tell me that I look like him anyway.
Laura: Really?
Ashley: Him or-- I get--
Travis: Brad Pitt?
Laura: Yeah, definitely Brad Pitt.
Ashley: From the '80s band, it's a guy.
Travis: Keep going.
Ashley: Justin George?
Liam: Narrowed it down. Hum a melody.
Ashley: I can't think of a song. I'll think of it.
Liam: This is the whole episode.
Laura: And she'll just yell it out during the break. Travis makes a really ugly woman, though. I turned one of your pictures into a girl. I never should have done that.
Matt: I don't agree with that. I've seen Nip Tuck.
Travis: Thank you, Matt! Thank you.
Matt: A supportive significant other. Wednesday Club, Taliesin! Do you want to talk about Wednesday Club?
Taliesin: Actually, this one, it's going to be Matt Key is taking the reins on this one, so I don't even-- I'm not sure he's settled on what's going on, but I think we were talking about maybe Brian K. Vaughan and looking at his whole body of work, which would be a lot of fun.
Matt: There you go, that'll be fun.
Taliesin: TV writer and comic book writer. Could be cool.
Matt: Fantastic. And of course we have Talks Machina next Tuesday, live here on Twitch and Alpha at 7PM Pacific with our wonderful host, Brian Wayne Foster.
Travis: Except there won't be one.
Matt: Oh wait, there won't be one this week! Never mind, 'cause they're going to be on vacation.
Travis: 'Cause you're going out of the country. They're going to-- Where are you going, the North Pole?
Ashley: I wish we were going to the North Pole. We are going to Mexico!
Matt: Let's be nice and vague. Going to a place that's pretty.
Ashley: We're going to a place.
Matt: Which, as a note, as far as Brian was saying, you guys really haven't had a vacation together, ever.
Ashley: Never.
Matt: So, super excited that you guys have the chance to do that.
Ashley: We've almost been dating for five years and we've never gone on a vacation together.
Travis: Y'all are dating? (laughter)
Laura: Wait. What?
Matt: Well, that'll be fun. Yeah!
Marisha: Also, your Date with Matt Mercer in a Silk Robe, thanks to Brian Wayne Foster, will be up on YouTube tomorrow at 10AM.
Matt: Ho boy.
Marisha: Is that okay?
Matt: Yeah, it's fine. Prepare for a lot of port drinking.
Ashley: Boy George! Boy George! I get it a lot. I get that.
Laura: What? You don't look like-- With a lot of makeup, maybe?
Matt: Awesome, so tomorrow? All right, for those of you guys who missed it, you'll be able to see it tomorrow. No, that's fine, bring tissues.
Taliesin: That could go a number of ways.
Matt: That it can.
Taliesin: Sorry.
Matt: But no, thank you all. Thank you all who came on Tuesday to chat and talk and create some fun future characters for this storyline in the future, it'll be fun. Anyway, do we have anything else anyone wants to mention, or shall we continue?
Sam: Did you already do the shirts?
Matt: We did the shirts. That is so nightmarish, Sam.
Laura: I love it.
Sam: It's an homage.
Travis: It looks like Mercer's eating the table.
Matt: What I'm looking forward to is the eventuality that you have enough of these shirts that your closet has a section that's just my face.
Sam: Your face, my face.
Matt: Yeah, it's just this face is printed, and just having your wife eventually come up to me and having you go--
Sam: I might have enough that we can all wear one one night. (laughter)
Sam: Let me think on that.
Matt: All righty, then, without further ado, let's jump into tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: And welcome back, everyone. So, last we left off, Vox Machina, having completed a multitude of various quests over a prolonged period of time, found themselves free of immediate necessity and danger.
Travis: What?
Marisha: Brought peace to the world forever.
Matt: No, that's not true.
Marisha: Nothing bad will ever happen again.
Matt: (laughs) That's not how this works. (laughter)
Sam: Credits.
Matt: So, as the last episode wound down and friendships were strengthened, you all then began to ponder about what you wanted to do with the time before you. And today we return approximately one year after we left off. So, we met earlier this week to discuss this. We went through a various number of things you wanted to accomplish, both as individuals and some of you in groups. So we're going to go ahead and go over those elements for you guys and get everyone up to speed with what exactly has transpired in this year period of time.
Liam: Show and tell!
Matt: So, who would like to begin?
Sam: We're just going to share?
Laura: Just say what we did, what we accomplished?
Liam: Summer vacation!
Matt: Share elements of it, and then some elements will be roleplayed, because that's what I want to do.
Laura: Because that's what I want to do.
Matt: Yeah. So.
Travis: Are you pointing at me? Okay, okay. I'll start.
Matt: All right, so, Grog, what are some of the things you did?
Travis: Because I single-handedly established peace across Exandria, I found myself bored, in need of action. And so I sought out where the fight would now be. I looked for Scanlan a little bit along the way. I didn't find him.
Matt: No, you did not.
Travis: I looked for, like, magical items along the way. I didn't find them. So I went to Vasselheim, which is where the Slayer's Take is. And I think before I left, I wanted to get some personal things, like, done to my body. So I had the bear tattoo that I filleted of off Kevdak, and I had it tanned, and then I got a copy of that tattoo on my back.
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Because that shit's behind me.
All: Ooh!
Matt: So you now have Kevdak's bear-totem tattoo that was on his chest, now on your back.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Out of sheer disrespect for him.
Travis: Totes.
Matt: I love it.
Liam: Did you get a bear ass on your bare ass?
Travis: Much better idea. I also took Kevdak's skull, the top of it, and I had a new cup, a new mug made out of it. With metal bits and stuff, with a handle.
Matt: Yeah, yeah. Okay.
Travis: I don't understand how, but it looks really great. It's like metal and bone, and I (drinking sounds). That's me.
Matt: That's delicious.
Travis: I just choked on a peanut.
Laura: Yeah. Oh Grog. I heard it happen.
Travis: So, I went to Vasselheim, and I defended my title in the Crucible.
Matt: Yeah. Met multiple times.
Travis: Multiple times.
Matt: Including once against a familiar individual called Kern the Hammer.
Travis: Kern the Hammer, he came back with that monk shit.
Matt: Yeah. And did not prevail.
Travis: Nope.
Matt: However, he did come back to you, requesting to learn and train under you, to teach him your ways. To which you said--
Travis: I forgot. No. Yes. I said yes.
Matt: You said no.
Travis: I said no. (laughter)
Matt: That's what you told me, at least.
Travis: I said no. I said no, because I was like, you've got to drink, all the time, and this, and he just wasn't up to snuff. That, and I should not be teaching anyone anything. So then I went to the Slayer's Take, right, in search of big game. And I had fun with that for a while, but it just wasn't quite the same. It wasn't crazy-ass, you know, ancient dragons or nothing. It just wasn't quite up to snuff. But I did have my curiosity about the Deck of Many Things piqued. So, at some point along the way, Vex's warnings ringing in my ears, I found a nice drunk sap to--
Matt: So, so, as you are wandering down an evening byway in the Quadroads of Vasselheim, a number of cups in yourself, you hiccup loudly and glance off to the side to find one gentleman who's been far deeper in his cups and is currently trying to steady himself against the stone wall in an alleyway.
Travis: Yup. Hey, you!
Matt: "What?"
Travis: You. You look like a mighty warrior. Do you need another drink?
Matt: "Oh, if you're buying, yeah."
Travis: Yeah, I do. I have one. And I pour him a little bit from the keg. Hey, do you have like, a wife, kids, attachments? Anyone that would miss you?
Matt: "You think if I did I'd be drinking this hard?"
Travis: I'm going to take that as a no. Cool, hey, look, I don't know if you're interested, but I have, in my possession, something really cool. And I take out the Deck. Do you know what this is?
Matt: "I have no idea."
Travis: Great! Great! We're in the street, right?
Matt: Yeah. You're near a thoroughfare and there's a small alley off to the side.
Travis: Good. Follow me into this alley and it'll be a deal. Just follow me over here.
Matt: Make a persuasion check. With advantage, because he's really drunk.
Marisha: For anyone who's watching, this is like, abduction, how to not-- 101, self-defense.
Matt: This is terrible.
Liam: I mean, he's either changing this guy's life for the better, or murdering him.
Travis: 19 plus one.
Matt: (laughs) You watch as in the center of his pupils a little sparkle of interest kicks in. And, I mean, five percent soberer at the prospect of something fun of this stranger that gave him a drink and goes: "Wait, what are you talking about?"
Travis: Well, listen. I am kind of like an evangelical spreader of good news. And I found this. And one time I pulled a card out and I got a magic weapon. It was amazing. And I just figured, like, you look like a guy that would appreciate such a weapon, so--
Matt: (belches)
Travis: -- and I open the Deck. I thought maybe you would like to draw a card.
Matt: He takes a second and looks around. Looks at the Deck. "Is this some sort of a magic trick?"
Travis: Yes. Yep.
Matt: "All right. Do you want me to tell you what it is?"
Travis: Sure. Yeah. Just draw it and-- Actually, just hold it and don't tell me what it is.
Matt: Okay. Let me get my cards out.
Laura: Oh my God.
Ashley: You have an actual set?
Laura: What the actual fuck is happening right now?
Travis: It was a fucking year. Did you not think this was going to happen? (laughter)
Travis: It probably happened in the first week.
Liam: This is the first of ten guys.
Travis: Lot of problems, lot of drinking, lot of fighting. Ran out of shit.
Sam: What if you die? What if you die right now?
Travis: I'm not. He's drawing the card.
Laura: Yeah, but you could still die.
Sam: It could kill-- It could kill you too.
Travis: Could it?
Sam: I think so.
Travis: I'm not really sure on how this shit works. But I need another card to come out of that Deck.
Matt: Yeah, maybe.
Laura: Oh my God. Oh no, what did he pull. What did he pull?
Matt: No. No. No. Huh. I'm going to let somebody else pull this. Who wants to pull it?
Travis: Oh, you raise your hand to pull from the Deck? Thats some bullshit.
Laura: Oh no. Should I turn it?
Travis: Ooh. Ooh.
Laura: Do you know what that is?
Travis: No, I don't remember.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: It's just, it looked ominous.
Travis: It was a face card, though.
Taliesin: It was a face card. Oh. Oh.
Matt: (laughs)
Laura: Oh no. Is it amazing? Did he get something really good?
Taliesin: You're the DM now.
Matt: Hold on. I have to roll a die first. (laughs) He takes the card and looks at it. Turns around and shows you, and it's this tarot card of a beautiful moonscape, with an open night sky. I believe that's what it is. Yeah, that's what it is. He puts it back in the Deck, and is like: "All right, what's the trick? I'm-- I'm feeling a little-- a little strange."
Travis: Could you describe to me how you feel right now?
Matt: And he's like trying to contemplate it. He goes: "Wait a second. I wish that I was a powerful lord of the Quadroads." And there's a strange, tingling visual image as the cloth around him that was tattered and worn-out becomes beautiful silks--
Laura: Oh my God.
Matt: The drunkenness fades from him ever-so-slightly, and now he looks washed. And you glance over at the far end of the alleyway, and there's a guy there who's dressed in long, long tails and a coat and goes: "Sir, how long are you going to be?" He goes: "Right with you. I don't even know what his name is. Well, thank you so much, stranger." And he pats you on the shoulder.
Travis: Grog. Grog.
Matt: "Grog."
Travis: Grog Strongjaw.
Matt: "Grog Strongthings."
Travis: Maker of kings.
Matt: "Great."
Travis: Yup.
Matt: "I still got one more of these." And he walks off and runs off to the carriage.
Laura: He got two wishes?
Matt: 1d3 wishes.
Travis: Are you fucking serious?
Sam: Wait, he got two wishes? You gave away two wishes?
Travis: (shouts) Wait! What was your name?
Matt: The queen of diamonds was the card.
Travis: Did I get his name?
Matt: You didn't get his name. He just runs off.
Taliesin: Lord of the Quadroads, now.
Sam: You just got a cure for cancer, and you gave it away?
Laura: Wait, wait, I have a question. Once a card has been pulled, is it gone from the Deck, or does it go back in?
Liam: Some go back, and some--
Laura: Oh my God.
Travis: I should just pull all of these right now. (groaning)
Travis: I mean, obviously, it was just a little appetizer, the first one.
Matt: Well, let me see here. Let me see. Let me see.
Travis: That is way better.
Taliesin: (laughs) You want to pull another one.
Sam: Matt's verifying.
Laura: Verifying that he did the right thing?
Travis: He's double-checking.
Sam: This is important.
Laura: I know. Yeah.
Matt: Once the card is drawn, it fades from existence.
Taliesin: Oh there's no other-- No, the Wish card goes.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: The best card is fucking gone. It is the best card, isn't it?
Liam: Now the Deck is slightly shittier.
Sam: Way shittier!
Matt: But you know what?
Travis: You know what? Only one person picked that card from the Deck. So it's not really my fault.
Sam: It's Laura's fault?
Taliesin: Good roll, Laura.
Laura: Thank you, thank you. Hey, man.
Matt: That one's gone, now.
Taliesin: Lord of the Quadroads now owes you a favor.
Laura: Yeah!
Marisha: That's true!
Travis: It was the queen of diamonds, right? Yeah.
Ashley: I say, at the end of all this, we all pick one.
Liam: Who was that man? That was Taliesin Jaffe, Mayor of Ren Faire!
Taliesin: Huzzah!
Ashley: Huzzah!
Laura: What's going on, Matt?
Matt: Just double-checking to make sure the card goes away, and it does, according to how it's written.
Travis: Clearly, nobody in my group knows what they're talking about. This Deck is a mighty gift!
Laura: Fuck.
Taliesin: We're doomed.
Travis: And I put it back in the Bag of Holding.
Matt: Okay. I was like, "Oh god, is he going to draw another card?"
Liam: Two-hour combat scenario.
Travis: I want to, really bad, but I have an open bar tab.
Matt: Okay then! You, in your time away, radically changed some poor man's life! And, apparently, Wished himself to some level of nobility within the Quadroads of Vasselheim, with one Wish still standing!
Laura: That's amazing.
Travis: Okay!
Marisha: Remember that guy.
Travis: Lord of the Crossroads? Quadroads?
Matt: Well, there are many lords and ladies of the Quadroads, he's just now one of them.
Travis: Good deal. That happened.
Matt: I was thinking to myself it was either going to be that or some grim reaper's going to show up and cut his head off.
Travis: That's all I wanted, really. Just cheer him on, maybe have a little better counterweight for my expectation of the Deck, but now I just want to pull one every day. Nothing but good shit happens! Magic weapon! Fucking Wishes!
Matt: So if this happened early in your year, do you still resist the urge as the year progresses?
Laura: Oh no.
Travis: No.
Laura: Oh, Jesus!
Taliesin: Yay!
Matt: How long does it take until the urge creeps up again?
Travis: I mean, oh god, why do I have to be so fucking true to my character?
Taliesin: There's nothing we can do!
Laura: We're not even there!
Liam: Probably thinks he has three birthdays a year, right? So.
Travis: I will probably wait to take it back so that I can open it with my good friend, Pike. Because she'll understand that this is an awesome deck.
Matt: Which actually plays into her opening. The other thing you did, which happens towards the end of the year, is you said you went to the Frostweald.
Travis: I did, yeah. I was curious about the werewolves. So I went to go see the nymph in the frozen lake. You know, the one that's all about Grog.
Matt: Mm-hm.
Travis: So I had a conversation with her, and I felt really bad because I wasn't as affectionate as last time, so I gave her this palm-sized ruby that was at the bottom of the bag. Looked really pretty, so I gave it to her.
Matt: She thanked you.
Travis: She did. We hit it off. And I asked her if the werewolves were just in the Feywild. Turns out--
Matt: Lycanthropy is scattered throughout the planes.
Travis: Well, I didn't fucking know that.
Matt: Now you do. She passed that information on to you. All right. So. That's the truncated example of Grog's year. We might come back to it here in a minute. Next up would be Pike, because that's a good transition point there. So, what'd you do?
Ashley: All right. So I followed, in the beginning-- did the guy pick the Deck in Vasselheim? Or were you--
Matt: It was in Vasselheim.
Travis: It was in Vasselheim.
Ashley: So I went with Grog to Vasselheim. And because I wanted to go and read and work on some things--
Matt: Check in on your temple that you built there.
Ashley: Yes. I ended up fighting (laughs) because I saw him fight, and I was like, oh, I should probably just try it!
Travis: Yeah!
Ashley: And did well.
Matt: Yeah!
Ashley: I'm the second champion under Grog.
Laura: Fuck yes!
Matt: And as everyone was pitting both of you against each other for another championship bout, you both decided to--
Ashley: Do it. No! To fight!
Travis: To kill each other.
Ashley: We didn't end up doing it.
Travis: Nope.
Ashley: We just shook--
Travis: Yep. ASHLEY -- and we knew both of us were just too powerful--
Travis: Too true!
Ashley: -- and I would win. So we just decided not to do it.
Travis: Two monsters of a feather stay in leather.
Ashley: Two monsters of a feather. Also, in that time, which was a five-month period, we had a lot of lessons and taught Grog how to read.
Laura: Yay!
Ashley: Just a little bit.
Travis: Just a little.
Matt: You can slowly read four- to five-letter words.
Marisha: Five-letter words is a big deal!
Laura: That's a big fucking deal.
Matt: He knows how to write his name now.
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: And he can write a full sentence over a short rest.
Travis: Yep. (laughter)
Travis: Meat. Cat.
Liam: Farts. Farts.
Travis: Doody, with a Y.
Marisha: Does he get exhausted from reading?
Matt: We'll cross that bridge when we get to it. (laughter)
Ashley: Wait, what did you ask?
Marisha: If he gets mentally exhausted from reading. Takes a point of exhaustion when he tries to read.
Ashley: I'm so tired!
Travis: I'm tired now!
Ashley: I took some time to learn how to be just a little bit more stealthy.
Laura: Yeah!
Ashley: Just did a little bit of training. Not a ton, but maybe, we'll see. I also went to check on great-great-grandpappy Wilhand to see how he was doing, and he's doing fine. He's older.
Matt: Wilhand. Yeah, he's doing good. The home that was damaged in the Umbrasyl attack on Westruun, your room has been repaired. Though it's taken a little while, because it's mainly just him hiring who he can at the time. But he's doing well. He's "an old gnome, but still kicking around! Still doing his best, still doing his prayers to Sarenrae, glad to see you coming, saying hi."
Ashley: Oh, of course. Always.
Marisha: Does he still have Fassbender?
Ashley: I've totally forgot about Fassbender! Didn't he die?
Laura: No, no, no, we left Fassbender with him.
Ashley: Oh shit, I forgot about Fassbender.
Sam: No, I thought that we lost him in the dragon fight.
Laura: No, no, no, we left him with Wilhand.
Ashley: He's keeping him safe. He probably helped build the house.
Matt: If you ask him about that, ask him where Fassbender is, he's like, "Oh, this nice older fella came by and said it was his property? So I gave it back to him. He seemed very--"
Laura: It was that dick.
Matt: "-- very intent on receiving his property, and I wasn't about to argue."
Ashley: That's okay.
Laura: He was technically his.
Ashley: It was technically his. I also sent a little bit of money to -- I don't know where they are, but I hired somebody to send a letter and some money to some of my family.
Matt: Yeah, some of the Trickfoots.
Ashley: Yeah. And what else? Oh, last, but certainly not least, we opened up a bakery.
Sam: Oh, yeah!
Laura: Yes we did!
Sam: What's it called?
Ashley: It's called-- tell 'em.
Laura: It's called-- well, this was Tary's idea-- it's called the Slayer's Cake.
Ashley: And we have many, many items.
Laura: Delicious Sun Treats.
Ashley: Sun Treats. Bear Claws. Angel Food Cake.
Marisha: Some Tree Bark that Keyleth made.
Ashley: So many treats and treasures.
Sam: Bear Claws?
Marisha: Definitely Bear Claws, yeah. Out of Whitestone, of course.
Laura: Obviously, yeah.
Matt: Bear Claws? Is that it? Did you guys make Bear Claws?
Ashley: So Tary, Keyleth, Vex and I just decided on a drunken evening, we were like, we should open up a bakery!
Laura: Let's just fuckin' do it! (laughter)
Laura: We found this building that was pretty abandoned in Whitestone, we fuckin' put in a bakery.
Marisha: We should just do this tomorrow. We should do it tomorrow.
Matt: Whitestone needs more commerce.
Laura: That's right.
Ashley: It does.
Matt: And there are plenty of vacant buildings that are starting to fill up as people move back in.
Laura: That's why we did it, 'cause we wanted to help the economy.
Marisha: Yeah.
Ashley: Yeah.
Taliesin: Anything to get you out of the wine cellar is such a good idea.
Marisha: Yeah. Plus, small-business tax breaks, it was good all the way around.
Taliesin: You're not getting a tax break.
Marisha: What?
Ashley: I did try looking for Scanlan at one point.
Matt: You did, yeah.
Ashley: But I couldn't find him.
Matt: Yeah. It led you all the way to Emon, I think it was, then it went cold. Yeah.
Ashley: Yeah. Yes. And what was the last thing. Oh, we went to go see--
Matt: We'll get to that.
Ashley: -- something great.
Matt: Yeah, we'll get to that.
Ashley: Yeah. So that's what I did on my year of break.
Matt: All right, who wants to go next?
Sam: Are we going in order, or-- what are we doing?
Laura: I mean, I guess we can, yeah. All right, well, I spent my beginning of the year trying to find the baby of the Grey Render that I sent on its way. Mortally.
Matt: Yes, you discovered that there was an offspring. There was a singular offspring in the Parchwood, not too far from where you saw it emerge in your vision. And upon finally finding it, it was young and defensive and feral and, after--
Laura: Very angry.
Matt: Very angry. And day after day you returned with various foods and meat and trying to connect with it, and did not succeed.
Laura: I did not. I failed miserably.
Liam: So many shit rolls.
Laura: So many shit rolls!
Matt: Yeah. It fled southward into the Parchwood, and while you now have sent your Grey Hunt that is now working below you to keep an eye out for it, it has not been seen since.
Laura: Yes. I am on the lookout in case it comes close to our territory. I want to keep our people safe. But I'm not going to go and try to kill it just for the shits.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Yeah. I also built my house!
Matt: Mm-hm.
Laura: Yes! New house, new house! And built up the guard. And I made a nice little animal sanctuary for Trinket, a nice garden area for him to hang out in, and other wildlife should they so desire. Oh, and Tary, Tary moved in.
Sam: I didn't have a place to stay.
Laura: And I have such a large house, you might as well just come and live over here, right?
Sam: Well, I mean, if you'll have me.
Laura: Of course, darling!
Sam: I can sleep on a couch.
Laura: No, no, no, you'll have your own room.
Sam: Excellent, because I don't think I could sleep on a couch. (laughter)
Laura: You're wonderful.
Sam: You're not so bad, either.
Laura: Oh, you! And I became, for Whitestone, the ambassador to Syngorn. So I'm working on making a Teleportation Circle, is that what they're called?
Matt: Yeah. You're having a Teleportation Circle placed within your estate in Whitestone, and at the end of the year it's still two weeks out from creation. So it's going to take a little while longer, but it is in the process.
Laura: Trying to make amends, to make peace with my father, trying to forgive and grow and move on. And while Tary was living in the house--
Sam: Braiding hair.
Laura: Oh my gosh, just doing so many things, we decided to make armor out of Vorugal, so I have new white dragon leather armor that Tary helped me enchant. Actually, that Tary enchanted and I hung out with him, for five months, while he did that.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Yeah, that happened. (laughter)
Sam: A lot of hard work, but I learned something from it.
Laura: Yeah, that I'm really good company, basically.
Sam: Yeah, yep. She knows two songs. She sings them all the time. (laughter)
Laura: And Trinket gives amazing massages.
Sam: That's true.
Laura: Yes. I think that's pretty much it, outside of the bakery, which has taken up a lot of time, really.
Matt: Yeah. You did also research some--
Laura: Yes! I spent a fuckton of time! I'm building up my library in the house, so I spent a lot of time researching Orcus and the Raven Queen and learning everything that I can about all of them. All of them.
Matt: All right. And Vax?
Liam: Everything's going to start to get a little intertwined here now.
Matt: Which is why I led it along this way, so, yeah.
Liam: Yeah, yeah. So, overarching theme is, there was a lot of Zephra and chill. (laughter)
Liam: Enjoyed not being on death's door every fucking day and relaxing and being the right hand of the Queen back in Zephra, and--
Marisha: Chief.
Liam: I'm still learning the lingo. Getting to know Korren a bit more. Keyleth helped me-- I let a lot of blood and made a small altar to the Raven Queen in Zephra and it's been all flowered and vined out. And while we spent most of our time-- Oh, tattoos, want to talk tattoos?
Marisha: Yeah, since Keyleth-- the mantle's a little heavy and flashy and a little formal to wear all the time, but wanted something to still represent my chiefdom.
Sam: Did you get antlers tattooed on your face? (laughter)
Matt: Just right there.
Laura: Ooh, that actually could be pretty tight. Like those elves in Dragon Age.
Marisha: Keyleth goes hard, yeah. No, I got the traditional Ashari tattoos of the mantle across her chest and shoulders to mimic that.
Laura: That's super tight.
Liam: We went together. Yours took much longer than mine did. Yeah.
Marisha: It took a while. It's old needle-and-hammer style. All traditional.
Liam: Yeah, and about two-thirds of the way through yours, they started on mine, which is just a pair of antlers on the right bicep here.
Marisha: See, he got the antlers.
Sam: Nice.
Laura: Oh, did you really?
Liam: I did. Not on my face.
Laura: Oh, that's great. That's so cute.
Matt: Right next to the barbed wire.
Liam: Yeah. Keyleth for life. So we spent a lot of time in Zephra, but since have-druid-will-travel, we met up with these two quite a bit. About once a month, we would have three- or four-day weekends. We'd spent time in Whitestone. We went to Vasselheim a lot. The twins spent a lot of time in the library.
Laura: Yes, we did.
Liam: Reading a ton. I spent a lot of time at the Raven Queen's temple, getting to know the people there, getting to know what the hell a cleric or a priest or a paladin of the Raven Queen does, since I didn't really have any time to do that.
Matt: Part of your process there, once you had been fully accepted into the Order there, some of the few responsibilities you had were, you were called whenever relatively important figures in the city had passed away, to go and give rites when they were interred and be present during a number of funerals in there. That was one of the earlier responsibilities that was given to you within Vasselheim while you were there.
Liam: I tried to do a little observing, too, in Zephra as well. I didn't want to interfere with their customs, but it's like working at a funeral home, and over time you just get used to it. A couple of bits and pieces. I saw everybody, really. I went on a man's weekend with Grog and killed things, that was awesome. Talked a lot of shop with Pike. God talk. The girls went off on their own a little bit, so I spent time trying to figure out what it was Percival does in his workshop. He lent me a book about the history of Whitestone.
Taliesin: I did, I also sent you on a tour of the frescoes, it was quite nice.
Liam: It's beautiful, once you're not screaming, running on fire, you can really take in art and pass notes.
Taliesin: It had been years since I'd done it without being on fire, running around. Yes.
Liam: Also tried to locate Dr. Dranzel in an effort to find Scanlan, but was unsuccessful.
Matt: Yes.
Travis: You ate raw meat with me.
Liam: Yeah, and kept it down.
Travis: You did. Like a champ.
Sam: Do you like me? Check this box.
Liam: Are we married? Yes or no. (laughter)
Taliesin: Check one. Carry on, carry on.
Liam: Oh, and last thing, Vex took me to Syngorn on one of her trips. Spent some time with little sis. Not as much time with Dad. Some time with Dad. We're all right.
Laura: Eh, it's whatever.
Liam: It's fine.
Matt: Yeah, you've arranged a respect. There is no familial bond, per se, with him, but a lot of the tension has died away and there is a business, positive interaction.
Laura: Yeah, there's finally this feeling that we don't need-- at least, for me-- his approval anymore, which is very nice.
Matt: No, and he acknowledges that, and he seems both simultaneously proud and sad, almost a mild regret that, perhaps, I think he realizes now what he missed out on.
Laura: How fucking cool we are?
Matt: Kind of.
Sam: Well, you were until that. (laughter)
Laura: Just so fucking cool. Thanks for the note.
Liam: In character, in character. You know, elfs going to elf, and there's no getting around that, so.
Matt: Exactly. All righty, and I think I'm to Marisha as Keyleth. Keyleth, what you got going on?
Marisha: Okay, so once again, lot of intertwining starting to go on. Got our tattoos, took a little bit of time. One of the big things that Keyleth did over the course of the year, which took a massive majority of her time, was she went on a diplomacy mission to all four of the tribes as well as Emon and Whitestone, and with the help of Percy and Tary, we came up with a system that we are calling the Crisis Orbs system, is what you called it? Where we put magical orbs in each of the cities that are basically giant panic beacons. And each city got assigned a separate color, to where if anything goes terribly wrong, someone can hit that beacon and all of the crystals will light up and whoever can respond first will do so.
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: What if some shitty 11-year-old kid just runs up and hits it?
Matt: They are heavily under guard.
Travis: Oh. Smart thinking.
Sam: By a 12-year-old.
Marisha: It's like how calling 911 is illegal. You don't do that. You don't do that..
Taliesin: You're not allowed in that room. (laughs)
Marisha: Yes, 'cause Keyleth does definitely-- Keyleth and a lot of the other Ashari dealt with a little bit of guilt after Cinderking Thordak, and wanted to make sure that if anything tragically goes wrong again, we can potentially be faster to respond. And have allies nearby. So that was a massive part of it. I also went to Whitestone and grabbed a little sprig off of the Sun Tree to propagate one of my own trees back in Vesrah. Spent a lot of time working on my alchemy, in between. I imagine we have would have crafting parties in Whitestone, yeah? And then, you know, I would do some alchemy.
Laura: I made friendship bracelets, she worked on her alchemy. So--
Marisha: Yeah, yeah. It was great. It was great. And he made dragon armor.
Sam: I was just making that fuckin' armor. (laughter)
Laura: It looked so good.
Liam: Girl better appreciate.
Matt: It's not like you have to make the armor, you commission the armor. You enchanted it for five months.
Sam: That's right.
Marisha: Took trips with Vax, and had him as my right-hand man.
Liam: Unnecessary bodyguard, yeah.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: What's his official title?
Sam: Unnecessary bodyguard. (laughter)
Liam: It's Puddin'.
Matt: Coattails of The Tempest.
Marisha: Sir Vax. The Gothy One.
Sam: Cervix? (laughter)
Matt: Maybe not that one!
Liam: That's Cervex.
Laura: I like it. (laughter)
Matt: And thus, another meme was built. (laughter)
Matt: Okay, and since you were the last of one of the intertwined events, the four of you-- Keyleth, Vax, Vex, and Pike-- all took a specific trip.
Laura: And Tary.
Matt: I'm sorry, Tary came along too. So the five of you guys took a journey into the Feywild in search of the Theatre.
Liam: (sings) The fuckin' Theatre.
Taliesin: It was amazing-- I wasn't there, but it was amazing.
Matt: You weren't there.
Marisha: Such a good show.
Laura: They integrated rap, too. It was like--
Sam: History? Wow.
Laura: Yeah, it was like a whole new way to tell history. It was just so good.
Matt: (laughs) So after searching for a few days, up northward in the forest where you recall seeing portions of the tree-- canopy line shifting and seemingly vanishing and then reappearing, you eventually stumbled upon a large, wooden structure-- circular and tall, almost like a giant crown of wood, it sat there-- and noticed that the mists that hugged the base of this marsh, as it's slowly recovering since Sondur fell. Still thick marshland, but not quite as disgusting and corrupt as it once was. The mists that clouded this area were all gathering towards this wooden structure, and you begin to see shapes in the mist. Heads. Faces. Bodies. And you begin to realize that these were all spirits of the marsh being summoned to this structure. You all went, disguised as various small flying insects-- or beast creatures-- and managed to stealth into the entrance doors, into this mossy marsh-rotted wood structure, and on the inside saw the mist form an audience, within the inside of this Globe Theatre-like structure, upon which the central platform remained. A strange, crystalline spark began to form upon that stage, where a doorway opened and then, stepping from it, a half-dozen elvish-looking figures, though their skin is pale white-gray, their eyes white and iris-less, their limbs lithe and thinner and longer than elves you're used to seeing in your experience. And, while none of you could understand-- or most of you could understand the language except for Keyleth and Taryon, I think it was?
Marisha: No, we were the ones that could.
Matt: Yeah, you guys were the only ones who could understand it because you both knew Sylvan.
Marisha: Correct.
Matt: What you saw was a brilliant three-act performance for the undead spirits of the surrounding marsh. Unaware of the serious danger if any of you had been discovered. (laughs)
Liam: Do tell, Matt.
Laura: Yeah, I know. I want to know.
Matt: No. You don't know.
Liam: Aliens!
Matt: Go back. Go back. However, you watched the performance entirely, did not gather their attention. At which, the entity stepped back into a doorway, and it closed off and you absconded from the Theatre before the rest of the audience could shift its way out and become the mists of the Forests once again.
Liam: This is their most sacred ceremony or something?
Matt: You don't know.
Liam: I don't.
Matt: You only know what they told you.
Taliesin: You only have what I told you later, it's pretty much--
Matt: Yeah. So as you guys returned from this and described your experience to Percy, the only person who really had spent a large portion of his youth researching the Feywild, and having an interest in these Fey creatures and their societies--
Laura: He didn't want to go! Yeah, he had things to copy.
Taliesin: I had things to do, I wasn't entirely clear about what you were planning to do. My god!
Marisha: Sorry.
Taliesin: No, it's great! You didn't die, you weren't kidnapped, your soul wasn't taken, you weren't--
Laura: That could've happened?
Taliesin: Yes, you watched the--
Marisha: The Royal Troupe of the--
Taliesin: Unseelie Court.
Marisha: Unseelie Court.
Taliesin: For god's sakes. Yes, a lot could've happened. They have these little vignettes on occasion that they use to sort of-- it's like a nice little trap. They just like to grab people and use them for various things, no one really knows because no one ever comes back.
Liam: Who are 'they'? The 'Unseelie court'?
Taliesin: They're sort of the shadow court, I suppose. They would be the-- for everything that you saw in the Feywild, they are the thing that the Feywild is a little sketchy about and a little worried about.
Laura: Ooh.
Liam: Well, listen, man. If I can't have the arts in my life, I'd rather be dead.
Taliesin: I respect that. (laughter)
Taliesin: And I'm very impressed. You're going to have to draw everything. You're going to have to draw everything. It's very important.
Liam: They looked like Slendermen.
Taliesin: I don't know what that means.
Laura: Very tall and slender.
Sam: They kept singing about a Technicolor Dreamcoat. (laughter)
Taliesin: I have a book about that. (laughter)
Matt: All right. So. Your adventure to finally find the Theatre, complete. I believe that concludes your immediate ventures. Percival.
Taliesin: I had the least vacation-y of anybody's vacation.
Matt: Of course you did.
Taliesin: 'Cause I have technically been on vacation for many, many years. I finally took the mantle of responsibility for not necessarily-- I'm not ruling Whitestone, that's not how it works, but I did take on a lot of the civic responsibility.
Matt: Yeah, you guys converted into the Chamber of Whitestone.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: Which is less of a singular family ruling and more of a small series of offices held by Lords or Ladies.
Taliesin: I hired someone to help run the-- my workshop.
Sam: I was doing a lot of work. (laughter)
Sam: Mornings at the bakery-- (laughter)
Sam: -- afternoons at the workshop, and then an hour and a half every night enchanting it.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: And then we drink.
Sam: Yeah.
Laura: But didn't it feel good, Tary, to get your hands dirty?
Sam: It did. I got this thing on my finger, I was later told that that's what happens when you work with your hands. (laughter)
Sam: It's a blister! Yeah.
Travis: How awful.
Taliesin: So, with the help, I had time to start working on a few projects. I finally made a new pair of glasses. Well, I tried.
Matt: You tried.
Taliesin: To make a new pair of glasses.
Matt: You rolled a one. And then you rolled a two.
Taliesin: And then I rolled again and tried to make a new pair of glasses. And then I realized it's very, very hard to make a pair of glasses when you can't see what you're doing because you don't have a pair of glasses.
Sam: Warby Parker.
Taliesin: So then I actually called Tary and said, please fix these for me. He made very, very nice glasses. I think they have your name inscribed on them, they're really gaudy.
Sam: Rose gold is the best.
Taliesin: White gold. White gold. Please. (laughter)
Taliesin: It's got to match the outfit. I automated the system for making shot and powder for the castle. I created a royal guard that-- and have been training an elite group of soldiers specifically to guard the family and the house. They were the Whitestone Musketeers until Cassandra said that that was silly and so they were called the Riflemen.
Matt: Riflemen of Whitestone.
Taliesin: Yeah, the Riflemen of Whitestone. (whispers) Musketeers. (laughter)
Matt: "I'm sorry, Percy, but no."
Taliesin: No. I get vetoed a lot, these days. (laughter)
Taliesin: I began modernizing the city. I have a wonderful dream of turning Whitestone into a shining beacon on the hill of what the future of mankind could be. And the first order of business, one of two big projects that we've started to bring forth our reputation as this modern city, is we've been running steam pipes from the depths through the main streets so that the snow never needs to be uncovered, so that the streets are always clean, and a few of the major houses can be heated this way during the heavy winters.
Matt: It's a heavy endeavor, it's going to take a while to complete.
Taliesin: It's not completed yet.
Matt: It's begun work.
Taliesin: We're also trying to create some series of illuminations at least within the main castle in case the thing in the basement that we're still working on ever turns on us and suddenly we are un-magiced, which is a constant fear. I've upgraded, with Taryon's help, we've upgraded several of my inventions. I've had a proper sword of my family crest made. I finally got the glove more-or-less working. More working, honestly, but I'll get into that later. I've been desperately trying to get you to stop going out into the woods to stop searching for that bloody thing.
Laura: I've been a bit obsessed, I'm sorry.
Taliesin: That covers quite a bit of it, at this point.
Matt: Yeah. That's pretty much everything you've got here.
Travis: What'd you kill, in the year that you had off?
Sam: Time.
Taliesin: Time, and things in the woods, on occasion. We go hunting. And I've also been training men how to use their guns, so there's been a bit of that.
Travis: Boring.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Did you catch a whiff of Galdrick out in woods?
Laura: I've seen a wolf, out and about, but he seems to do his job well, and I'm not going to stop him.
Taliesin: Technically an honorary member of the Grey Hunt, I'd say.
Laura: Yes, quite.
Matt: All right. And Taryon.
Sam: Well... Taryon had a great year.
Matt: You're such a terrible person.
Sam: You've heard much of what he's done. Mainly just building and working and working and building. And in his spare time, he built and worked on things for himself. Chief among them, Doty! Doty 2.0, take this down.
Matt: "Tary."
Sam: Yes, see?
Travis: Oh he fucking talks!
Sam: A little bit. Doty, how handsome am I?
Matt: "Tary."
Sam: I heard "very". And Doty, what do you say when it's windy outside?
Matt: "Tary."
Sam: It's airy. Right? That's what I heard. Oh no, boo!
Matt: "Tary?"
Sam: Yeah, it is scary. He says a lot of things. It depends on the context, you have to sort of figure out what he's saying. But he can say that, he can say one word. It took a lot of money to do that, but it was worth it. He's also got a couple of upgrades. He's got a waterproof slot for the book inside of him so he can store my book.
Matt: The door itself is also a crest.
Sam: Yes, the crest of Vox Machina, right on his chest, emblazoned there. His arm works a little differently, his right arm, which we might see in some sort of competition at some point. And his left arm, thanks to Percival Fredrickstein von Mussel de something.
Taliesin: Bless you.
Sam: He's got a little hole right here in his hand, that--
Laura: That you... never mind. (laughter)
Travis: That was amazing!
Liam: Our hero!
Taliesin: You're gonna pay for that, oh my God, I can feel the radiation.
Travis: It can't be for anything else. Anything else won't compare. Just change it.
Laura: Just a little hole.
Travis: Itty-bitty little hole.
Liam: How wide is the hole?
Sam: It's got some girth.
Taliesin: Well-machined.
Sam: But it can fire a shot, a bullet shot. I've never used it before, but it can shoot something.
Taliesin: It can.
Matt: Once, and then takes a short rest to reload.
Sam: Yep. And I think that's the major improvements to Doty, other than the speaking and the other stuff. Let's see, what else did I do?
Liam: You told me one other thing. Did that get jettisoned?
Sam: Oh, I also bought him-- I bought a lot of stuff. I'm almost out of money, guys.
Travis: What?
Laura: But you're making some, with the bakery.
Sam: That is not what I would call money.
Taliesin: You are technically a civil servant as well, so you're making money there.
Sam: No, I'm talking about actual money that you can buy things with. I bought Doty a pair of boots.
Matt: Yep.
Sam: The Boots of--
Taliesin: Wow, that's a lot of cards!
Sam: Yeah, I bought a lot of stuff. The Boots of Elvenkind, so he's a little more stealthy when we go around.
Laura: Don't you have those, too?
Sam: I also tinkered with my armor, or did I have it tinkered on?
Matt: You don't know how to make armor, so you had the armor commissioned, using the remains of Vorugal's hide. No, sorry, you have Vorugal-- the remains of Umbrasyl's hide.
Sam: Yes, so I have breastplate armor that has black dragon scales embedded in it, right?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: And it gives me a little more protection against acid, and it also looks cool. A little darker flair. And so I could communicate with them, I built myself a little earring-- it's a little different from yours, it dangles and it's got a nice gem on the end, because if you're going to wear it, at least look good. And also, in my spare time at Vex's house, when she was asleep-- she's a snorer-- sometimes I would be awake and I would examine her broom a bit and decided to make myself one too. (gasping)
Laura: Sneaky sneak!
Travis: You made a broom?
Laura: You know we have a fucking flying carpet?
Sam: Now we have two brooms. We can leave those fuckers in the dust!
Laura: That's pretty fucking cool. (laughter)
Travis: You really have no money left.
Sam: I am out of money. I have a teeny bit left. But I also bought some other things.
Taliesin: He's now going to become Whitestone's FedEx though.
Liam: Are we all getting any prezzies?
Sam: Are you back? You were gone?
Matt: All right, is that the end of that?
Sam: And I wrote. A lot.
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Just a lot of writing, and I'm probably halfway through that book by now.
Matt: Awesome. All right. So as the months go by and you all have your individual adventures, as you converse and talk amongst yourselves, the date of Winter's Crest begins to creep up. Now, Winter's Crest is a day that's really only celebrated in Tal'Dorei proper-- occasionally by people in other places who migrated away from Tal'Dorei, but the event that it's based around, Eravon the Ice Lord, was specific to Tal'Dorei. It's not celebrated everywhere in the world. However, it is coming up, and you all decided to celebrate your Winter's Crest festival this year, not in Tal'Dorei. You all instead made your way towards the Bay of Gifts, in Marquet.
Marisha: Tropical vacation.
Matt: Now, how are you guys getting there? Are you taking a leisurely boat trip? Are you going via trees?
Taliesin: Well, we were leaving from Whitestone, right?
Laura: We were leaving from Whitestone because we'd all gathered there for--
Matt: Oh, that's right, before you even left there, you--
Taliesin: That's right, as you were saying, it is based on that festival, and of course Whitestone has its own paganistic rituals dating back many, many years.
Liam: I've read about them.
Taliesin: Yes, you have now.
Liam: And I will start telling you about it.
Taliesin: I've so many text files to send you, my word. So usually at this time, the winter solstice, especially when we have a new Master or Mistress of the Grey Hunt, there's usually a celebration or a ball, and they're not every single winter's festival, but it does happen, but since this was the first, we decided to have a fancy party. She was bestowed with her crest and otherwise and we all dressed up.
Marisha: Did she get a dope crown?
Taliesin: You don't get a crown, you get a cloak-y thing with a medallion piece.
Marisha: Mantle sisters!
Taliesin: You don't really have to wear it, it's just something you get to own. But I also had a piece of jewelry commissioned for everybody.
Sam: I've already got one.
Matt: Keyleth helped you with this one specifically.
Taliesin: This one specifically, because I had to go find our friend in the Fire Plane.
Matt: Senokir, yeah.
Marisha: That's right, that's right.
Matt: "Very happy to help you."
Marisha: And we inform him that we buried his wife's ashes.
Matt: "And I greatly appreciated you being so honorable."
Marisha: Yes, yes.
Matt: "Thank you."
Marisha: Okay, Percy, do your thing.
Matt: "What do you need from me?"
Taliesin: I have this design, and this requires some gemstones, and I have a limited amount of dragon scales from five dead dragons, and I was curious if you could make a hero's crest that is built around these five dragon scales, so that everyone who helped to slay these dragons will always have a token that proves that they were there and they were one of them. And then I also need one made without the dragon scales as well.
Matt: "Understood. Right away." (laughter)
Matt: "You may leave now."
Marisha: Do we come back in, like, two weeks?
Taliesin: He'll call.
Marisha: He'll call? Okay.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Marisha: Is this like a-- do we wait here?
Taliesin: Goodbye!
Matt: "Goodbye."
Liam: (AOL voice) Goodbye.
Matt: You receive word via imp, strangely enough. Which sets you off for a moment, there. But you are notified of their completion, and they're delivered, finished, by this imp.
Taliesin: They're beautiful, and at the ball, I present all of these to you, and each is just a bit individual. And they are crested in the gems and in the dragon scales to give this color wheel of the red, the white, the blue, the green.
Laura: That's really beautiful.
Taliesin: And there's one that doesn't have the dragon scales, but it's just got this flourish around it, and we give it to Taryon because these are meant to be built upon, as we will build upon ours. Your accomplishments will be built upon yours as well.
Sam: Thank you, Percy. That's very kind.
Travis: Is there a pin?
Liam: Yeah, where are they best affixed to wear our bling?
Taliesin: Anywhere you like.
Liam: Okay.
Travis: I don't wear a shirt, so.
Laura: Just right in your skin, Grog.
Liam: Nipple piercing.
Travis: Right in the nips?
Taliesin: All right. Or you could use it as your piece clasp. You could put it on your-- you could put it anywhere. You could put it on your gauntlet.
Marisha: I use it to affix my mantle.
Matt: There you go. Right in the center of the mantle. Right there.
Taliesin: They're just something so that, in the worst-case scenario, anyone will always know who we are, and we will know each other. It can't be replicated. There's no one else who's made anything like this. There's not enough material to make anything like this.
Laura: Ooh, I want to make mine my hairpiece.
Taliesin: And we've got to figure out how to start putting your accomplishments on yours soon.
Sam: Well, I hope to have an accomplishment to add to it.
Taliesin: You have several already. You defeated a leviathan.
Sam: Sure. I killed a marid, right?
Marisha: You helped me unify the world, globally.
Sam: I mean, go on.
Laura: You're a world-class enchanter.
Sam: Mm-hm, yeah, yeah.
Taliesin: Think of it much like your book.
Sam: Pike, what do you like about me?
Ashley: You are so great at baking.
Sam: My profiteroles are really good.
Travis: Profiteroles?
Ashley: What did we name the profiteroles again?
Sam: I don't think we had a name for them. Profite-roll for initiative?
Liam: Profiterolos!
Taliesin: Profiterolos!
Laura: Oh, that's profiterolos!
Liam: You're fun to fucking drink with.
Sam: Thank you.
Travis: Your money.
Sam: Well, thank you.
Ashley: Your hair is lovely.
Sam: It is, isn't it?
Laura: It's very shiny.
Ashley: You're kind. You're very giving.
Sam: All right, all right. Now I'm embarrassed. But thank you. Thank you. Doty, you got all that?
Matt: "Tary." (laughter)
Travis: Jesus. No! (laughter)
Taliesin: So we just have a wonderful evening where we eat too much, we drink too much, we dance and we all look fabulous.
Laura: Fabulous.
Travis: I'm only wearing the pointy helmet, Percy's ascot, and his glasses.
Matt: And that's it.
Laura: No pants?
Travis: I mean, I always have pants on.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Not always.
Liam: Also, I am not always wearing the Raven Queen's armor. I'm wearing some of Percival's loaner cast-of-Hamilton clothing right now. I, on the break, built a trapped box to slide under the bed so that I can let my skin breathe at night.
Laura: He doesn't smell as moldy after a year.
Liam: I smell lovely.
Marisha: You know, I've crafted him some oils with some herbs. He's good. I helped him manscape a bit, it's good.
Liam: Barely any hair on this body. (laughter)
Matt: Oh! All right, and as you guys-- the ball is complete, you've all gathered. Your hangovers have faded. You all begin your trek toward the Bay of Gifts.
Taliesin: Yes!
Marisha: Wait, are we sailing or are we bamfing?
Matt: That's up to you guys.
Taliesin: I'd like to sail. I need a vacation.
Travis: (sings) Sailing.
Travis: (sing) Takes me away, to where I've always---
Sam: (sing) Takes me away, to where I've always---
Matt: (sing) Takes me away, to where I've always---
Liam: A little nostalgia in that for you, yeah?
Ashley: Yeah.
Laura: That's right.
Ashley: Because I've sailed there before.
Marisha: And we didn't go sailing with Pike.
Taliesin: Teach us some sailing songs. It will be fun.
Ashley: I'll teach you the ropes. (laughter)
Matt: Bah-derr.
Liam: And show us all the best gifs.
Ashley: Okay. (laughter)
Ashley: I'll show you all the best jifs.
Liam: That's okay too. That's okay too.
Ashley: Okay, just kidding. I don't say that.
Matt: I don't know what those are. All right, so you make your way to Emon, then you charter a ship across the Ozmit Sea and make your way to the continent of Marquet. On the northeast base of the Aggrad Mountains of Marquet, which consume a sizable portion of the continent's north shore, there before you stands, as it comes across the horizon, a brilliant crescent-shaped bay of white sands, glittering clear turquoise-colored waters, and the grandiose port city of Shamal.
Laura: (sings) Shamal. (laughter)
Laura: Sorry.
Travis: Holy crap.
Taliesin: God damn it.
Ashley: Oh, man.
Matt: Hundreds of ships fill the bay, from small fishing vessels to massive cargo ships, bringing an ever-flowing mixture of cultures, goods, and characters from across Exandria to its sunny location. Now, while back home Winter's Crest brings seasonal rain and snow, here in the Bay of Gifts the sky is clear, the water is warm, and the sun is ever-shining throughout the day. The streets of the city are draped in white and gold silks, affixed and framing crossways and street corners between torch posts and buildings. The distant sound of waves and seagulls cawing seems to envelop the city at all hours, occasionally stemmed by the sounds of localized musicians. So as you arrived here about midday or so, you take in the nice salty air into your lungs. You have your belongings, your sacks at your side, the city is bustling. What do you want to do with your vacation?
Laura: Oh. What do we do with a vacation?
Travis: Straight to the house of lady fav-- (laughter)
Taliesin: I don't think I've ever done this before. I'm not entirely sure.
Laura: I think we're supposed to just hang out and lay down in a hut and hang out on the beach.
Sam: We need a place to stay. Right?
Laura: Well, yes.
Sam: Preferably a fancy location.
Liam: As close to the beach as possible.
Taliesin: Oh my God, you've done this before, haven't you?
Sam: We used to summer in warmer climes. That's right. And--
Taliesin: We've never needed you more. (laughter)
Sam: Well, we should get some cabanas. (gasping)
Laura: Yes!
Taliesin: I don't know what that is!
Sam: And some people to wait on us. And we should-- Preferably near water. Swimmable water. And we just relax and tan, and sip mojitos. (laughs) (laughter)
Marisha: Do you have, like, a racial advantage to find a place like this?
Sam: (laughs) Vacations are my favored terrain. (laughter)
Marisha: Teach us your upper-white-male ways!
Taliesin: The blood is blue. (laughter)
Sam: I will certainly be of help. I'm afraid I can't pay for us this vacation.
Taliesin: No-no-no-no-no-no-no.
Laura: This is Vox Machina's vacation.
Sam: All right.
Taliesin: This is a group vacation. This is what this is now.
Sam: Well, let's find a resort of some sort. Or a relaxing spa! Or a---
Travis: Some sandals.
Sam: (laughs) Yeah, sure.
Matt: (laughs) All right. So who's helming this journey here? This search for--
Laura: I'll helm.
Matt: All right, make an investigation check.
Laura: Okay.
Sam: I will help her.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right. If you're helping her, that's advantage for her on it, then.
Laura: Oh, ah!
Liam: Oh my gosh!
Laura: Okay, well-- It doesn't matter, I rolled it.
Taliesin: The one that got away.
Laura: (hums) 17.
Matt: 17. Okay. Roughly 20 or so gold later, you find the party affixed with the finest of Marquesian sandals. (laughs) (laughter)
Matt: And come upon a place that was referred to you as Dalen's closet. D-A-L-E-N's Closet. Which doesn't sound majestic, but when you were eventually led to where it resides-- the best way I can describe it? It's a field of beautiful hammocks affixed to various tropical trees and structures that are built out of driftwood.
Marisha: Oh my God.
Matt: Right next to a brilliant bright white sandstone structure that appears to be the actual resort, if you will. It's a wide tavern, single-story. But well-staffed, and not terribly busy. But it seems to be very nice, and akin to some of the best places you've been to in your previous excursions on vacation.
Sam: All right!
Matt: So as you arrive there, you are met with a male, dark-skinned, somewhat balding Marquesian halfling at the front desk who smiles as you approach. He puts out his hands. "Welcome, friends! You are here for a-- I imagine to stay within The Closet?"
Laura: Yes.
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: "Ah, I am Guath, and this is for all of you? I will have to charge for your friend, I am sorry."
Sam: Oh, well, he's not really a person, but--
Matt: "You're lucky I'm not charging twice! He's a very big guy. That goes for that one as well."
Sam: He doesn't eat. So--
Matt: "Then he won't order food! But he's going to sleep somewhere, yes?"
Laura: He doesn't sleep.
Taliesin: He doesn't sleep.
Sam: He doesn't sleep.
Matt: "Well then, is he okay with staying out on the beach?"
Sam: Doty? Are you okay with staying on the beach?
Matt: "Tary?"
Sam: He said very. (laughter)
Matt: "Okay, very well. So that would be ba-da-da-- seven and a half? Seven, we'll go with seven. How long do you plan to stay?"
Liam: A couple of weeks?
Laura: A couple of weeks, a week? Something like that.
Sam: Ten days? Ten days?
Laura: Ten days is really good.
Matt: "Ten days?"
Sam: We'll get bored after eight or nine.
Marisha: Yeah, we might hop around.
Liam: We should be so lucky.
Laura: I know what he's about to do to me right now. I know what Matt's going to do.
Matt: "Let me see here." And he brings up this small abacus and starts doing math really quickly on the side you see. "Nine days, you said?"
Laura: Ten days.
Matt: "Ten days, all right. We'll put that at an even-- with discount for friendships, 1500 gold for the entire stay."
Laura: Oh! Well, seems-- and food is included, I'm assuming.
Matt: (laughs) "Oh, no. I'm sorry."
Laura: Where would we go eat?
Matt: "Well, we have a restaurant within as well, and there are plenty of places to eat around the way. We are happy to bring it to your quarters, but there is a surcharge for it, of course."
Liam: Are you going to do the thing?
Laura: Do what thing, darling?
Liam: Your thing.
Ashley: Do you have any specials?
Liam: The thing you do. (laughter)
Marisha: AAA discounts? (laughter)
Taliesin: Rotary club.
Ashley: AAA discounts, tenth night free situation?
Laura: Friends of J'mon Sa Ord.
Matt: "Uh. We do not run discounts here, unfortunately. We are a very premier establishment here in the Bay of Gifts."
Laura: Of course.
Matt: "So do you wish to stay or not?"
Laura: Well, 1500 gold it is.
Travis: We wish to stay.
Marisha: That's fair.
Taliesin: I think we wish to stay. I think--
Marisha: We never spend money on ourselves.
Sam: Yeah, we never treat ourselves.
Liam: Yeah. Ultimately our time is worth far more than our money, so-- let's just go with that.
Taliesin: That's very fair.
Matt: "All right! Fantastic!" So you pay off the 1500. Mark that off on the party gold. You are given some keys--
Ashley: How about some free drinks?
Matt: (laughs) Make a persuasion check. (laughter)
Taliesin: Wow!
Travis: Getting after it! Wasting no time.
Matt: This is training for your vacation next week.
Ashley: I used to come here on a ship and we used to bring you guys a lot of supplies, so, you know. (gasping)
Taliesin: Natural number.
Travis: Wow.
Ashley: 31.
All: Ooh!
Matt: What is your persuasion?
Ashley: It's 12.
Sam: It is?
Laura: Oh shit.
Sam: Pike!
Travis: Why have we not had fucking Pike do things?
Sam: No shit!
Laura: Oh my gosh!
Ashley: Maybe, how about-- If we don't get free food, what about--
Matt: As you're telling him this he goes, "Well, I--" That's right, because you trained in persuasion as part of the skills feat. That's right.
Liam: All right, all right! (laughs)
Matt: So your charisma is-- Sorry, just making sure on the math on this one. Don't want to get lost. What's your charisma?
Ashley: Two. 14.
Matt: 14. Plus two. Plus-- So it would be plus eight, unless you had something else to add under persuasion. Regardless, you rolled really high. We'll go over the math later.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: "I don't recognize you, but we've had many travelers and you seem--" He looks over the group a bit, especially the large one. "Free drinks. Why not? I'd be happy to give you this."
Laura: All right, nice, Pike!
Matt: He reaches behind the counter and brings out a couple of these small wooden coins.
Ashley: Tokens!
Matt: He passes them out "All right, that is five, six-- He doesn't drink, you said. So that is just seven. There you go."
Ashley: Thanks!
Sam: We said he didn't eat. He drinks. (laughter)
Matt: "So seven for all of you! Enjoy your stay! If you have any questions, requirements, issues, or anything, anything at all, you let me know. We can provide. Okay!" He gives you your keys, leads you to you guys'-- The rooms are clustered in fours, like a little square. They are all adjacent next to each other in groups of four, so there is two sections you guys are given, in square formation with small pathways, but all the walkways, all the alleys between these all just lead right out onto the beach. There are no solid walls on any of the hallways here, it's just the rooms that are closed off. Everything just goes-- you just step off into the sand.
Laura: This is amazing. I'm already, I'm in love with this place.
Liam: We don't need to go anywhere. This is it.
Matt: All right, so. Anything you guys wish to accomplish specifically while you're here?
Laura: No, just get drunk and hang out on the beach.
Liam: Yeah, I'm already peeling off my shirt.
Laura: Yeah! Roll for fucking putting on swimsuits!
Matt: (laughs) That's great!
Sam: I have a gift to give to Vax! I have a gift to give.
Liam: Oh yeah?
Sam: 'Cause we're in the Bay of Gifts.
Liam: I've got my shirt up around my arms. What's up, buddy? (laughter)
Sam: You know, we haven't talked much over this year since I've been helping your fucking sister.
Liam: Well, my sister has locked you up, it's true.
Sam: But, you know, I've talked to her a lot about how you have this ongoing sort of teasing war with Grog.
Liam: Oh yeah?
Sam: And I have acquired something for you to use in this battle.
Liam: Do tell, motherfucker.
Taliesin: (gasps) No!
Sam: Use it when the time is right.
Taliesin: No! No, you are a sadistic bastard!
Liam: Oh. My. Fucking. God! (laughter)
Liam: Oh my fucking God! I pull him into the tightest hug, and I give him a kiss on his forehead.
Sam: Oh, oh, oh! No! Okay.
Liam: You beautiful fuck! Slap! Let's go get in the fucking water! And I run off towards the beach.
Taliesin: That is the darkest thing I've ever seen. That is amazing.
Matt: (laughter) I think I know what it is. All right, so as you guys shed your armor, shed your weapons, put on your beach-faring clothing, you all one-after-one begin to charge your way down to the white beach sands of the Bay of Gifts just outside of the city itself.
Travis: Are there any pool aerobics? (laughter)
Matt: (laughs) No, but you're welcome to start one.
Travis: No, I'll join the rest.
Laura: Grog! Grog! Lift me like Dirty Dancing! (laughter)
Sam: (sings) Ahh!
Matt: Do you wait until she gets to the water before you do that?
Travis: Nope! (laughter)
Matt: You arc a good 15 feet before you go face-down in the sand.
Laura: Oh shit! You're supposed to hold on, Grog. Never mind.
Travis: Oh, you said lift. I did it. (laughter)
Marisha: Yeah, Keyleth runs out and goes, who wants to go scuba-diving?
Ashley: Ooh!
Marisha: 'Cause I can Water Breathe us, and we can go look at the coral reefs!
Laura: Yay! Let's do it!
Liam: Let's do it! Let's do it!
Marisha: Okay!
Matt: All right.
Marisha: We do that.
Matt: All right. So. (laughter)
Marisha: We do that at some point, throughout the week.
Matt: Through the elements of-- which by the way, we're all discovering here now, all the various relaxation elements of magic in D&D. (laughter)
Matt: Which they don't go into in the Player's Handbook as often.
Liam: Oh yeah.
Matt: (laughs) You guys manage to explore the majority of-- over this journey, and multiple trips-- explore a lot of the underwater portion of the Bay of Gifts, which includes a number of wrecked ships, that have just been storms, this is a very, very prominent bay.
Marisha: It's like the Bermuda Triangle!
Matt: You do run into other individuals that are actually either scavengers or pearl-divers or people that deal with gathering kelp and various other forms of plant life off the ground for food or other purposes. It's a very thriving ecosystem here. The people that live within this bay utilize everything in the vicinity. You see that work here, it's quite fascinating, and you see all walks of life. You all are pale as fuck by comparison to the locals here, who live in the sun most of their life.
Travis: Well, me especially.
Matt: But everyone there is friendly. You're little white-ass beacons underwater.
Laura: Do we see any mermaids?
Matt: There are no mermaids in this bay that you find. Sorry.
Laura: It's okay.
Taliesin: Next vacation.
Marisha: I turn to Pike and Vex and go, hey! Hey! Underwater tea party!
Travis: Nope. Not doing that shit. Not doing that. (laughter)
Ashley: Are you going to join?
Sam: I'm still trying to pressurize. (laughter)
Laura: I want to find pearls!
Taliesin: I'll go diving for pearls! Oh, yes!
Matt: All right. Each of you who wants to go pearl-diving, make an investigation check.
Ashley: I want to.
Liam: I want to go!
Marisha: Can I look for shark's teeth? That's fun! Can I do a nature check?
Travis: I'm building a sand castle while they're doing that.
Laura: Investigation?
Sam: I'll help you with that sand castle.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: 26!
Laura: Oh, that's good!
Taliesin: 21!
Ashley: I got a five. I definitely didn't find a pearl.
Marisha: 17.
Taliesin: 21.
Laura: 22.
Matt: You have no luck under the water, but you do find a couple of shark teeth-- at least they look like shark teeth-- along the sands of the beach that have washed up on the shore.
Marisha: Cool.
Liam: 26. 26.
Matt: You don't, what did you roll again?
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: 21, okay. You do manage to find one pearl, it's small but it's pretty. You manage to find a pretty decent pearl. You're not entirely certain-- make an intelligence check.
Liam: All right, I'm okay at that. Not today, though.
Laura: Are you feeling Lucky?
Liam: I'm not burning Luck on this.
Matt: You've burned it on lesser.
Laura: I know, right?
Liam: I'm not burning it on this. 13.
Matt: 13, okay. You gather the pearl you gathered is worth 150 gold.
Liam: Do you want this? I don't. You can have it.
Matt: There you go.
Laura: I rolled 22, as well.
Matt: You and Percival both find similar pearls. Imperfect, maybe worth ten to 15 gold.
Laura: I don't want to sell it. I just want to have it. It's pink.
Taliesin: I think I know how to pierce them. Lovely.
Matt: And you rolled a five?
Ashley: I rolled a five. I found a boob.
Matt: You found a sea cucumber.
Ashley: Oh.
Taliesin: It's the sea hairs that squirt the ink?
Matt: Not that type. It doesn't seem to have any sort of defense mechanism. It sits there sadly in her grasp.
Liam: By the way, I should probably toss out, because we probably haven't all been half-naked together-- you know this, some of you have, but not all of us together-- I still have this big mark in the middle of my chest. This black, veiny thing.
Matt: It's not like a pulsing tumor, or anything. It's a dark spot that looks like a bruise that never quite went away.
Liam: FYI.
Marisha: Tattoo's looking good, though.
Travis: Tary, do you know what I hear they do on beaches? You bury someone up to their head in sand.
Sam: Do you want me to bury you?
Travis: No, I thought we could bury you. Hold on. And I start doggy digging between my feet. I go into a Rage.
Taliesin: You could walk away right now. He'll never know.
Travis: Big hole right there.
Matt: What you don't notice is another traveling couple that's lying on the beach about 15 to 20 feet away are now completely buried in sand with their drinks.
Travis: I end my Rage. Get in.
Sam: All right, sure. We're friends.
Travis: Yeah, totally friends.
Sam: All right. I'll step into the gigantic hole.
Matt: You step in. Doty watches you get inside, not really having an opinion on this.
Sam: Sure.
Travis: Why didn't you pay for our rooms with all your money?
Sam: I've spent a lot of money.
Travis: How much?
Sam: A lot.
Travis: How much do you have left?
Sam: Not a lot.
Travis: I start filling up the hole. (laughter)
Travis: I stop. Just so his arms are out, like that.
Sam: Oh, this is fun. I should have taken my armor off first. It's chafing me.
Matt: All of you guys are beach-dressed except for Tary!
Sam: I thought this was a formal trip.
Matt: Sand's gotten all in the metal joints and the inside of the armor.
Marisha: You know salt water is bad for the armor, right?
Ashley: You should go change.
Marisha: You should.
Sam: Doty, lift me up, please.
Matt: "Taryon." Puts you down.
Liam: He just evolved.
Laura: Yeah, I know. I feel like he said Taryon.
Matt: Tary. It should have been Tary. Good catch.
Sam: Undress me.
Matt: He pulls off the breastplate, starts taking off the armor pieces. You are now currently down to your skivvies.
Sam: Great.
Travis: Do you want to build a castle?
Sam: Let's build the best castle ever.
Travis: Fucking A, man. Do you know how to do that?
Sam: Do I know how to do that?
Matt: Are you trained in sand castle building?
Sam: I am a tinkerer.
Matt: Yeah, and some of those tools may come in handy. You know what I'm going to do on this?
Sam: Sand castle rolls.
Matt: Yeah, we're making rolls for sand castles.
Travis: No shit? (laughter)
Matt: For this, we'll have a skill test for you, because you are a brute strength individual. This is going to be a dexterity check.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And you're following his plan.
Sam: I'm going to go to my history knowledge and try to base it on one of the famous castles from my youth, of my land.
Matt: All right, from the Dwendalian Empire.
Sam: From the Truscan Empire.
Matt: Truscan area. I misspoke in an earlier episode. The Dwendalian Empire of King Bertrand Dwendal.
Liam: Everybody looks over and Castle Ravenloft is towering above the beach.
Matt: Exactly, yeah. So, make your dexterity check.
Travis: Four!
Matt: Taryon, go ahead and make your history check.
Sam: 16.
Matt: Great. You get the structure built. You map out the right scale structure of this castle, and you get about three-quarters of the way through before Grog (shifting sand).
Travis: What did you do?
Sam: (sighs) You know, maybe we should have-- you know, let's just try one more time.
Travis: Okay. What did we do wrong the first time?
Sam: Just be very careful, Grog. Because you were backing up and I think you knocked into it a little bit.
Travis: You putting this on me?
Sam: It was probably Doty.
Travis: Probably. Doty, go walk over there.
Matt: "Tary." (impact sounds)
Travis: Oh, he listens to me now?
Matt: He walks over about ten feet.
Sam: All right, let's do one more try.
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: And really put some artistry into this. We want a moat, we want defensive towers. I'm going to put a little alchemic fire in the middle of it, so if anyone gets through the gates, they explode.
Travis: Wow. Dungeons?
Sam: Of course.
Travis: With alligators in the moat?
Sam: Yes.
Travis: Okay.
Sam: Let's do it.
Matt: All right, now make an intelligence check to lay out the design.
Sam: Just straight intelligence?
Matt: Just straight intelligence.
Sam: 13.
Matt: That's still good. It's not a very hard DC. You're structuring a sandcastle. (laughter)
Travis: Come on, Gil. Five.
Laura: Oh no!
Marisha: You're with the worst sandcastle partner.
Matt: This one's bigger. This one's coming along great. You're glad the first one fell over because now this is going to be much better.
Sam: Yes, yeah, this is coming along great.
Matt: (sliding sand)
Sam: God fucking-- Grog! You stepped-- I mean, the central structure held the whole thing! I'm getting a sunburn because we've been here for so--
Travis: I think that was my fault. (laughter)
Sam: (sighs) You know what? Just bury me again. Just do that. Bury me again.
Liam: While that is happening, may I hide Taryon's clothing?
Sam: Aren't you skin-diving?
Liam: Time is loosey-goosey. Aren't we playing Dungeons and Dragons here? It's up to him.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: 23.
Matt: You see the opportunity.
Liam: I'm getting him.
Matt: Make a sleight-of-hand check.
Liam: Sleight-of-hand check? Natural 20!
Matt: A gentle pass by, choosing the right moment in which Grog is involved in rage-burying and Taryon has completely given up on his activities, you manage to scoot through the sand, and moving your hand behind you to hide the trail, you drag his armor off back towards the resort.
Liam: Yoink.
Matt: All righty. As you've been buried now, sufficiently--
Travis: All the way up to the head this time.
Matt: Up to the neck. You feel the sunburn is starting to kick in a bit.
Sam: (sighs) I need that helmet, Doty! My helm, please.
Travis: The giant reflective piece of metal?
Sam: Yeah.
Travis: You're going to cook in that thing.
Matt: "Tary."
Sam: What do you mean, "Tary?" (laughter)
Sam: Where did it go?
Matt: "Tary."
Sam: Don't tell me "Tary!" Your number one job is to take care of me, and your number two job is to take care of my belongings! That stuff is worth more than you!
Matt: "Tary."
Sam: All right, just get me out of the hole.
Matt: (impact noise)
Laura: By your head.
Sam: Ow!
Travis: I hand him a seashell. I'm sorry.
Sam: Let's go find my armor. I'm going to go look around for it.
Matt: Make a survival check, because you're now tracking.
Sam: Survival? Ten.
Matt: Ten.
Sam: Oh, no. That's a four, so that's three. I'm a negative one for survival. I thought it was 11.
Matt: You spend the next hour asking from person to person on these white sands.
Sam: Excuse me, pardon me. Sorry to interrupt your vacation. Have you seen a lot of armor and a big golden helmet? No? Okay.
Taliesin: Does everybody speak Common?
Matt: A lot of people do. This bay, in particular, because this bay is a bastion of trade.
Sam: They're all German tourists.
Matt: Exactly, yeah. It's a Swiss drop area. It's great. But while everyone here, for the most part, speaks Marquesian, a majority speaks some level of Common.
Taliesin: I was just curious if he was walking up to people and they were staring, going "oh no", and walking on.
Matt: There were probably a couple, but they probably understood him, they just didn't respond. Eventually, you find your way to the resort. You're tired and you're sunburned and you're exhausted. You walk out and see him in this state.
Liam: And by the way, I went to the front desk and I asked which room Mr. de Rolo was staying in, because I wanted to put some of his belongings there, and I hid the armor in Percy and Vex's room.
Taliesin: You'd better have been able to actually convince them.
Matt: Which is what I'm about to get to. Make a deception check.
Liam: Sure. Here's where the Luck is. Yeah. Persuasion, you say?
Matt: Deception.
Liam: Deception. That's a 20.
Matt: 20. Okay, it takes a little bit of convincing, but eventually he sends one of the employees to go along with you. They let you into the room.
Liam: And now I'm coming back to the beach.
Matt: Okay, so as you guys come in at the close of the day-- you've been here for a few days as part of your excursion here-- you all come in as you've had enough time in the sun and you probably need to get out for a little bit.
Liam: Tary, come here.
Sam: Yes?
Liam: While you were messing about with Grog, Percy grabbed your shit and hid it.
Sam: Percival?
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: My dear friend?
Liam: He was chortling the whole time.
Sam: I don't believe that he would do such a thing.
Liam: All right. I walk away.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Oh god.
Sam: Let's go to Percy's room. I'm going to go knock on his door.
Matt: Are you in your room, currently?
Taliesin: Oh god, no.
Matt: No answer.
Sam: I try the door.
Matt: It's locked.
Sam: Chime of Opening. (laughter)
Sam: Oh, I can open any fucking door.
Taliesin: Yes!
Travis: Where have you been all our campaign?
Marisha: It took us a year.
Liam: You're like a Swiss army knife of fixing all our problems and trolling.
Laura: We have the same room.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: Opens up. Quick glance inside, and there's sand scattered all across the ground, and in the far end, right next to the bed, haphazardly jammed underneath, you see your armor and belongings. (laughter)
Sam: We were science bros! How could he? Doty, this calls for revenge. What of his belongings are there?
Matt: Of yours?
Sam: Of his.
Matt: Of Percival's. That would be-- because you didn't bring everything.
Taliesin: My stuff and Vex's stuff.
Matt: Yeah, so pretty much all of Percival and Vex's belongings are within the room.
Taliesin: Here, take a look. Guns, swords, boots.
Sam: What can we do, Doty? What can we do?
Matt: "Tary."
Sam: Good idea, but a little bit too cruel. (laughter)
Liam: "Kill them all, you say?"
Travis: "But they need their skin to live!"
Sam: All right. I'll go to my cloak and tear off the Patch of Two Mastiffs.
Taliesin: Oh no.
Sam: They're two big dogs, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Yeah, all right. And I'll throw some kibble all over the place and be like, go on, just chew everything up and make a mess and pee wherever you want.
Matt: All right, as you pull the patch and throw it in the room, it glows a bright orange and then flashes and burns into two small coal-like embers that when they slam into the ground, crack and open, and from those two embers you see two full-grown mastiffs. (barking and snorting)
Sam: There's food in there. Eat it all. Scratch through everything you want.
Matt: They both start eating. They go nuts on the place.
Sam: And use this as your latrine as well.
Matt: One of them goes, (sniffs) and just pisses on one of the sacks. You're not quite sure which one it is.
Sam: Good doggy. All right. You're free now. Go away. I don't know.
Matt: Do you leave them in the room?
Sam: Yeah, just stay here, go, whatever you want. I don't know. I feel weird. I don't need a pet right now.
Matt: You leave and close the door behind you? Okay. All right, so you guys meet up again. You get more drinks, you begin to wander the city. Is there anything else you want to do while you're out and about for the afternoon?
Ashley: I want to get my hair braided with beads on the end! (cheering)
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: All righty.
Ashley: And Grog.
Laura: Just the beard?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: All right. You guys ask around about a half an hour or so, and you're led to one location that is windowless and has an open archway door with some fine purple and red silks blocking the entry. As you walk inside, there's one woman who's sitting there, in the process of eating a small bowl of fruit. You see she is a dark-skinned Marquesian, but elf lineage. She has elven features. Her hair, which is this dirty brown, is braided in rows that go down past her waist and have a series of multi-colored, looks almost like gems and rings and other cool pieces of jewelry that are woven into it. As she's looking at this small book in her lap and eating the fruit, she turns around. "Oh, I'm sorry. Hello."
Ashley: Hi. Could we get our hair-- yours looks amazing. Could we get some hair braids? Tight and then going down, with some gems and sparkles in it? And same here, on his beard?
Matt: "Oh, the beard. I can do that."
Ashley: Yeah?
Matt: "Yes, of course." Closes her book and sets it down. "Come, sit."
Laura: Some razor blades up in them.
Matt: She calls out in Marquesian for a moment, and a younger woman, probably about 15 or so, comes out. Human, dark-skinned, as well. Both begin to start working on your hair and your beard. Asking about where you're from. It becomes a conversational piece because you're there for a good hour and a half or so to go through all of your hair and get it done, but nevertheless, you now have a fantastic series of braids in your hair.
Travis: She pulled really hard.
Ashley: It looks really good. Do you want to add any jewels in it?
Travis: Jewels?
Ashley: Earrings and stuff like how she has?
Travis: I just want the beads. Little beads and little braids. No jewels. What about you?
Ashley: I want all of it.
Travis: Everything?
Ashley: Just all of it.
Matt: "All of it?"
Ashley: What does all of it cost?
Matt: "If you want more than what I have in mine--"
Ashley: Well, no. Let's not get carried away.
Travis: Do you want extensions?
Ashley: My hair is already so long.
Travis: It is. Do you want other colored hair in there, too?
Ashley: Let's put blue in there.
Matt: "Oh, you wish to color?"
Ashley: Oh, well--
Matt: "No, it's okay."
Travis: Yeah, why not? Fuck it!
Matt: She talks to her assistant, and the young girl runs off for a second with a smile. Comes back, and there is what looks to be some sort of a fruit. Looks like a blue pomegranate that's partially crushed. She takes it and with a mortar and pestle setup begins mashing it and goes, "We can do blue."
Ashley: Yeah!
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: So cool!
Matt: The whole endeavor between the two of you guys is not inexpensive-- few things are in the Bay of Gifts. It's designed specifically to survive and thrive on the trade here. Both of you guys, it costs about 120 gold.
Marisha: Oh shit.
Travis: Not a problem.
Ashley: So how does that break down? For my hair versus his?
Matt: "Oh, for the two? For any sort of masculine hair endeavors, which is not our specialty-- Well, the beads themselves are made from finely blown glass and they're individually colored, and those are made specifically by an artisan who is about three blocks up that way, so those are brought here, and those are purchased on our end, as well. You are paying straight cost of the beads. Time and training, of course, on our end, and we do the finest work you'll find all across Marquet."
Ashley: Well, you know what? I am a very big supporter of small businesses, so support small business, and I will give you 120 gold.
Matt: "The 20 is mainly for him. The 100 was to give you the dye coloring--"
Laura: Oh, it's for both of you guys? Oh, I thought it was 120 each!
Liam: That's all right.
Laura: That's not bad. I mean, that's a lot.
Matt: It's still a lot. But since you've gotten here, you get the sense that it's-- by nature, everything here costs a little more. A lot of it's imported and a lot of it is designed for people that are willing to pay for foreign goods.
Ashley: Great.
Travis: Are we supposed to tip?
Laura: No, she owns the business so you don't have to do as much.
Travis: Are you there?
Ashley: Just 120.
Matt: Very well. So how much blue did you want to get in your hair?
Ashley: Say again?
Matt: How much blue did you want to get in your hair?
Ashley: Just some strips, you know. Just some strips on the white so it pops out.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: Just like--
Matt: All right.
Ashley: You know, dealer's choice. Just get creative and do what you want.
Matt: All right. Okay. So upon completion-- It's very cool. It's pretty close to what you were hoping and expecting. You end up with three streaks: one central one that goes from the center, and then two that go from the sides and back that way.
Laura: That's way different than I expected.
Ashley: It's awesome.
Matt: And then all the tips go to blue, so it's almost like you have these two blocks of white and then eventually it all goes blue towards the edge.
Ashley: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: Imagine what that'll look like when your hair is down, too, because it'll be like blue all over the top and all mixed in everywhere.
Ashley: Ooh, that's pretty cool.
Travis: Hell yeah.
Matt: So yeah. Anything else you want to accomplish, or call it an evening?
Laura: I think just eat a nice dinner and then head back to the rooms and get ready to wake up in the morning and do all the same shit again.
Marisha: Definitely some magically frozen daiquiris.
Matt: You guys all find your way back with some drinks. The sun has set now, the cold night has come in through the bay, but it's still warm. It's cold by the bay standards, but you guys come from the northern ends, in Tal'Dorei proper it's still a pretty warm night. You hear the waves crashing as you enter the establishment. You all head back to your rooms to get in more evening attire. Percival and Vex-- how long do the hounds last for?
Sam: Let me look.
Taliesin: That's a good question.
Sam: It just says Two Mastiffs. I think they just are. (laughter)
Sam: It's not like a spell or anything, they are two dogs that live now.
Matt: I am so excited. I am so excited.
Travis: They don't live for much longer.
Matt: Okay. So, as soon as you approach, you guys hear, through the door on the other side, this low growl. This (growls).
Taliesin: Vex?
Laura: What is that?
Taliesin: I don't--
Laura: I open the door. Just fucking on guard.
Matt: Okay. You come inside to notice the entire interior of the room has been sundered. Pillows and cloth torn and pulled everywhere. The room smells immediately of heaping piles of dog shit and urine. The bed is scattered and torn open. The curtains have been pulled down, and there, in the center of the room, are two massive mastiffs, mating. (laughter)
Laura: What the fuck!
Taliesin: I grab the door and shut it.
Laura: Who did this?
Taliesin: It was either Grog or your brother. Those are really the only two people who could be possibly responsible--
Laura: Grog! And I take off running to his room.
Matt: Okay. (laughs)
Taliesin: I'm not missing this. I am following.
Matt: Okay. Your door is open, Grog. You're just there sitting down for a second just grabbing your jug. Getting a quick nip before your next nip.
Travis: Yeah, mini-fridge.
Matt: And Vex just storms in, heaving mad.
Travis: Hey. Oh. Hi.
Laura: Did you have anything to do with this? (laughter)
Travis: I feel like I should ask what, but the answer's probably yes?
Laura: The fucking dogs. Grog! I grab him by his beaded beard and drag him back to the room.
Travis: Ah! It's really tight! (yelps)
Matt: Percival, as you catch up-- She comes around the corner just dragging Grog by the beard behind her.
Taliesin: Oh god, she's going to kill you.
Travis: (groans) What in the-- what-- (groans)
Laura: I open the door and throw him in. Did you do this?
Travis: (sniffs) Ugh. What the fuck?
Matt: The dogs have stopped mating at this point and one of them comes over and goes (sniffs, chomp) and just bites into your neck. It does nothing, it just rests there.
Travis: Is this your fucking dog?
Laura: Is this your fucking dog?
Travis: No! Where am I going to get dogs from?
Laura: (huffs) True. (laughter)
Travis: Although I don't think this shit and piss is mine.
Laura: (laughs) That's good.
Travis: Yep.
Laura: What does our room look like? What does our stuff look like? Is it ruined?
Matt: Your stuff isn't--
Liam: Not the magical items.
Taliesin: The stuff in the closet is probably--
Matt: Yeah. You didn't just leave your stuff on the floor, there. You had things put away inside the cabinets and stuff. And the things that were in the cabinets were fine. So most of your general clothing is all right. It's more like your sacks, anything that was just loose. Your boots. All just smell of dog piss.
Laura: How did they even get in? I take off to the front desk. (laughter)
Sam: Oh, shit.
Travis: Can I let the mastiffs have a couple of licks from the alchemy jug full of beer that I was drinking out of?
Matt: They do have a lick. Big old mastiff tongues.
Taliesin: I'm going to go find Vax.
Matt: Okay. As you rush off to the front counter, you can see Guath, the Marquesian, is still there. He's in the process of going through the books, making sure he's keeping everything tidy and he sees you approach. "Ah, hello! Is there anything of--"
Laura: Who-- Hi.
Matt: "Hello."
Laura: Who was in our room? Did you send anyone to our room?
Matt: "Uh. Yes. Yes, there was--"
Laura: Who was it?
Matt: "The other who looks like you. He came by and said that he was supposed to put the-- We had to send--" (laughter)
Sam: Yes!
Matt: "He said he had to put things in the room for you. I am so sorry. I am so sorry. If this is a problem, we can call the-- You wish us to call the guards over here?"
Laura: (scoffs) How? Why? Vax! And I take off running. Vax! Where are you? Where are you?
Liam: I'm in my room.
Laura: Ooh!
Taliesin: I have just turned the corner towards Vax's room. I'm probably just now in eyesight.
Laura: I sprint and I--
Marisha: I just showered, you guys, now's not a good time. I'm just--
Laura: Trinket, off with me, we're ready to fucking fight. He's out of my necklace and we're taking off towards Vax's room.
Liam: Did you say you're coming to the room?
Laura: You are dead.
Taliesin: Can I hear this?
Liam: I mean, practically.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: I can too.
Travis: We're all making our way over to Vax's room.
Liam: Kiki, might want to go to into the bathroom. I think that my sister is coming. Whoa!
Laura: Keyleth.
Marisha: Hi, Vex.
Laura: Put some clothes on.
Liam: I guess I will as well.
Marisha: I feel like we're in trouble.
Laura: Not you.
Liam: Yoink. What?
Laura: What the fuck did you do? Why the fuck would you do that in our room?
Liam: What did I do in your room?
Laura: Destroyed it.
Liam: Why would I destroy your room on the first day of our vacation?
Laura: Did you-- Did he-- Did you-- Why would you?
Liam: I wouldn't. What are you talking about?
Laura: The dogs. Shit and piss everywhere. I know you were in our room.
Liam: Dogs?
Marisha: There are dogs? (gasps) What kind of dogs are they?
Taliesin: Why don't you come with me and I'm going to go show you while they talk.
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: Are you pranking me? What are you talking about?
Laura: Ooh. I just yank your hair as hard as I can.
Liam: (yells) What are you doing?
Laura: Why would you do it? Why?
Liam: Do what? You have to be more specific.
Laura: Dogs. Shitting and ruining everything in our room.
Liam: What the fuck are you talking about? Dogs? I don't have any dogs.
Laura: Don't you lie to me.
Liam: I don't have any magic. I can heal a little bit and that's it. What are you talking about?
Laura: They're not even magic dogs, they're just dogs! Can I roll to see if he's fucking telling the truth?
Matt: Make an insight check.
Liam: I'll make my deception check.
Taliesin: Kiki, we've always been friends.
Marisha: Yeah, of course.
Laura: 18.
Taliesin: I want you to know this is nothing personal but this is--
Travis: Is that your second Luck?
Liam: Yes, it was.
Matt: That's the second Luck, yeah.
Taliesin: And I open the door and show you. And then I shove you in and shut the door for a moment.
Matt: You can see he's covering up. You don't quite know the full specifics, but you know he's covering.
Laura: I know you were in our room and I know you're lying to me.
Liam: I was not in your room. I am not lying to you, I don't-- (yells)
Laura: I just yank him out of the room. Trinket!
Liam: What are you-- what?
Laura: Sic him! (laughter)
Matt: At this point, she's pulled you out into the hallway. You now see, the bear you've grown up with and loved, for the first time, you realize how massive and scary this bear could be as it (growls, heavy steps).
Liam: I click my Boots of Haste!
Travis: You were fucking naked a second ago.
Matt: Trinket charges you.
Liam: This is improvisation. If I say it, it's real. That's how this fucking works.
Sam: You were putting on your boots?
Matt: So what are you doing? Trinket's coming at you.
Liam: I'm running in my boots!
Matt: All right.
Laura: I have the back of his head. I have his hair.
Liam: Disengage.
Matt: Okay. So hold on. She does have your hair.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Technically, it's a grapple.
Liam: Okay. You want to make it a strength check? I know my strength is double hers.
Laura: (gasps) Your strength is double mine?
Matt: It's athletics and acrobatics versus her--
Liam: Okay. Oh, acrobatics, okay.
Laura: Versus my strength?
Matt: I'll double-check real fast. I should remember this, but for this one particularly I want to make sure that I get specifics right here.
Taliesin: This is so great.
Sam: Forget rolling for sand castles, this is it. (laughter)
Matt: Yeah, man. This is the craziest shit. (laughs) I didn't expect it to go this way.
Taliesin: I vaguely wonder what you actually had planned for this.
Matt: Not all this!
Taliesin: This is bedlam, at this point.
Matt: This went in a whole different direction.
Sam: A big title card comes over the frame  Night One. (laughter)
Matt: Okay, yeah. It's athletics or acrobatics versus her athletics.
Laura: Oh.
Liam: Well, I will choose acrobatics.
Laura: Motherfuck.
Matt: Go ahead and roll your acrobatics. Roll your athletics.
Laura: Ugh, it was almost good.
Liam: 29.
Laura: Six!
Matt: You slip out from her grasp right as Trinket comes upon you. What's your speed?
Liam: Fucking wicked, man. I'm double-speed, so 60.
Matt: You don't have your boots on, you just put your pants on!
Ashley: Weren't you in the shower?
Matt: You mimicked putting your pants on.
Liam: All right. 30.
Matt: Okay. Trinket's movement is?
Laura: Oh, he's got 40.
Matt: Trinket is gaining on you. (laughter)
Matt: You watch as an older couple emerge from the room down the hallway and go, "Nope." And close the door.
Liam: I see food trays left by other customers. I start knocking them down and dumping food on the rug behind me as I run. It's improv. It's real!
Matt: There are small baskets.
Liam: I said I saw food!
Matt: Yeah, so you knock some baskets behind you and you keep running. You just emerge from the edge of the hallway. You can see the beach ahead of you. You can see the little bit of moonlight hitting the sand in front.
Liam: What's around me?
Matt: Hallways and doors.
Marisha: Is our room nearby? Did he see me get shoved in?
Taliesin: He wouldn't have seen you get shoved in, but he would have seen me in the hallway at this point, if he passed her.
Matt: I'd say you moved one direction. Trinket went and chased him down the other side, so this is going away from you guys.
Marisha: Hey, Vax? I think they're really mad at us.
Liam: Little busy, little busy, little busy!
Matt: Just as you emerge to part of the sand and you think you're home free, you stop hearing Trinket's footfalls. (whack) Leapt and just impacts you on the sand and both of you tumble, end-over-end, through the sand. Eventually, you land flat on your back and Trinket pounces on top of you, your breath (groans) as your chest gets closed in. And right up in your face, pinning you down, going (growls).
Liam: I immediately start doing this.
Sam: What is that?
Liam: This is me rubbing his tummy.
Laura: Oh. Don't fall for it, Trinket!
Matt: (growls) (laughter)
Matt: You are pinned by a very heavy bear, to the point where your breathing is (shallow panting).
Liam: You hear from under the bear, (muffled) I have been here before, and I will be here again!
Laura: Why would you do it? It's such a beautiful vacation and you ruined it. You ruined all of our things.
Liam: Did I ruin it? What did I ruin? I still don't know what happened.
Laura: Vax, you let two dogs loose in our room and they shit and pissed all over everything, and our bed is ruined. They were fucking in our bed!
Liam: I did not fucking let two dogs--
Laura: Then what did you do? I know you were in our room. I know you're lying to me.
Liam: I was there for five seconds. I put Taryon's armor under the bed and then I left. I was in there for 30 seconds. I don't have any dogs. I don't know dogs.
Laura: Why would you put Taryon's armor in our room?
Liam: Because it was fucking hilarious!
Laura: Wait a minute.
Marisha: That's the trolliest thing you've said, ever!
Laura: Did you tell Tary?
Liam: I did.
Laura: So Tary did this?
Liam: What happened?
Laura: Someone let two giant dogs loose in our room, and they destroyed our things. Just destroyed it. And now, on top of having everything ruined, we're probably going to have to pay for damages. Which will be coming out of your funds, by the way.
Liam: That's the funniest bit, because I have no money.
Laura: Well, then Keyleth. Trinket, stay on him for a while. Just for a while. Feel free to relieve yourself. (laughter)
Matt: Trinket's head slowly turns over back towards you with a, "What?"
Laura: Just a little time. And I walk.
Matt: As you walk away, Trinket's head moves back to you, and if you could see a bear smile?
Liam: Yeah. When she's gone and it's just us, I say, she thinks I care. I don't care. Does she let you kiss her? No, she doesn't. But you get to kiss me all you want, so have at it, buddy.
Matt: Trinket goes, (grunts).
Liam: It's all right.
Matt: And you feel your lower regions get warmer. (groaning and laughter)
Laura: You got pissed on.
Liam: I've been inside a dragon's fucking stomach, buddy. I don't care. The beach is 50 feet that way. Get it all out.
Matt: All right, while you're pinned there, you march off. You guys just now catch up to the chaos.
Marisha: I have to say, wherever these dogs came from, they're very beautiful dogs. Look purebred. Very great muscular structure. Come here, boys. Come here!
Matt: Keyleth's currently getting the mastiffs out of the room.
Marisha: Can I Speak With Animals to them?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Come here, boys. Come here. I take out some beef jerky. Come here. That's good boys. Good boys.
Laura: Where did you have beef jerky?
Marisha: Fish jerky from where we were at the casino earlier.
Sam: Oh snap!
Marisha: As Liam O'Brien said, it's improv, so that makes it true!
Laura: I'm just wondering--
Liam: You fucking made out that you were hiding in crystal clear bathwater, motherfucker! If you say it, it's real!
Marisha: Right, so just like the internet, if you say it, it's real. Come here, boys.
Matt: Animal handling.
Marisha: Oh, it smells. You boys did a number in this room. Okay. (laughter)
Marisha: I've got to have some advantage for being a fucking druid, right?
Matt: No.
Marisha: That's a one.
Matt: So you say, "Come here, boys." They both look at you. They rush up, grab the jerky out of your hands, and dart out of the room. You hear them, (barks) vanishing.
Marisha: Fuck these dogs! That's why you said we should never own dogs.
Matt: Taryon?
Sam: I'm getting night cream put on me by Doty. (laughter)
Sam: Doty, could you sing to me?
Matt: (sings) "Tary. Tary. Tary." It's all the same. It's all horribly mechanical-sounding and echo-y. It's not singing more than it's repeating your name over and over again in the same intonation. It's horrifying.
Marisha: Percy?
Taliesin: You're going to have to help us clean at least our personal belongings.
Marisha: I didn't do this! I'm more than happy to help, but I just want you to know: I had nothing to do with this.
Taliesin: Oh, I know. I know you had nothing to do with this. He's useless. You're not, so I'm going to make you help on his behalf.
Marisha: It smells like shit. Like a giant fucking locker down shit in here.
Taliesin: Worse than hell. Legitimately worse than hell. This is making me miss hell.
Marisha: I'm going to cast Control Water. Can I magic this clean-up like it's Fantasia or some shit?
Matt: That is Prestidigitation.
Marisha: No, can I Control Water and levitate the urine?
Travis: Yeah, totally.
Matt: You know what? Yes, I'll let you do that. I will let you Control Urine.
Marisha: I am the leader of my tribe, and I am doing janitorial duties. Ugh.
Matt: After completing your Aramente, after years of training in the druidic arts and becoming the leader of your people, you are reduced to lifting the urine from a ruined hotel room.
Taliesin: I would like you to meditate upon who is responsible for this.
Marisha: Fucking Vox Machina pieces of-- why am I-- why are we us?
Taliesin: This is your boy. I'm taking no responsibility for this one.
Marisha: Okay, I control the water and fling it into the ocean.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I'm hearing all this over the earring, and I whisper, only to Trinket: I'm back, Trinket. I'm back. (laughter)
Marisha: I control a little of the urine that dribbled in the hall, as well. I don't want us to get kicked out by the hotel.
Matt: The room's still destroyed. For the sake of brevity, here--
Taliesin: Some wild dogs attacked our room.
Matt: Who's talking to the manager about this?
Laura: Percy is.
Taliesin: I'll speak to the manager.
Matt: All right.
Sam: (giggles) Wild dogs?
Marisha: Wild ocean dogs. Beach dogs.
Matt: So at this point, while all this has happened, Guath, the gentleman at the front, sees the bear and is like, "What is going--" (yelps) The dogs go (barks) and jump past him. The slightly chubby halfling comes forward. "What the fuck is going on?"
Marisha: You tell us, man.
Matt: "No, you tell me. This is my place! Whose dogs were those?"
Taliesin: We have no idea. We came back and they were in our room, pissing on our stuff.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Taliesin: This is not deception!
Matt: You know whose they are.
Taliesin: Actually, do I know whose they are?
Matt: You've been hearing it over the earring this whole time.
Taliesin: I don't know where they came from.
Travis: That's true, he hasn't said.
Matt: That's true.
Taliesin: I'll do deception.
Matt: Persuasion.
Taliesin: Persuasion? Well, deception's higher, but I'll try persuasion. (laughter)
Marisha: What the fuck, man?
Taliesin: No, god damn it.
Sam: Honor yourself.
Taliesin: I'm honoring myself. It doesn't matter, anyway. That's 27.
Matt: He goes, (sighs).
Taliesin: I mean, it was upsetting. Your property, our property. This is our problem. All of us.
Matt: "Let me see." He pulls past and makes his way towards the room, and looks inside, and you can see him go, (distressed noise).
Taliesin: Has this happened before?
Matt: "No! I've never seen those dogs here before. The breed? They don't exist!" (laughter)
Taliesin: I've never seen them before, either. I've never seen anything like it.
Matt: (exclaims in a foreign language)
Taliesin: How good a job did you do on our stuff?
Matt: It's still torn and messed up, but it's not covered in urine. It still smells terrible in there.
Liam: Your clothes and bullshit is fine.
Taliesin: I know.
Matt: "I'm so sorry."
Taliesin: It's hardly your fault. This is ridiculous.
Matt: "We'll get you a new room immediately. Hey!" Two servants come out immediately. He starts shouting out to them in Marquesian. They walk off and eventually people start coming in and pulling your stuff out of the room and taking it to another chamber. It's down two halls over, so you guys are separated from everybody else.
Taliesin: We have a lot of foreign guests as well, in our establishment back home, so I know how things can sometimes get a bit crazy, and I certainly don't want to put any undue pressure on you.
Matt: "Oh, it is okay. We will launch an investigation immediately."
Taliesin: Excellent.
Matt: So. (laughs) Vex, anything else you want to do?
Laura: Yeah, I want to go knock on Tary's door.
Matt: You hear through the doorway this really creepy, "Tary. Tary."
Sam: I'll take off my blinders, my night-blinders.
Taliesin: Do they actually have little cucumbers drawn on them?
Sam: My mask. Come in.
Laura: Do you have Doty singing to you again?
Sam: Oh, yes. He sings me to sleep now. It's sort of a ritual we have.
Laura: I shut the door.
Sam: Did you have a nice night, Little Elf Girl?
Laura: I didn't, Goldie. Actually, did you happen to set a couple of dogs loose in our room?
Sam: Well, between you and me, I did.
Laura: Oh, you did?
Sam: You see, Percival played a little bit of a prank on me, and I got him back.
Laura: Yes. Well, you also got me back, and actually, it wasn't Percival, it was my brother who did it. Stole your armor?
Sam: But he told me that it was--
Laura: Yes.
Sam: He told me--
Laura: Yes, and you believed him over your two best friends?
Sam: You've taught me so much, but not about the human heart. (sighs) I am so sorry. I should have trusted you.
Laura: You should've!
Sam: I should have not doubted my staunchest ally, Percival. Of course, someone as trained as he is in the sciences wouldn't lie to me like that. I failed you.
Laura: Tary, you know I can't stay mad at you!
Sam: I'm so sorry! (laughter)
Sam: What can I do to make it up?
Laura: I don't know--
Sam: Doty, go clean their room.
Laura: Thank you, dear.
Sam: I'm so sorry.
Laura: Oh, it was disgusting.
Sam: But your brother.
Laura: I know! Trinket peed on him.
Sam: Trinket peed on him? Well, that's pretty good. I feel like there's more revenge to be had, but you know what? We're on vacation.
Liam: Over their earrings, they hear, he also dropped a loaf.
Laura: He also dropped a loaf, apparently.
Sam: That's nice. All right. I'm so sorry. Will you forgive me?
Laura: Of course I do, dear. Have a wonderful night's sleep.
Sam: You, too.
Laura: I'll send Doty back when he's done.
Sam: He can last forever, so just as long as you need him. He'll wash whatever you need. He has motor skills. Not fine motor skills, but he could try to sew something if anything was ripped.
Laura: I'll check it out and I'll let you know.
Sam: And if you ever need more dogs?
Laura: You're the man to call.
Taliesin: I see Doty appear, correct?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Doty, they're going to take our things. I know why you're here.
Matt: He just walks past you. (laughter)
Matt: Enters the room.
Taliesin: Are our things even in our room anymore?
Matt: Your things are being brought out in pieces, but the two employees see Doty enter and set them down and Doty starts picking things up and dusts them off. Starts picking up the piles of dog feces.
Taliesin: Tary, call him off.
Sam: Sorry?
Taliesin: Call him off.
Sam: I'm sorry? Call him off?
Taliesin: Call him off.
Sam: He's cleaning your things.
Taliesin: No. We're getting another room.
Marisha: What is he throwing away?
Matt: He's throwing the dung out onto the beach. Starts heading back.
Sam: I should have been more specific.
Marisha: I don't think he's very sanitary.
Sam: This is my earring, by the way.
Taliesin: I know.
Sam: This is how I have to talk with it. I have to dangle it.
Taliesin: I know you have to fiddle your dangle. I'm well aware.
Sam: All right, I'll be right there to give him more specific instructions.
Taliesin: We're going to sleep.
Sam: I'm coming.
Liam: Do you improve the reception by moving it around?
Matt: Okay. Over the course of the evening, the room gets cleaned as best as it can.
Taliesin: We do not tell them what our new room number is.
Matt: You guys, from that point being the most contentious, but you manage to enjoy the rest of your stay here in the Bay of Gifts. You enjoy a nice, well-earned vacation, some of you plotting the next stage in your vengeance, whenever that may occur. Boarding your ship back, making your way to your home in Tal'Dorei, across back to Whitestone proper to finish the remainder of your year's journey. We're going to take a break. Before I go, real fast, letting you guys know, we have another giveaway tonight. This is a nice purple heart Wyrmwood mini holder, which is pretty rad.
Sam: Is that what I have?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: I love it. Honestly, this is the best color. It's so cool. It's kinda like rose gold, therefore it's the best. (laughter)
Matt: There you go. Yeah, so this is going to go to one of you lucky winners in the chat. The code word for tonight is Momocon. M-O-M-O-C-O-N. So go ahead and we'll do that over the break. Enjoy Liam's episode of Signal Boost.
Ashley: It's so good!
Liam: Man, that was pure Dungeons and Dragons. I took a little pebble and dropped it and it turned into a frigging avalanche on the side of Everest.
Taliesin: That reminded me of the old home games quite a bit.
Matt: I wasn't expecting that to become our beach episode, but it did! (laughs) All right, guys, we'll see you here in a little bit. [break]
Matt: Welcome back, everybody, to Critical Role. (laughter)
Matt: First and foremost, our winner in the chat room goes by the name of Makelovelikewar, congratulations! Congratulations. You won the box. We've all signed it, and it'll be coming to you in the near future. Make sure to contact the folks who run the chat here, and they'll get your information, and well done. All righty, so. Bringing us back in. You guys have been travelling across the Silvercut Roadway, through the dividing plains of Tal'Dorei, onwards to the Alabaster Sierras, and eventually to the homestead of Whitestone. You guys have made your way back.
Marisha: We catch up on so much gossip.
Matt: (laughs) So you arrive. What do you want to do?
Travis: Well, actually, now that we're home, I would like to try and find Pike once we're in and settled.
Matt: So you guys all get settled and you find your way to your rooms. The afternoon comes to a close for the evening, and everyone's gone off to do their business and prepare for a dinner, we'll say, in about an hour.
Travis: Cool. Hey. Hey. Oh, sorry.
Ashley: Hello?
Travis: Hey, it's Grog.
Ashley: Oh, come in!
Travis: Huh, what?
Ashley: Okay. (laughter)
Ashley: Hi, Grog.
Travis: Hi! Hey. Hey. Hey. So, can I shut the door? So I--
Ashley: Yes?
Travis: Oh, okay. I shut the door. So, I have a secret.
Ashley: Ooh?
Travis: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Ashley: Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay.
Travis: Okay, so. When we beat Thordak, I was rummaging around and all of Emon's treasures were in this one place and everybody was like, "Meh, we want to heal," and I found these little gifts, and one of them was this little itty-bitty deck of cards.
Ashley: (gasps)
Travis: I know, right? Now, here's the thing. It was in a really pretty box: wooden box with gold all over it. I tried to open it, and it wouldn't, so I smashed it.
Ashley: Naturally.
Travis: Like you do.
Ashley: Yeah.
Travis: And I took it out. And I drew a card from it, and this magic sword appeared in my hand.
Ashley: (gasps) So something magic comes out of it when you pick one? Can I pick one?
Travis: Yeah. Do you want to?
Ashley: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah. So I also went and I was journeying around. I went to Vasselheim. Now, here's the thing. Vex was like, "No, don't pick one, it's dangerous. Mm."
Ashley: Wait, it can be dangerous?
Travis: Well, no. She's afraid that it's dangerous, right? Because the sword, it turned to rust, and I got a headache afterwards. Whatever.
Ashley: Okay. Oh.
Travis: But I think I didn't handle it right. But I went to Vasselheim, and I had this other guy pick a card. You know?
Ashley: Okay.
Travis: And he picked a card. He got two Wishes.
Ashley: What!
Travis: Just like that! And he made himself--
Ashley: That sounds like the best thing ever.
Travis: I know! He's the Lord of the Crossroads.
Ashley: The Crossroads.
Travis: Yep.
Ashley: (gasps)
Travis: He's rich; he had a servant who appeared out of nowhere. All of a sudden he had fuckin' dope-ass threads.
Ashley: Should we-- Whoa. Should we pick a card?
Travis: I mean, I feel like we should. I've seen nothing but good things happen. (laughter)
Ashley: Wait, what do you mean this sword gave you a headache, Grog?
Travis: Well, I don't know. So it was a magic sword, right? I was going to be able to throw it and it would fight without me. Like it would just fight things that I told it to.
Ashley: Was it evil?
Travis: No! I tried talking to it and it didn't say anything.
Ashley: Okay, that's a--
Travis: We have a history.
Ashley: That's a red flag.
Travis: I know. I have a history of, you know.
Ashley: So it didn't talk back to you.
Travis: Nope.
Ashley: It fought on its own.
Travis: Yep.
Ashley: A guy that you met, you made him just rich and amazing.
Travis: Yeah. Pretty much. I think it's a Deck of Fortunate Things.
Ashley: A Deck of Fortune?
Travis: I think so. I mean, I haven't really looked at it too closely. Do you want to look at it with your knowledge?
Ashley: I mean, I don't, yeah.
Travis: Yeah.
Ashley: I don't know if I have the knowledge, but I'll look at it.
Travis: All right. I give her the deck.
Matt: All right, make an arcana check. (gasping)
Ashley: Natural 20. (cheering)
Matt: But what's your skill? What's your skill bonus?
Ashley: Plus one. So 21.
Matt: Okay, you take the small sack that contains the cards, and you pull the deck out of it, and you inspect it from the outside. Just checking the inscriptions. You've heard things about magical decks of cards. Sometimes they're used to see the future. Sometimes they're used for different types of augury and divination. You might've heard a myth or two about a card deck that can alter reality in good and bad ways. That's as much as you are able to glean from this.
Ashley: Can I tell which cards are good and which cards are bad?
Matt: No.
Ashley: I was just checking. (laughter)
Ashley: I figured the answer would be 'no'.
Matt: But you do know from looking at this, while the name doesn't come to you, you're able to ascertain this seems to be very, very in line with the fate-altering deck of cards, the one you've heard can do good and bad, and is as powerful and dangerous as it is interesting.
Ashley: I feel like I've heard of something like this before.
Travis: Really?
Ashley: But sometimes you can choose a card that will do very bad things.
Travis: Oh.
Ashley: So it's like a 50/50 chance that you could get something very good. Like, you have your fortune change, you become a king, all of this thing--
Travis: Or you make a bad person a king?
Ashley: Or you get a magical sword. Or if maybe someone-- you could just die instantly.
Travis: Really?
Ashley: I don't know, maybe. Something along those lines.
Travis: But we're good people, so good things would happen to us.
Ashley: (strained) Oh, it just sounds so fun though.
Travis: I know, right? And think about my previous experience. There is nothing bad that has happened in what I've seen so far.
Laura: (laughs) Oh god.
Ashley: (strained) Oh, I don't know what to do. Well, do you want to pull one or should I pull one? Or should we not?
Travis: I don't know. I mean, like, I kind of want to. I mean, so like. Like bad things.
Ashley: What could be that bad? I mean, if someone were to die, we could do a Resurrection spell.
Travis: How could it just outright kill you? Well if you die, I can't do a spell.
Ashley: (sighs) I don't know what to do. I don't know if we should. I don't know if we should test the fates.
Travis: We should flip a coin.
Ashley: Let's flip a coin.
Travis: Okay. Do you have a coin?
Ashley: Yeah, I have a coin.
Travis: Oh, you do? That was lucky.
Matt: All right. Did you--
Marisha: "We shouldn't test the fates, let's flip a coin." (laughter)
Matt: Do you want me to flip a coin for you?
Liam: You can roll a 20.
Laura: Oh yeah, no. We have coins.
Marisha: I've got one on hand right now, beotches.
Travis: Do you want to?
Matt: It's up to you guys. This is entirely your call.
Marisha: Here it is.
Laura: Oh, Melora.
Liam: Coming in.
Laura: There you go.
Ashley: Okay.
Travis: What if all the good ones are gone?
Ashley: Heads or tails. Okay, so one is heads.
Travis: Heads, because that's all bad in the heads. But the tail is the booty, so.
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: Wait, but what is what?
Ashley: So what's what? 20, we pick a card. One, we do not.
Liam: 20, we don't pick a card.
Ashley: 20, we don't pick a card.
Liam: 20 is sensible. One is ridiculous.
Ashley: You are not here.
Travis: Yeah, what do you feel like? What do you feel like? One, we pick a card. 20, we don't-- we do pick a card. (laughter)
Ashley: That's both of those. You said we'd pick a card both sides.
Travis: That was a Fraudidean slip. (laughter)
Ashley: Yeah. One, we pick a card. 20, we don't.
Travis: Okay.
Ashley: Who picks the card? Or should we--
Travis: We should flip for that too.
Ashley: Okay, okay, I'm going to check it. Oh, we don't pick a card.
Travis: But that was for you, you flipped. And now I flip.
Ashley: Okay. Oh. You don't pick a card either. You know what? It's safer this way.
Travis: It is?
Ashley: I think so. Because what if we would've gotten something bad? Did you want me to hold onto it? Or do you want to hold onto it? I'm just afraid you're going to pick it and be alone.
Travis: I might. (laughter)
Travis: No, I want it. I really want it. It's real important to me.
Ashley: Do not. Pick it. Alone.
Travis: I've made this promise before. (laughter)
Ashley: Who did you make the promise to?
Travis: Vex.
Ashley: Well, you live your life how you want to--
Travis: Oh. Ooh. No, your promise was different. You said 'alone' so if I was like really, (distressed noise) I need to, I come to you--
Ashley: Yeah.
Travis: And we pick it.
Ashley: Yeah.
Travis: Okay. Deal.
Ashley: Yeah, okay.
Travis: Thanks. You're sure you don't want to just, like, slide one out and just take a look at it?
Ashley: Just take a peek?
Travis: Yep. All right, fine. (laughter)
Ashley: (strained) I want to so bad.
Travis: All right.
Laura: That is fate. Helping us.
Ashley: I know.
Taliesin: That was like watching an eight-year-old juggle a gun. (laughter)
Laura: Was that another 20?
Travis: Yes. (laughter)
Liam: They both want to do it so bad.
Matt: I know.
Marisha: Moving on from that scene before they change their mind.
Matt: We'll say for the point of the narrative, a couple of weeks go by, relatively unimpactful.
Laura: Oh, I get my circle!
Matt: Yeah, the Teleportation Circle is complete.
Laura: Hey, guys. We can go to Syngorn whenever we want.
Marisha: Oh, rad.
Laura: Tight, right?
Liam: The question is, do we want to?
Laura: Probably not!
Marisha: Can I go check in with the Sun Tree while I'm here?
Matt: Yeah, sure. So you walk on down to the center of Whitestone, which is now far more full of life and bustling. A lot of the buildings that line the square have little flower boxes underneath the windows. Color has returned to it. Still keeps moody gray skies a large portion of the day, but overall the city itself seems to have sprung into life over the past year or so. The Sun Tree is beautiful. It's still a vastly bark-visible tree. It has that orange-brown color across it, smooth in most places, a little more textured toward the bottom, but you see the very lush green leaves up into the boughs. You can see little bits of white flowers that year-round reside up in the top. It stands there before you in all of its magnificence.
Marisha: I come up and say, hey, Sun Tree. Casting Speak With Plants, of course.
Matt: "Hey, Keyleth."
Marisha: Hey!
Matt: "It's been a while."
Marisha: It's been so long. You're looking so good. So healthy.
Matt: "Thanks. I've been eating right."
Marisha: Yeah? Have you been working out?
Matt: "As much as I can. You know, I'm a tree."
Marisha: Sure. Yeah. How's it been? Whitestone seems so much better. Seems happier. Has morale been up?
Matt: "I mean, yeah."
Marisha: Yeah?
Matt: "There's kids and stuff."
Marisha: Yeah? Do the kids sometimes climb in you?
Matt: "Yeah."
Marisha: Do you like that?
Matt: "No."
Marisha: No? Oh, right.
Matt: "No, it's uncomfortable."
Marisha: Really?
Matt: "Yeah."
Marisha: Should I put a Do Not Climb sign on you? Would you like that?
Matt: "Would you have to nail it into me?"
Marisha: No. I could stake it in the ground around you.
Matt: "It's fine."
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: "But thank you. I appreciate the offer."
Marisha: Anything to make you more comfortable, man.
Matt: "Appreciate it."
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: "You're great."
Marisha: Oh, thanks. Anyway, is there anything else that you need? Any new news? Anything going on?
Matt: "Nah. Glad the snowing stopped."
Marisha: Right? Thought that winter would last forever, right?
Matt: "It's hard to keep these blossoms up through the winter, let me tell you."
Marisha: Oh, yeah? But you're still good.
Matt: "Yeah. How are you doing, Kiki?"
Marisha: Oh, you know. Keeping busy, keeping on keeping on, you know? It's been good. You're like the coolest person I know, and you're a tree. It's weird. Even after a year, it's like talking to an old friend. It's good.
Matt: "If I could blush." (laughter)
Taliesin: Oh wow.
Marisha: Oh, look! Some of these flowers are getting a little pink, Sun Tree.
Matt: "Don't point it out. It's embarrassing. So. Hi."
Marisha: No, that's all. It's actually getting a little awkward now. It's gone on for a little long.
Matt: "I'm glad you brought that up. I didn't want to breach the subject."
Marisha: I just wanted to make sure you were cool.
Matt: "No, I'm cool."
Marisha: Yeah. Awesome. Okay, I'll see you around. Bye.
Matt: Hang up.
Laura: It's going to be a while before you guys call again.
Marisha: I'll wait for him to text me first. Yeah. It's the rule. Long time.
Taliesin: I don't know what they're looking at.
Matt: I don't know, either. Partway into the day, we'll say that you've been doing this. The bakery's been going fine. Which, actually, Pike and Vex, you've been in the process of-- have you guys hired employees to run the bakery?
Laura: Obviously.
Matt: Are you more playing as managers as opposed to actual workers?
Marisha: Owners.
Laura: Creative input.
Matt: Pike, on this day, you've been keeping tabs on this. A couple of the Pale Guard approach the bakery. One of them, without seeing you, walks in and goes, "We're looking for Pike. Is Miss Pike in?"
Ashley: Yes?
Matt: "Could you please come with us? There's somebody on the border requesting your presence."
Ashley: Where?
Matt: "On the outskirts of Whitestone."
Ashley: Okay. Yes.
Matt: "Someone who says they know you. You'd better come with us."
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: The two guards step back and-- do you walk with them?
Ashley: Yes.
Laura: Are any of us with you?
Matt: It's just her, at the moment.
Marisha: Does she walk past the Sun Tree when I'm having a random conversation with no one?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: Rolling really shitty tonight. Let's see what happens. Oh, that's good! That's much better. Straight perception? 30.
Matt: Okay. As you're walking away from the Sun Tree and begin heading back to the northern side of Whitestone, glancing back at him. "Oh, it's good to talk to him again." And you see Pike walking with two guards just on the southwestern side of the square. She looks a little nervous.
Marisha: It's about that time I'm like, okay, bye, Sun Tree. And then I'm going to Beast Shape into a crow and start circling her.
Matt: There are two kids off to the side that were just playing who look over and go, "Whoa."
Laura: That was amazing!
Ashley: That was awesome!
Matt: "I want to do that!"
Marisha: Poop on the way up.
Laura: That was even cooler!
Matt: They did not see that. So, as you're brought to the western road, it leads you alongside the shops and one of the guard who's talking to you is like, "Yeah, sorry. A group of folks have been here for a couple of days asking-- a few hours, I should say. Not a couple of days. Asking about you. We've kept an eye on them. They don't seem to be aggressive, but they asked for you recently, and we managed to find you by the bakery. Here they are." They lead you to the outside of the town, and there you see a small carriage with two horses that are currently hitched up front. You see about three other Pale Guard in full armor. One of them is in the middle of conversation with a couple of figures. You see four figures. You see three, and then a fourth one emerges from inside the carriage. It's a topped carriage with what looks to be some sort of curtains that are closed-- reds and dark purples. It doesn't look like an elaborate carriage, but it's functional. You see a male gnome with short dark hair, slicked to one side, and a well-groomed mustache that curls at the end. He's in the middle of talking when he glances over and sees you and goes, "Aha! She's here!" He leaps off the top and the guards get defensive as he goes, "Astra! Ogden! JB? She's here!" Then he goes rushing off in your direction as the guards are like, "Sir! Sir!" He ignores them for a second, and the two guards with you say, "Miss Pike, should we?" And they go for their blades.
Ashley: It's okay.
Matt: He approaches real fast and goes, (laughs) and gives a big old hug and lifts you off the ground, and it takes you a minute to realize, this is Johann Trickfoot, your cousin who you haven't seen in quite a long time. He's dressed in a fine vest that is a dark maroon color with a gold trim. A little ragged at the edges, but fine. Big, swishy pants and boots, and he lifts you up for a second and then sets you back down and is like, "It's been quite a while."
Ashley: It's been so long. How did you know where to find me?
Matt: "Well, we got your letter! And we've been hearing all about you-- at least, JB's been telling us all about you, hasn't she?" And he looks around and you see the other figures as they approach. There's a female gnome, older than you, who you haven't met before, who has curly strawberry-blonde hair that goes just past her shoulders. She's wearing this very revealing shirt and seems to walk with a confidence and smile and she goes, "Pike, my dear! I've heard all about you!" And she rushes up and gives you a big hug as well. You look back, and stepping off the carriage, you see a very old gnome who is just a wreath of black and salt-and-pepper hair, crazy, around him like a lion's mane, and a giant beard. You wouldn't see a face if not for these small spectacles and a little button nose poking out as he's being helped off the wagon by another female gnome that you recognize as she turns around towards you. She has long, straight black hair that goes right past her shoulders. She has a Wednesday Addams vibe to her. She looks back at you and smiles, and you can see this gap in her front teeth. She's about your age. This is JB Trickfoot. She is the--
Marisha: JB?
Matt: JB. She's another one of your cousins. One that you grew up with, actually, when you were very young, but you haven't seen her in a very long time. As they all begin to approach, this small cluster of Trickfoots have approached. As JB walks up to answer Johann, says, "Yes, indeed. We've heard all about you. I've been so proud to hear that you've done such great good in the world, cousin."
Ashley: I give her a hug. It's good to see you. It's been a very long time.
Matt: "Far too long."
Ashley: Did you guys just come here to see me?
Matt: "Yes." Johann claps his arm on the side of your shoulder. "Yes, of course! It's been-- I can't even remember. Look at how big you are! Last I saw you, you were waist-high to a knuckle-punch. It's been far too long. And so strong!" He's slapping the side of your arm, and they're all doing the whole family gathering, pulling and tugging, and you're starting to feel uncomfortable from all the attention, and the guards are all confused but also mildly amused by this family gathering. The old one now catches up, and you recognize that this is your uncle Ogden Trickfoot, who is the father to both Johann and JB. As he approaches, he has this small walking cane and he's walking at an angle because he doesn't quite see you. He's like, "Are you sure that she's around?"
Ashley: I'm right here!
Matt: "Huh?"
Ashley: Hi.
Matt: "Ah. Yes."
Ashley: How are you?
Matt: "I'm all right. It's so good to see you."
Ashley: It's so wonderful to see you.
Matt: "There you are."
Ashley: I'm here.
Matt: He adjusts his head a little. "They tell me that you slay dragons!"
Ashley: Yes, I did. With my friends.
Matt: "What?"
Ashley: Who I would love to introduce you guys to. My friends?
Matt: "What did she say?"
Ashley: My friends!
Matt: JB's like, "She said yes. She's slayed dragons."
Ashley: I also--
Matt: "What?"
Ashley: I also have a bakery!
Matt: "She says a bakery?"
Ashley: It's called the Slayer's Cake!
Matt: "Cake?" Suddenly you see his face brighten. Between the bursts of facial and head hair, you see a little bit of rosy cheeks poke through with a smile. JB goes, "We'll get you cake. We'll get you a cake, uncle."
Ashley: Come this way. I didn't realize you guys would be coming, but I'm glad that you got my letter and everything else.
Matt: At which point, the blonde one goes, "Yes, of course we did. You are as beautiful as everything they told me. I'm Astra, by the way. I'm Johann's wife. We haven't met, but you are a sight to see." She takes your hands and pulls your hands and goes, "Oh my, and aren't you the strapping young lady. Who's the lucky man?"
Ashley: Oh. Well, no one right now.
Matt: "Oh. Shouldn't be a problem. Or woman. Whatever, I don't know. You can tell me later."
Ashley: We'll discuss later, maybe, but do come in. I would love to introduce you to some friends of mine. Come into town.
Matt: JB's smile creeps, and you see the gap in her teeth once more. "Are these friends Vox Machina?"
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: At which point, they all look at her, and she goes, "I'm so excited. Please?" And they all gather around you, and the guard comes up real fast. "Miss, do you require assistance?"
Ashley: Just walk us into town. That would be great. Just in case there's anything that might jump out and get us.
Matt: "Very well." And the three guards that were at the front shout out, "The carriage?" And Johann goes, "Oh, yes! Well, it's now under the watch of one Pike Trickfoot, so just put it wherever the royal horses go." (chuckles)
Travis: Oh god.
Laura: Oh, I don't like them at all.
Liam: A cart of the Sackville-Bagginses just rolled up.
Ashley: Let me-- you know what? Guards, can you take them to the Slayer's Cake? And I will be right there.
Matt: "Of course! You're a busy woman. Don't worry about it." Astra fluffs her hair a bit. "Besides, I can have a guard escort me any day." The guard just grabs her arm and starts walking along with her. You can already tell she's a bubbly flirt.
Marisha: Keyleth flies down and lands on Pike's shoulder.
Ashley: Hey. Okay, so you just saw that. My family's here, the family I haven't really seen since I was a kid, and they're-- we have the last name Trickfoot for a reason. I'm going to get on the earring and say, whoever is available, I would love to maybe have you come to the Slayer's Cake. Some of my family is here.
Travis: (gasps, running noises)
Ashley: Hold on! Watch your pockets, watch your stuff. Just keep an eye on your things. Yeah, just please come?
Laura: We've got you, darling.
Marisha: I bamf out of my Beast Shape. Whoa! What?
Ashley: Okay, I sent money. I didn't tell them where I was.
Marisha: You sent money?
Ashley: I did. I don't know, maybe I shouldn't have done it. I just wanted to make sure that they were okay. Maybe that wasn't a good idea.
Marisha: You've told us very vague amounts about your family.
Ashley: Because they're--
Marisha: It was surprising. You haven't talked about them too much, just that they're shady.
Ashley: I left when I was very young, so a lot of them I don't really know. Okay.
Marisha: You know, we love you, and family or not, if anyone tries to fucking use you, we will--
Ashley: Thank you. Okay. I don't think it'll come to that.
Marisha: All right. I just don't want anyone taking advantage of you.
Ashley: Right.
Matt: As you're having this conversation, (thudding sounds)
Travis: (shouting) Gnomes! (pants)
Ashley: Okay. Just get ready. Let's go to the Slayer's Cake.
Taliesin: I'm walking from the cemetery. However far that is.
Ashley: They alluded to the fact that they know who Vox Machina is, which I guess in this day and age, people know who we are. Which is weird. Okay, just be prepared, because it's not like I'm embarrassed of my family or anything, I just-- they're great! I just don't really know them.
Travis: You don't know them?
Ashley: Okay, Wilhand took me out of there when I was six, so it's been a while.
Marisha: Have you kept in contact with any of them until recently?
Ashley: Not really? JB, my cousin who you'll meet in a little bit, but not really. Not really at all.
Travis: Yeah, they never came by Wilhand's.
Ashley: No, they have so many things to do.
Travis: Busy. Important.
Ashley: Busy. But just hold onto your butts. Hold onto your things. They are sneaky. Sneaky-sneaky. They like to take things, and they're fast and small and that little sleight-of-hand didn't get passed down to me, but-- oh, I'm so uncomfortable right now!
Travis: Yeah, you're sweating a lot.
Marisha: Here. And I dab her brow off a little.
Ashley: Thanks.
Marisha: Do you need anything? Do you need anything to look cool?
Travis: Do you want some deodorant? You kind of smell.
Ashley: Yeah.
Marisha: Okay. I pull out my oils that I use on Vax. Here you go. You're good. Much better.
Laura: Have we caught up with them yet?
Matt: Yeah, they've been having this conversation with them just standing in the square not far from the Slayer's Cake.
Taliesin: That's never going to get old.
Matt: It'll never get old. Yeah, so you've caught up at this point. Percy, you've just started to see them in the distance.
Taliesin: Yeah. I'm excited.
Matt: Taryon, I don't know if you're--
Sam: I'm at the Slayer's Cake. I am making blondies.
Matt: Okay. So, while you guys are having this conversation, Taryon, you hear what sounds like ruckus, laughter, conversation, voices overlapping, getting louder and louder and then suddenly the front door to the Slayer's Cake, which has been quiet this afternoon, (thud). And then, (laughs) "Oh! This place is amazing! Do you smell that? You smell that, Uncle?" And you watch as the uncle comes in. (sniffs) "Smells like rocks."
Sam: Rocks?
Matt: "He lost his smell when he was very-- it was a terrible accident. Horse hoof in the face. Anyway, hi! We're family of Pike Trickfoot, and we were told to come here and try your wares! So this is a bakery?"
Sam: In Gnomish, welcome to the store. Any family of Pike Trickfoot is family of mine. I am one of her closest friends, Taryon Darrington. Here you go. Blondies on the house for everyone to celebrate your blondie, Pike Trickfoot.
Matt: "She wasn't always blonde, you know."
Sam: Oh, I don't know that at all. What?
Matt: Yeah. I guess she wanted a change of pace. She had dark hair when she was younger.
Sam: Really?
Matt: "Astra, free treats!" And they start grabbing and filling their pockets with blondies and eating them in between.
Sam: I've got more. Sure. You can take all you want. Everything in the store is yours.
Matt: You watch as JB walks up with long, dark hair, and goes, "Do you happen to have any water?"
Sam: Of course! Doty, go fetch some water for these fine gnomes.
Matt: "Tary." Grabs and gets a small bucket of water and sets it down. You watch as JB begins breaking up the pastry and dipping it in the water and then feeding it to the uncle.
Sam: Ugh.
Matt: Occasionally has to right his face, and it's getting caught in the beard a little bit.
Sam: You know, family is everything, and I'm so pleased to meet you. Can you tell me what she was like as a child?
Matt: "Well, (chuckles) she--" At that point, the door bursts open and the rest of you arrive there at the Slayer's Cake.
Travis: Yes!
Ashley: Oh, I see you got some blondies.
Matt: "We did. Your friend here--"
Sam: Taryon Darrington.
Matt: "Taryon Darrington, who apparently speaks Gnomish-- look at you, keeping your culture. Was nice enough to give us the run of the house!"
Sam: I told them they could have anything they wanted in the place, free of charge.
Ashley: I mean, just don't get sick by having too many pastries.
Matt: (chuckles) "Oh, my dear. That's not possible."
Ashley: This is-- guys? Everybody? This is my family. This is part of my family.
Matt: "Johann Trickfoot, random tasker, at your service." He bows. The woman with the curls says, "Astra Trickfoot. This here's my lumpy husband." Elbows him in the side. "And also at your service." And glances over and does a quick scan of everybody and falls on you and gives you a wink. JB, who is currently feeding the older uncle Ogden Trickfoot, goes, "I'm JB. I'm the cousin who grew up with her the most. She's my favorite." At which point, she's been so concentrated on this, she doesn't realize she's been mashing the food into the side of Ogden's cheek. (babbling) "I'm sorry." She wipes him down.
Liam: I'm sorry. What brings you fine folk into town? Are you just visiting Pike here?
Matt: Astra goes, "Well, we travel a lot and we've heard of exploits in various towns all around. I just have not had the chance to meet Pike after all the stories I've heard, and Johann speaks of her often, and JB is pretty much obsessed with your exploits." JB's over there. "I've been keeping tabs." "So we were surprised that we were located by a courier who gave us your letter and your absolutely unnecessary but very appreciated donation to the family, and we thought it would be nice and right of us to come and thank you in person."
Ashley: Well, I'm so glad you did. How in the world did you find out that I was here?
Matt: Johann and Astra turn their heads to JB, and JB goes, "Well, I'm keeping tabs on what you've been doing. There had been word that you not only helped with the reconstruction of Emon, but you've also been traveling to and from Whitestone since the Conclave attacked the continent, so we narrowed it down between a few possibilities, and based on the fact that you, Percival-- this is your city, is that correct? We figured that given that basis, we had a good chance. We passed through Westruun and could not find you. Wilhand, however, did say that you're doing well, and we eventually made our way east, and here we are. It's good to see you."
Ashley: It's good to see you.
Travis: Do me next. What have I done?
Matt: "You're Grog Strongjaw. Yes. You're the one that apparently replaced me."
Ashley: Well--
Travis: Huh?
Matt: "You grew up together once we were not, and you're a strong half-giant of a man. The beard confuses me, but you've done many great things, I suppose. The rest of you, it is an honor to meet you. I've heard so much, and it's rare you get to meet heroes in your lifetime." (shouting) "What? I'm still hungry!"
Travis: They're so nice. I feel terrible.
Ashley: Are you guys just passing through? Where's your next destination?
Matt: Johann pops up and goes, "We're always passing through, my dear, but we figured we'd just stay for a few days. However long it takes to get to know you a little better, and then we'll be on our way."
Marisha: Did he say weeks? Did he slip that in?
Matt: "We could stay weeks, if you'd like!"
Laura: Well, you know, days might be more--
Travis: As long as you need.
Matt: "We've been traveling. We're very tired."
Travis: Pike's family is our family, really.
Sam: Agreed.
Liam: I just want to get a vibe on them. I want to do an insight check and see what I think of them.
Marisha: Can I assist him on that?
Matt: Insight you can't-- you have to make an individual insight check.
Marisha: Individuals?
Liam: Oh, jeebus. Crap. 13.
Marisha: 26.
Matt: Okay. They're hard to read, in general. They're strange. They're interesting. They're unique. But they seem to be jovial and full of personality. You get a very familiar vibe as you did with Dr. Dranzel's troupe.
Travis: Could I request one thing? Could I have a hug?
Matt: From?
Travis: Yeah, all of you at once!
Sam: A bunch of kittens on a man.
Matt: They look at each other. Johann, and then Astra rushes in. They both give you a hug, and then Astra goes, "Uncle Ogden!" She grabs Ogden and (yelps) comes over and, "I'm confused." He's being held against you, really, and you watch as JB approaches and pats you.
Travis: It's okay.
Ashley: JB? Can I talk to you for just a minute?
Matt: "Of course."
Ashley: Just step outside on the outdoor bench.
Matt: She follows you out there. "You look so pretty."
Ashley: Oh, thank you.
Matt: "You've done so many good things. I've heard so many good things. It's so good to see you."
Ashley: It's very good to see you. How have you been?
Matt: "Well, I've been watching Ogden. Traveling and seeing the sights of the countrysides of Tal'Dorei. It's life on the road."
Ashley: I know. I understand that. How are my parents?
Matt: She looks around and goes, "Well, we haven't heard from your immediate side of the family since your bastard father left for Wynandia across the sea. Good riddance. No offense."
Ashley: No. None taken.
Matt: "That was a long time ago. I was young. But no, seriously. You're not missing much with them."
Ashley: Can I insight check her?
Matt: Go for it.
Ashley: Oh no. 13?
Matt: 13? She seems guarded and hard to read, but legit.
Ashley: Okay. Well. Have you guys, in your travels-- you know who Scanlan Shorthalt is, I'm sure?
Matt: She lights up and goes, "Yes, I've heard of him. Is he around?"
Ashley: He's not around.
Matt: "Oh. Okay, but I've heard of him. I've heard of his exploits. (chuckles) As I've asked around, he's left quite a trail of ladies through the years."
Ashley: He definitely has.
Matt: "They have a lot to say about him."
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: "Bit of a scoundrel, that one."
Ashley: Such a scoundrel.
Laura: God, she's so weird. (laughter)
Laura: It makes me so uncomfortable.
Ashley: All right, well, let's go back inside.
Matt: "Of course. I'm glad we had this bonding time."
Ashley: Me, too.
Matt: "You want to come, right?" She grabs your arms and tugs a little bit. You get a very faint sense of mild arrested development that makes you a little uncomfortable.
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: She walks inside with you with her arm on your shoulder, and as you come back inside, the hug seems to have pulled away from Grog for a second, but the laughter is billowing from the room, and Johann, at this point, is mid-story to Grog. "And that's the craziest thing! She was so small, but could yet poop so much."
Travis: I love it!
Matt: "It's incredible!"
Travis: That's my favorite kind of people. Big pooper!
Matt: "If we could have painted a picture, you wouldn't know where she put it away! But that's another story."
Ashley: Oh, well, we don't need to keep saying these things. You know, if you guys would like to stay just for a few days, because we're going to be leaving.
Travis: No, we're not. We're here for a long time.
Ashley: We have a lot of stuff to do.
Laura: Trip coming up.
Matt: "Of course! Days. Weeks was invited here, of course, but--"
Laura: She doesn't actually live here.
Marisha: I'm a guest, foreigner, just like you. Passing through. Traveling on.
Ashley: I think we have a thing that we have to go fight, and we have so many things that we have to do.
Travis: We just got done fighting all the things. We're settling here.
Laura: (groans)
Ashley: We have some things planned.
Matt: Astra steps forward and takes your hand and she goes, "It's all right, dear. We're not going to stay longer to make it uncomfortable. I'm sorry about these folks."
Ashley: No, no.
Matt: "I married into the Trickfoots. I'm not bound to the same ridiculousness as these guys, so don't worry."
Ashley: Okay.
Marisha: Can I insight check that?
Matt: Sure.
Marisha: I don't trust your "married in this bullshit" shit. 20, total.
Matt: 20 total?
Taliesin: Yeah!
Laura: I bet she's at the helm!
Taliesin: Happy new year, everybody.
Laura: I don't like her winking at Percy!
Taliesin: While we're whispering about things--
Sam: We have a great new shirt in the store. It says Vox Machina.
Laura: (silly accent) If you could get a close-up, you would see all of the Vox Machina's made of a different weapon that Vox Machina uses.
Taliesin: That was amazing.
Ashley: Well, why don't you guys stay in my place, and I'll take care of you guys while you're here? Just explore the town, and when we're getting ready to go, I'll let you know, and you guys can go on your merry way.
Matt: "That sounds fantastic."
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: "It's so happy to have the Trickfoots together again."
Ashley: It's just so great.
Matt: "So where are we all staying?"
Ashley: Well, you can stay at my place.
Matt: "Fantastic! Wondrous. Show us along! We have things to unload."
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: Do you want to grab any of the last bit of pastries for the day? Obviously, free treats today.
Sam: Oh, but don't fill up, because I assume we're all going to have dinner tonight together, right?
All: Yeah.
Ashley: Yeah, let's have dinner.
Matt: "Wonderful. I love it. I love it!"
Laura: Free treats today! Just today. Just today, free treats for the family. After that, no free treats.
Matt: As you're saying this, Uncle Ogden has stepped forward again and JB is like, "Uncle Ogden?" He (grunts) and reaches out and finds the edge of your cheek and chin and he drops his cane, pulls his glasses off, and you see these tiny, dark beady eyes between the wrinkles and he goes, "Pike."
Ashley: Hi.
Matt: "It's so good to see you."
Ashley: It's so good to see you.
Matt: "Thank you. You're a good one." He puts his glasses back on and reaches out, and JB picks up a stick and hands it to him. He's like, "Thank you."
Ashley: Thank you, Uncle Ogden.
Laura: Does it look like he really needs that cane?
Matt: You want to make an insight check? (laughter)
Matt: Sure, go for it.
Travis: Kick the cane out, see what happens. Do you need this? Boom!
Laura: I think it looks like he really needs it.
Matt: You genuinely feel bad for even having that second thought. (laughter)
Laura: I do. I feel really terrible.
Sam: In my broken Gnome, I tell him  it's an honor to mate you. (laughter)
Matt: His head spins for a second. He smiles, and in Gnomish back to you, he says, "Oh. It's been a while."
Sam: I love him.
Ashley: Well, should we get some dinner? Are you guys hungry, or have you filled up on pastries?
Matt: "Oh!" You watch as Johann spits out the pastry. "Always hungry!"
Ashley: Okay, great. Well, let's have a delicious dinner.
Marisha: We could always go hunting for our dinner. Classic way.
Laura: That's how we do it in Whitestone. You have to hunt if you want to eat. That's how we do it here.
Matt: "Is that how you got your pastries?"
Laura: Well, hunting for any kind of meat. Pastries you pay for.
Ashley: For the meat pies.
Matt: "Well, we're not hunters, so I guess we'll stay here until you finish hunting. You know we're not hunters. We've never been hunters. Trickfoots don't hunt."
Ashley: We can-- (sighs).
Sam: Let's go freshen up for dinner.
Ashley: We'll go freshen up for dinner.
Matt: "Not a bad idea. I could use a bath, actually. How about you, Astra?" Astra's like, "Oh, I'd love a bath right now. I've been on the road for so long." And JB goes, "Uncle could really use a bath."
Ashley: Uncle could use a bath, I know.
Travis: He could. He smells like cheese.
Ashley: All right. I'll walk you guys. Let's walk to my place.
Matt: "Very well. Show us along!"
Laura: I want to whisper to you as we walk back to the house: don't give them any more free things, all right?
Sam: What? I thought they were Pike's people.
Laura: Yeah, they're great. They're wonderful, but no more free stuff. Just today, but no more after that.
Sam: Okay. Of course. I'm sorry if I was out of line.
Laura: Of course not. You're so generous.
Sam: I love you.
Laura: I love you so much.
Liam: I'm hooking Kiki by the arm. Hey, you've got that look in your eye.
Marisha: I just don't like it when people try to take advantage of my friends, but they're family, and if anyone is in need, I don't want to potentially put them out.
Liam: But you think they're a little bit hinky? That's a yes.
Marisha: We can just keep an eye out. I'm protective.
Taliesin: Pike, if you need anything, just let me know. And I completely understand the awkward position you're currently being put in.
Ashley: Oh god, it's so awkward! I just don't know. Thank you, Percy. I'll let you know if there's anything that I need.
Taliesin: Keep an eye on the odd one.
Ashley: Which one? Because they're all odd.
Taliesin: JB. She reminds me of me at that age. That's not a good thing.
Marisha: I say to Vax  Just keep an eye on the odd one, all right?
Taliesin: See if you notice an interest.
Travis: Pike, are there any more coming?
Taliesin: If you notice an interest in that one, please let me know. Maybe I could figure out what she's interested in and show her around, maybe.
Ashley: Okay. That's a great idea. So this is all of you, then, that came? You guys have been traveling around, just yourselves?
Travis: Got any more of you coming?
Matt: "Not coming with us. The Trickfoots tend to scatter on their own."
Travis: Like bunnies.
Matt: "Yeah, sure. We'll go with that one. Yeah, not everyone can be trusted in the family."
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: "It's frustrating. The people that you care for and spend your life hitting behind betray that trust, and good riddance to them."
Ashley: Oh. Well, is there anything you would like to see while you're here?
Matt: They all look back at JB, who lights up again and goes, "Everything."
Ashley: Okay. Well, is there anyone in particular you would like to give you a tour?
Matt: JB is like, "Well, I--" And Johann goes, "I feel like if we don't choose him, we're going to get squashed." (laughter)
Matt: You can see a moment of heartbreak and JB goes, "Very well."
Travis: Yes!
Matt: "Mr. Strongjaw, you may show us around."
Travis: Yeah. You won't regret that choice.
Ashley: All right, come with me. You can come to my place, freshen up before dinner, and we'll have a great time.
Matt: "Great! Great. Now, to the baths. How big are your baths? Are they huge? Are they human-sized baths? Are they bigger than human-sized baths?"
Liam: Not quite big enough. (laughter)
Laura: You don't know.
Matt: "You!" All right, so you show them up to the castle, which I assume is where you're letting them stay.
Laura: They're staying in the castle?
Taliesin: The guards have generally been alerted to be wary, kind, polite, and less important that they stop them from doing anything too terrible, more to the point that they just write it down and report it immediately. (laughter)
Taliesin: Unless anyone's doing something terrible, or going somewhere they really shouldn't.
Matt: Right. Okay. That information is easily distributed throughout the Pale Guard, without issue.
Liam: "I guess that silverware wasn't so important."
Taliesin: Oh, we're bringing out the moderate silverware.
Ashley: That's a good idea. That's a great idea.
Laura: All the good silver is hidden. Hidden up high.
Matt: Because there are only within the castle at any given time, four baths. Four rooms that contain full baths. Occasionally, you have to wait for a person, but they immediately scatter. Three of them are taken.
Ashley: Okay. We might have to wait a little bit.
Matt: You wait a while. Eventually, they one by one start making their way down to the main banquet hall of the castle. Cleaned up. You watch as Johann comes down, wearing his same clothing that appears to have been cleaned. "Wow! I'm appreciative that you have servants here that can do such a nice job with such fine family threads." His mustache is done perfectly. His hair is still slick and wet from the bath, combed over. "Well, thank you. It's in the blood."
Ashley: (chuckles) It sure is.
Matt: He turns around. "Astra? What's taking her so long?" Walks back out to the stairway and rushes past the guards, his little gnomish head dodging by their knees, almost. He goes, (shouting) "Astra!" You hear a voice go, (shouting) "I'm almost done! Wait and be patient!" He goes back. "She'll be down in a moment. Don't worry. In the meantime, is there an appetizer course?"
Ashley: Sure. Why don't you take a seat, and order whatever you want, on me.
Matt: "You're so generous!" He pinches your cheek. He waltzes over to the table, sits down and grabs the fork and knife. "Two bottles of red, and... ooh, what vintage have you?" He begins talking with the servants about what various wines are available.
Laura: I'm just going to pop into the kitchen.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And tell the staff in the kitchen obviously, you can make whatever you want. I'm just hoping maybe you don't make it too tasty tonight. Nothing too extravagant. You know, nice, but average. Right?
Matt: The servants that are there, the whole waitstaff and kitchen staff go, "Of course, milady."
Laura: Nothing great.
Matt: "A curious request, but one we will fulfill to our greatest ability."
Laura: Thank you so much. Lots of salad, lots of very dry, hard meat. Turnips. Lots of turnips.
Taliesin: Heavy food.
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: I'm going to pop into the kitchen after she's done. (laughter)
Sam: All right, family's here tonight, so everything has to be on its best, all right? The best stuff we have in this kitchen. These are Trickfoots. We have to treat them right, and we have to treat them well.
Matt: The staff stops and goes, "Friend Taryon, I'm sorry, but the lady requested specifically that the meal not be--"
Sam: What lady?
Matt: "Lady Vex'ahlia."
Sam: She was being polite. These are good people. They need to be treated--
Matt: Make a persuasion check. You're asking them to override the word of the lady of the house. SAM One. (laughter)
Matt: He goes, "I am sorry, but--"
Sam: Who's your manager?
Matt: "The lady you're speaking about."
Sam: Oh, you're right. She is your manager.
Liam: Tary, you have Luck!
Taliesin: Back to the pool house with you.
Sam: I do have Luck.
Laura: (groans) No!
Sam: What am I doing?
Matt: Persuasion.
Laura: No.
Sam: That's 24.
Taliesin: Oh!
Matt: He goes, "But if you say it's the word of Lady Vex'ahlia--"
Sam: These are Trickfoots, man. Trickfoots! Treat them as you would your own mother.
Matt: "I'm so confused. We'll do our best. Holy shit." You see this internal struggle. "Everyone! Fine meat's back on the menu. Sorry." And the staff goes, (groans) and starts throwing shit out that they were halfway working on and starting from scratch.
Sam: I go out and grab Vex. Little EG, what are you doing? You told them to give them bad food tonight? These are Trickfoots! We have to treat them with honor and respect.
Laura: Tary! Ugh.
Taliesin: You said what?
Laura: Okay, look. All right. If your father came, and you dislike him very much, right?
Sam: I would give him the best.
Laura: Oh shit. Okay, bad comparison. These people suck. They're mean--
Sam: What are you talking about? They've been nothing but nice. They've showered her with kisses and affection. It's affection that I've never even seen in a family before!
Laura: Tary, dear. Darling. They don't treat her very well, and they'll use her, and they'll stay here and keep taking advantage of her, and we don't want that.
Sam: But I get to practice my Gnome.
Laura: Well, that's true. You can practice as much as you want over the next couple of days, but we don't want to impress them. The more they like it, the longer they'll stay.
Taliesin: They'll figure out that the poor food-- I feel like they're clever enough for that one. Best to feed them well, at least.
Laura: Really?
Taliesin: I know.
Sam: I'll back off.
Laura: Thank you.
Taliesin: Continue to be charming.
Sam: Always.
Travis: I walk into the kitchen. I go, okay. Listen up! I need peanut butter, I need turkey legs, eggs, cheese. (laughter)
Sam: "Those are all the foods I know."
Travis: Chop chop!
Matt: The servants all stop and go, (sighs). "Yes, Grand Poobah." (laughter)
Matt: Throw out what they were finishing and begin to make eggs, getting the cheese ready, and all the hearty pork meats. And the peanut butter.
Marisha: It's a Charlie Brown Thanksgiving.
Laura: Spaghetti-Os.
Marisha: Popcorn.
Ashley: Just great. I run over to Percy really quickly. (whispering) Percy?
Taliesin: Yes?
Ashley: I just wanted to... apologize in advance for whatever may happen in the next few days.
Taliesin: I'm so excited for the calamity that's about to be brought down upon my house.
Ashley: Okay.
Taliesin: There is nothing, short of full dragon apocalypse at this point, that could faze us. We can live through this. We'll be fine.
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: I come up and I give her a hug from behind and say: We will never judge you for your blood, dear.
Ashley: Okay. Again, I'm not embarrassed.
Laura: Of course not. They're great. They seem wonderful.
Ashley: Yeah. Yeah, they do.
Taliesin: To be fair, I've also already started drinking.
Ashley: Oh great. Okay, I'll join you.
Taliesin: I pull out the flask of Courage that I've brought.
Sam: Flask of Courage?
Laura: You got more Courage?
Taliesin: Oh, there's a lot of Courage. We make it every year.
Ashley: I take a big gulp. All the gulps.
Matt: It burns. It burns so good.
Ashley: (grunts)
Taliesin: It burns a lot.
Ashley: It does.
Taliesin: You're going to get drunk, but you're not going to get sleepy.
Laura: Oh, that's going to feel good in this area.
Travis: You won't get sleepy.
Taliesin: Let's do this.
Ashley: Let's go eat.
Matt: As you guys all find yourselves ready, the Trickfoots also begin to fill in to the banquet hall. The servants provide a fantastic spread of heartily cooked pork meats, peanut butter fresh from the jar, piles of cheeses.
Laura: I thought you asked--
Sam: This is not what I asked for.
Ashley: This is comfort food in Whitestone.
Taliesin: We thought we would give you the cornucopia of our experience.
Laura: I take a big spoon of peanut butter.
Matt: Johann gives a curious eye and goes, "Well, who are we to scoff at the cultures of others? Let's dig in, everyone!" And immediately he goes in. Astra begins eating, as well. JB takes a bite and then prepares a bite for Uncle Ogden, who is in the process of staring at the table strangely. Eventually the spoon finds its way there.
Taliesin: Well, that's the next 30 minutes.
Matt: As this is happening, Johann begins asking questions. "So! This is your castle?"
Ashley: Is this my castle?
Matt: JB is like, "No, it's not her castle. It's his castle. She's just staying here, for now."
Taliesin: Technically, it's my sister's castle, but certainly.
Matt: At which point, Cassandra comes in from the back, arms crossed. She wanders in. "Brother?"
Taliesin: That's code. Yes?
Matt: "Everything all right, brother?"
Taliesin: Yes, fine.
Matt: "Very well, I'll be in my chambers if you require anything."
Laura: You're sure you don't want to join us, Cass?
Matt: "I'm fine. I'm a bit tired. It's been a long night. But whoever you are, welcome to Whitestone." She looks back to Percival.
Taliesin: The Trickfoot clan.
Matt: "Ah."
Marisha: And Keyleth goes-- ASHLEY If she looks over at me, I'm going--
Matt: "I would love to welcome you all to Whitestone. You are guests of ours if you are guests of hers. We'll talk later."
Taliesin: Absolutely.
Matt: She makes her way back up the stairs. You watch as Trish, who's her bodyguard on this shift, follows her up.
Laura: She's still here? Trish.
Ashley: Trish the Dish.
Travis: Trish the Dish.
Matt: She's one of two shift personal guards of Cassandra.
Ashley: I'm going to sit next to Ogden.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: JB, I can feed him for a little bit if you'd like to look around or something, or talk to anybody here? Who do you really want to talk to?
Matt: "You. We have so much to catch up on. It's been a long time."
Ashley: Is there someone in Vox Machina that you really love?
Matt: She looks around. There's this long, awkward pause as she keeps looking over Vox Machina again and again, but not making any eye contact with Grog, and eventually goes, "I suppose Lady Vex'ahlia." Hands the spoon over to you.
Ashley: Okay. Well, I'm sure she would love to talk to you. She's very inviting, very friendly.
Matt: "Should I just go sit?"
Ashley: Sure.
Matt: "Okay." She gets up from the table. Johann's still talking. He's telling stories. "We Trickfoots. For generations, we've been problem-solvers. We rove from place to place, solving problems across the countrysides. If you have a squeaky wheel, we fix the wheel. If you have a squeaky door, we fix the door."
Travis: Amazing.
Matt: "If you have a squeaky tax man, we fix the tax man. That's a joke! That's a joke. You can laugh. See, there you are."
Travis: They kill the tax man.
Sam: Everybody hates taxes.
Matt: As this conversation's happening, there's a small bowl of what looks to be some of the pork, but it's been soaked in some water or wine, and it's been mashed or pre-chewed. You're not quite sure. But you have the spoon there, and you have Uncle Ogden sitting there going--
Ashley: I start speaking to him in Underdark because I haven't spoken that in a while. Ogden? How are you liking traveling with everybody? With Johann and Astra and JB?
Matt: His ear perks up a little bit and he goes, "I haven't heard that talk in a long time." His head turns slightly towards you, but he's still looking off a little bit from under the glasses.
Sam: Is this Undercommon?
Ashley: Underdark.
Sam: Underdark?
Matt: It would be considered Undercommon.
Ashley: It's Undercommon? Okay.
Sam: I'm listening.
Laura: I'm reading their lips.
Matt: Do you understand Undercommon? Okay, then yeah. He looks back and goes, "It's been travel. They take care of me. We're here now." His hand reaches over and grabs your hand and holds it for a second. He goes, "We're here now to protect you."
Ashley: Protect me from what?
Matt: "From the curse."
Ashley: What do you mean?
Matt: "I've been having visions of you. An angel of light swallowed by dark."
Ashley: Okay. Are these just dreams?
Matt: "They come often, and the dreams that come often generally come to pass. There is a curse in our blood, and we wish to save you from that curse." His fingers tighten a little bit on your hand. Not in a painful way, but an emphatic hold. "I'm worried for you. You're the only good one." His hand releases your hand. He drools a little bit and wipes it with his hand. (laughter)
Ashley: I take a spoon of peanut butter. It's a little bit easier. Here you go.
Sam: Like Mr. Ed.
Ashley: Yep.
Matt: It dribbles out a little bit. "Unexpected."
Ashley: Sorry, the mix between the pork and peanut butter. It's an interesting mix, but it's Grog's favorite.
Matt: "It's good."
Ashley: It's a good mix!
Matt: You see him smiling now.
Ashley: Can you tell me about Astra? How did she come into the picture?
Matt: "Astra met Johann about ten years ago. He needed someone to nail him down. Spry, wily, prone to terrible choices. He's a stupid boy. Stupid, stupid boy." At which point, Johann, who's been talking, stops and goes, in Undercommon, "I can hear you, Dad. Anyway!" "She's good to him. If she breaks his heart, I'll kill her."
Ashley: There you go. And any word from my family? My mother, anything? It's been a long time since I talked to them.
Matt: "They absconded east and got in a little trouble."
Ashley: That makes sense.
Matt: "It's just like my brother to do that. He's the one who held the stupid gene on our generation."
Ashley: Yep.
Matt: "I'm tired now."
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: At which point, JB, who's been over there talking with you and asking questions about the castle and what accommodations there are, sees Uncle Ogden get up. "Oh, Uncle, I'll help you. I'm so sorry, Lady Vex'ahlia." She stands up and walks around and grabs the elbow. "Uncle Ogden, are you tired?"
Ashley: I can have someone take him, if you'd like to stay?
Matt: "He's very fragile. If you'd trust anyone to take him?"
Laura: I can do it, dear.
Ashley: Well. Yeah. You would like to stay with him?
Matt: "It's what I'm used to, but if Lady Vex'ahlia--"
Laura: I would love to. I think your cousin wants to speak with you.
Ashley: Great.
Matt: At which point, as soon as you say that, she smiles brightly and goes, "Actually, yes."
Laura: Yes.
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: Be on your guard, dear.
Ashley: Okay, I will. Check your pockets.
Laura: Always.
Matt: She sits down next to you and begins asking about, "I can't believe that you stepped into the same ridiculousness that Wilhand did and it's brought you all this. We just thought he was an old coot."
Ashley: Well, he's all I've known and he's wonderful. He's my family, since I left, and I'm sorry I haven't really contacted you guys.
Matt: "It's all right. We make ourselves scarce on purpose."
Ashley: Yeah. Well, so you've been taking care of Ogden?
Matt: "We've been helping out, but mostly me, yeah."
Ashley: Has he told you anything that he dreams about?
Matt: You can see that she stiffens up a little bit. "So he's already told you."
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: "I don't want to ruin an evening that's going so well, but he's had visions. I'm worried about you. When we got your letter that-- we didn't know how to find you. We didn't think that you were in the area. When your letter found us, we thought maybe you weren't that far away, so we began to search our way along the Silver Cut."
Ashley: Okay. Can I insight check her again?
Matt: Yeah, go for it.
Ashley: I can't figure out what's going on. Ugh, balls. Oh, wait. 16?
Matt: She's hard to read, in general. Even when she was a kid, she was an odd duck. She seems genuine.
Ashley: Okay. Well, how's everybody feeling? Are you tired? Are you full? Is it bedtime? What's going on?
Sam: I could talk to these people all night long.
Ashley: Well.
Sam: But if we should turn in?
Matt: You see Astra, who's been drinking deep of one of the two fine bottles of red wine, is drunkenly leaning with her arm around Johann's arm. He's a little tipsy, but he's still in conversation, talking to Grog. He's telling embarrassing story after embarrassing story, and since you're so eager and no one else really wants to pay him as much mind. He's talking to the table, but he's mainly focusing on you.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: As you begin helping Ogden, who, as you grab his arm, he's shaking, and he has his cane as he moves along. His skin is very loose.
Laura: Ogden, would you like me to help carry you, or are you all right to walk?
Matt: "I can walk under my own power."
Laura: Of course you can. Feel free to lean on me, though.
Matt: "At the stairs."
Laura: All right.
Matt: He's still looking off. As soon as you get to the stairs, he gets about two steps and has to stop and breathe, and another two stairs.
Laura: I put my arm down so he can put as much weight as he wants.
Matt: He leans into it and you eventually help him up the staircase that spirals up to the second floor and eventually lead him to his chambers.
Laura: All right, and I start talking to him on the way to his room in Undercommon. And ask him: How long have you guys been on the road?
Matt: "Always."
Laura: Always?
Matt: "By nature, we don't really put down roots." Big old smile as he says roots, darkened, some broken teeth. Heinous smell.
Laura: Peanut butter and pork.
Matt: Yep.
Laura: I couldn't help but overhear you talking to Pike about dreams you've been having.
Matt: "Yes. Dreams."
Laura: What kind of dreams?
Matt: "Terrible premonitions."
Laura: Like what?
Matt: At this point, he stops and looks up towards you as you're holding his arm, and he reaches up and pulls the glasses shakily from the front of his face and through his small dark brown beady eyes, you see the whites at the sides are bloodshot. He glances up and goes, "The kinds of dreams that end a bloodline."
Laura: Well, that sounds terrible.
Matt: "We're trying to find a way to stop it."
Laura: Well, that's good. I would like to stop it, as well. We all love Pike very much.
Matt: "Good. Then we came at the right time."
Laura: Can I insight check him?
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: That was almost. 21? 21.
Sam: Whispers!
Laura: Yes!
Sam: So, Taliesin, what's the V? What's the V on this shirt?
Taliesin: The V on this shirt?
Liam: It's a book.
Taliesin: That looks to be a tome of some sort.
Sam: Who is represented by a book?
Liam: The whole top row is reserved for Matthew.
Sam: Oh, okay. And what's the M in Machina?
Taliesin: It appears to be some sort of very naturalistic bow and arrow.
Sam: Who would that correspond to?
Taliesin: Scanlan, I imagine.
Sam: Oh, yeah. That makes sense. And the A?
Taliesin: The A appears to be a bird's mask and a pistol.
Sam: Also Scanlan.
Taliesin: Also Scanlan.
Sam: Yeah, sure. And the C?
Taliesin: The C is some sort of natural wooden crest of some kind.
Liam: That's Grog taint.
Sam: Oh.
Taliesin: In fact, this is entirely Grog and Scanlan, which I think, it's about time.
Laura: Well, Ogden. Are you all right getting into your bed? Do you need any help with that?
Matt: "If you can get me to the edge of it, I can manage."
Laura: Well, of course. I hope you know that we're here for you, with whatever you need, as long as we're all here to help Pike. We love her like family, as well.
Matt: "Good. She can use some family."
Laura: Yes. Dark tidings.
Matt: "Dark tidings, indeed."
Laura: Are we talking like falling into a pit or are we talking like-- I'm going to walk him to the bed and maybe like--
Matt: (raspy grunt) He gets up and leans the stick off to the side, and it (thudding noise) onto the ground.
Laura: I'll crouch down and start untying his little boots.
Matt: "That's all right. I can get that."
Laura: I don't mind.
Matt: He leans back and lets you do it.
Laura: What kind of dark things are we talking?
Matt: "There's a legend in the Trickfoots. Every generation, one is born with the blood curse. One that carries with it the anger of someone slighted when we first became Trickfoots. Maybe it's superstition, but every one of these individuals died a horrible, painful death, screaming of a shadow that came for them. It's a myth, I know, but these dreams are real, and I'd rather be careful and wrong than careless and right."
Laura: Do you see the shadow in your dreams?
Matt: "Shapeless. Dark. Eyes like burning coals."
Laura: Does that sound like the smoke demon that we saw come out of Percy? Anything like that?
Matt: Shapeless, black shadow with red eyes sounds similar, but Orthax was generally black smoke. Had form, and the eyes were more of a yellow.
Taliesin: The John Doe of demons, really.
Laura: All right. How long have you been having these dreams?
Matt: "Months."
Laura: Have you ever witnessed it happen before? Have you had the dreams about anyone else?
Matt: "Only once. I was very young."
Laura: And they died.
Matt: "My brother."
Laura: Really?
Matt: Theobold.
Laura: And do you know who it is the Trickfoots slighted in this myth?
Matt: "I don't know. This whole family is paranoid and guards their secrets from each other. Anyway."
Laura: I wish you a dreamless sleep. And he's out. (laughter)
Liam: Random question. Do we see an obvious family resemblance with Pike and any of them?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: They all have a giant birthmark on their face. (laughter)
Liam: 24.
Matt: As you've been paying attention to them most of dinner. Mannerisms, everything. There are some similarities.
Liam: Facial features, I mean.
Matt: Yeah. They're not direct family. They're cousins, uncle-- they're once removed from her central nuclear family. But you do see similarities in cheekbone structure, at least with Johann, Ogden, and JB. Moreso with JB. It's hard with the mustache with Johann. But there are some similarities between JB and Pike, and you can't help but envision these two cute little gnome children playing together. These two dark-haired female gnomes running around, and there may have been an age when they could have been hard to tell apart from each other.
Laura: Ooh.
Sam: Swapped at birth?
Laura: I know, right?
Marisha: Freaky Friday!
Ashley: Oh man. Okay.
Matt: As Johann picks up Astra. "Anyway, it's been a fantastic meal. I appreciate your hospitality, and I look forward to this grand tour you promised tomorrow."
Travis: Oh, yeah. Anything you want to see, as long as you've got more of those stories.
Matt: "Oh, I've got loads."
Taliesin: I'm going to sneak next to JB really quickly.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: If you want a more proper and private tour of the city, consider the offer open. Just think about where you'd want to start. The offer does stand, though. Have a good evening.
Matt: As you say this to her, she glances back and says, "Very well. Under the needs of being upfront, as well, I want you to know that I'm not interested." (laughter)
Travis: Thank you. That's what it totally sounded like.
Laura: It did sound like you were fucking flirting.
Travis: You want a proper tour of deez nuts? (laughter)
Taliesin: I don't think he's figured out what she's talking about.
Matt: I don't think he has, either, no.
Taliesin: Oh. I'm sorry, I thought that maybe you'd want to see the-- and the-- oh. Very well, then.
Matt: She looks over at Grog and goes, "Perhaps a tour is in order, but just no. I'm not interested."
Taliesin: In the tour?
Matt: "In the tour, yes."
Taliesin: Oh! Yeah. I mean, no. Yes. No. (laughter)
Liam: Smooth as butter.
Matt: She gets up and walks away. "Good night, everyone. Good night, Pike."
Taliesin: How did she do that?
Matt: Eventually, all the gnomes have left and you're all there, dumbfounded, at the dinner table.
Laura: I come back down.
Ashley: Check your pockets! Check your pockets.
Laura: I had no valuables on me at all.
Sam: I have everything that I own on me. Am I missing anything?
Laura: I check my hair to make sure my brooch is still in it.
Marisha: I check my pouch and make sure my antlers are still there.
Matt: You guys scan through, pat yourselves down. Everything's in place.
Sam: I think they're lovely.
Marisha: And I liked seeing you being bested. Regardless of the people, it's still fun seeing you being bested.
Taliesin: Cheap shot, at best.
Liam: You are very different from them.
Ashley: Yes.
Liam: They are quirky.
Laura: I mean, you're quirky.
Ashley: Yeah, but I mean, I haven't seen them in a very long time. Since I was but a kid.
Liam: Why did Pom-Pom take you out of there?
Ashley: Well, because he was different and had a different life plan and because he became a cleric and was the first of-- I don't know how far back. I don't even know.
Liam: And older than all of them.
Ashley: Yeah. And he saw that I was and decided-- we left. He took me when I was little, and we left. There was a lot that happened, but I didn't know where they were because they travel.
Liam: They just got here, but what's your feel on this?
Ashley: I don't know. I heard some things with some discussions I had tonight, and I need to figure out if they're true or not. We'll figure out in the next few days, just to see what's going on.
Sam: This dream that the old one talked about, does that worry you?
Ashley: How do you know about that?
Liam: You don't know that.
Laura: He does. He was listening in.
Liam: Oh, that's right.
Laura: I actually talked to him a little bit about that, as well.
Ashley: You did?
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: A dream? What dream?
Ashley: What did he say?
Laura: He said that there was a thing in your family. A blood curse. He seemed honest enough when he was saying it. Said that people paid the price for a slight someone made a long time ago, and certain members of your family are cursed, and he's had these premonitions, these dreams, before. It was his brother who passed away a long time ago.
Ashley: Yes, this is a thing.
Laura: Have you heard about this?
Matt: You haven't because you haven't been with most of the Trickfoots for most of your life.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: You've been with Wilhand since you were very young. You said six. He's not been eager to talk about the family. You can see he resents the Trickfoot clan, so you haven't heard of this, but you also know very little about them.
Laura: Wilhand never discussed it with you?
Marisha: No premonitions of a curse from Wilhand?
Ashley: He didn't talk about the family. He wanted to be separate from them and he didn't want me to be influenced by them at all.
Marisha: Hang on. I don't mean to question everything, but Wilhand defected from the whole family and became a cleric, but he never mentioned anything of a curse? Why did he become a cleric?
Taliesin: I see your reasoning.
Marisha: That seems like a dichotomy there.
Taliesin: It actually makes perfect sense to me.
Travis: He likes helping people.
Marisha: Or he's terrified of some superstitious curse. Maybe both?
Ashley: Maybe both.
Liam: We trust you, and Wilhand raised you, so Wilhand must have his head screwed on straight.
Taliesin: I'm going to say you're in a room of people who were raised by-- at least 60 percent of the time, ridiculous people who have their head screwed on straight.
Marisha: That's accurate.
Laura: Maybe we should ask him about it?
Liam: That's where I was going. Is there any merit in trying to get a hold of Wilhand right now, while they're here?
Ashley: Can we, from here?
Matt: He's in Westruun right now. It is also late in the evening.
Marisha: I can get us anywhere very quickly.
Sam: Tomorrow we should go visit him?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah. I don't think they're going to burn down the castle.
Laura: Maybe while they're taking a tour, we bamf to Westruun for just a minute.
Taliesin: I don't necessarily know if-- do you want to bamf, or do you just want to talk? We can probably just talk to him, or maybe we could have him sent for.
Liam: Do you remember our conversations with Wilhand when we were in Westruun?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Liam: They were a little squirrely.
Taliesin: I'm a little worried about leaving them here unattended.
Laura: Some of us can stay.
Marisha: I think it would be a half-and-half situation.
Laura: Split the party!
All: Split the party!
Ashley: We could. As you guys know, Wilhand is a little-- he's in his older years.
Laura: We'll try to keep it quick.
Ashley: But we could try to keep it quick.
Laura: In and out, ask him a few questions.
Marisha: And Wilhand is the brother of Ogden?
Laura: No.
Liam: No, he's older than that.
Matt: Yeah, Wilhand is older than Ogden.
Marisha: Wilhand's older than Ogden?!
Ashley: Wilhand's older than Ogden.
Marisha: I thought Ogden was as old as life itself!
Travis: No, Ogden did a lot of drugs when he was younger.
Laura: Ogden's had a hard life.
Sam: He's got to be at least 150 or 200 years old.
Matt: Ogden looks like he's older, but his physicality is not based on age as much as it's based on--
Marisha: He had a Mick Jagger lifestyle.
Matt: Something akin to that, I guess you'd say.
Marisha: All right.
Taliesin: Or at least a Tom Waits one.
Matt: Yeah.
Ashley: Let's circle back tomorrow.
Marisha: All right.
Ashley: And while they're doing the tour, maybe we can pop over real quick and I think that would be better than him seeing them here.
Liam: Even as an outsider, that seems a little ugh.
Ashley: Yeah.
Taliesin: Grog, you'll take the loud ones tomorrow and I'll take the quiet ones?
Travis: Wait, what? I thought I get them all.
Taliesin: Do you want to get them all?
Travis: Yeah, don't they want all to be on my tour?
Laura: Maybe you could do the tour together?
Marisha: Maybe you could do a Grog tour and then a Percy tour.
Liam: Or you could assist Grog.
Taliesin: Because you asked so nicely. Also, I was thinking the carpet might be a fine way of moving them around the city.
Laura: Oh! That is actually a wonderful idea.
Ashley: They would be pretty fascinated by that.
Laura: Quite distracted.
Liam: You know, the Grand Poobah needs an assistant.
Travis: Oh. Perhaps.
Liam: It's only befitting of your station that Percival aid you in such a fashion.
Travis: Yes. Quite.
Marisha: The two masters of the city. Of course.
Travis: My history of the city is unrivaled.
Taliesin: I will definitely agree that there are sections of this city I would absolutely agree that you are the master of, at this point.
Travis: Thank you. (laughter)
Taliesin: (sighs) It's going to be a lot of brothels and bars.
Marisha: "And this was my first hook-up, and this was the scene of my second hook-up."
Travis: Yeah. This is a big tree.
Matt: I'm excited for this.
Taliesin: I am so excited for this.
Matt: So, as you all eventually find yourselves resting for the evening, contemplating the plans to take first thing in the morning, we'll go ahead and close tonight's episode there. We'll pick this up next week.
Laura: Wait, you're not going to be here next week?
Ashley: I will. I'll just be a little late.
Marisha: Sprinting from the airport.
Ashley: Yeah.
Laura: Cool.
Taliesin: We'll do the tour first, while you guys are off freaking out with the--
Marisha: Bamfing?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: We'll stall if we need to. We'll make it happen. All righty, guys. Well, thank you so much for watching tonight. I hope you enjoyed it as much as we did.
Marisha: We're all a year older now!
Laura: Oh my gosh.
Marisha: We're older!
Travis: Grog is 14.
Matt: We'll be back here next Thursday, 7PM Pacific, as usual. Until then, have a wonderful weekend and is it Thursday yet? Good night, guys.
Marisha: Go buy t-shirts! [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons, or are a little late on the draw when shouting the phrase out, Travis Willingham. (laughs) Anyway, before we get into tonight's episode, let's go ahead and jump into our announcements. Let's see here, we've got a new game called Injustice 2 that just came out.
Travis: Yeah!
Ashley: Yeah!
Laura: Wait a minute. What is this Injustice 2 you speak of?
Travis: Is that the shapes and pie-making game that you play in the kitchen bakery?
Marisha: It's like Cooking Mama.
Laura: I watched a video today of you and you fighting, which was pretty exciting.
Matt: Yeah, we have all the Flashes covered, I think.
Taliesin: All of the Flashes are on this show.
Laura: That's crazy.
Matt: So who do you guys play?
Taliesin: I play Barry Allen.
Liam: I play Reverse-Flash. What's his name?
Taliesin: Eobard Thawne.
Liam: Right.
Laura: I play Supergirl!
Travis: I play Tim Garrick.
Taliesin: Jay Garrick.
Travis: Jay Garrick. I wear a tin pail for a helmet.
Matt: It's pretty slick.
Travis: The one Flash I don't know, really.
Matt: Next Halloween, man. Just saying. I'd love a picture of you wearing that hat.
Taliesin: Oh my god!
Ashley: Yes, please.
Matt: Please. It'll be great. And I play Deadshot. Yeah, check it out, it looks really good. They had us all do really intense facial motion capture which is even funnier, considering that my character wears a mask the whole time.
Travis: Did they really make you do that?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Travis: With a mask?
Matt: Well, not with a mask on my face, but yeah.
Taliesin: That would've been even better.
Matt: I assume there'll be a DLC costume where he doesn't have a mask, or they just did it to fuck with me, which I respect either way.
Travis: They're in the booth, going (whispers) we're not getting any of this!
Taliesin: Don't tell him! Let it roll.
Travis: Just draw a dick-butt on his forehead; it's fine.
Laura: Those bright lights are headache-inducing, yeah.
Matt: So check it out. It's out now, it's fun! What I've seen of it looks actually really cool.
Taliesin: I've played a little; it's fun.
Matt: They got their RPG in my fighting game, and that's right up my alley. All right, also, because it's coming up real fast, reminder, MomoCon, May 25th to the 28th. MoMocon! Taliesin, Marisha, myself, and Brian W. Foster are going to be there for a Talks Machina panel, as well as other events throughout the weekend, so look forward to seeing you there in Atlanta, Georgia, weekend after this one. Also, I will be at A-Kon once again, June 8th to the 11th in Fort Worth, Texas. Come say hello to me there. And then, remember that Talks Machina is live on Tuesdays at 7PM Pacific Time here on Twitch and Alpha. The submission email has changed, so to submit your gif and/or fanart of the week, use submit@talksmachina.com. So that is submit, submit! One submit, not two, that's just my psychosis. Submit@talksmachina.com. Yes. Anything else anyone wants to talk about, are we good? Move on to the game for the night.
Laura: Oh! Farpoint came out. So if you have PlayStation Virtual Reality System, then you can get Farpoint, and I play Dr. Eva Tyson on it, and it's actually a really freaking cool game.
Travis: It's fun, you shoot things with a gun. Do you have to get the gun for it?
Laura: You shoot things with a gun, and it was a really cool script and stuff. I liked the story a lot.
Liam: That's not how guns work.
Taliesin: Are we talking about next week?
Marisha: Are we talking about next week?
Matt: Oh, yeah, we should say that, too.
Marisha: That's a big one.
Matt: That wasn't on the list. So yeah. So we're missing two cast members next week.
Travis: Guess who's not here.
Matt: What? That's terrible.
Ashley: Hey!
Matt: But given the circumstance, instead, we're going to have a non-numbered episode next week, instead it looks like we're going to throw in for a new, higher-level battle royale for those who will be here to see how some of these high-level abilities function.
Marisha: You won't be there to put my face in lava this time! I'll just have myself to do that.
Ashley: I know, you guys, I won't be there, so.
Travis: Will Friedle won the first one, she won the last one.
Laura: I've never done it.
Sam: I've never done it, either.
Laura: Oh no. And you're doing it as Tary?
Matt: It's up to you; you get to choose.
Marisha: Are you going to bring back Scanlan?
Sam: All right, Taryon's going to die in like five seconds. (laughter)
Taliesin: So if we loot Tary's body, do we get all of his stuff?
Matt: It's not in canon.
Taliesin: No, even not in canon, in the game.
Matt: Oh, if you go to his body after he's dead, you can grab any of his shit to use it.
Taliesin: You are a loot drop, oh my god.
Matt: As long as it's not attunement, you can use it.
Laura: Is the helmet attuned? It is, isn't it?
Matt: I believe it is, yes.
Sam: Probably, yeah.
Laura: Too bad. But we can just steal all of his jewels just for the sake of it.
Matt: There you go. In the alternate universe version, you are just decked out.
Sam: Do I get Doty in the fight?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Okay. That helps.
Matt: And you'll be leveled up to their level.
Sam: And I'll be leveled up to their level?
Matt: For the battle royale, yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah, we level up for that.
Matt: Anyway, that'll be next week. That pushes our hundredth episode to June 8th. And it looks like we're confirmed for June 1st for our next guest, I believe.
Sam: Yes. Yes, we are. We are confirmed for that. Are we announcing that?
Matt: Yeah, sure. Yeah.
Sam: Oh, well, yeah, on June 1st, our next guest, Jon Heder AKA Napoleon Dynamite, is going to come play with us and roll some dice. Yeah.
Marisha: My mother has never been so proud of me.
Laura: So, did we already say that because next week is a battle royale, that means our hundredth episode--
Matt: Is pushed to the 8th, yes.
Laura: Okay, you already said that? Was I busy rolling dice and talking?
Matt: You were. But thank you, Laura. Good looking out. I appreciate that. So yeah, I think that's all the major news, and given that, let's go ahead and dive in to tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Hello and welcome back, everybody. So last time where we left off, Vox Machina, upon working on their bakery, the Slayer's Cake in Whitestone, made a possible new hire who turned out to be a drow bounty hunter named K'rynn, who was sent here to acquire Taryon Darrington and bring him back home to the city of Deastok In Wildmount. You guys all, through a series of high-level magic scrying and transportation, managed to cut off this specific bounty hunter on the outskirts of the city, and in doing so made an agreement to not slay her where she stood, and instead possibly make a transaction down the road. You guys then made your way into the city of Deastok to the Darrington Estate and were led up into the study of Howaardt Darrington, father of Taryon, in which you all discussed the reasons of why he was brought back, the current financial state of the family, and the intent to resolve and remedy long-standing sins of the father, through you standing up and doing your family duty, from his perspective. We left off as you guys had just finished that conversation. You've exited his study and were about to go about your business. Coming off the tension of the conversation, you closed behind you with a clack the heavy wooden doors of Howaardt's study. There you have Bertholt, who's standing off to the side, the dragonborn servant of the Darrington family, waiting patiently, and you all at this moment are at your own disposal. What do you wish to do?
Sam: Just before we move  the names that Dad had told us about to maybe parlay with in the Myriad?
Laura: Korshad.
Sam: Korshad?
Matt: Korshad, yes.
Travis: And how much was the debt? It was 260,000?
Sam: 230,000!
Matt: 230,000 gold debt.
Sam: But wait, wasn't there some other name, the little--
Travis: Lydia!
Matt: Lydia was who you are to be betrothed to, and the location was the Grumpy Lily.
Marisha: I was questioning myself, I was like there was no way something was called the Grumpy Lily.
Matt: Had a stroke while taking notes in D&D. Grumpy Lily!
Laura: The Many is who we want to speak to.
Taliesin: Just as something that happened, during that whole family conversation I was scanning the room and the bookshelves for anything interesting, anything out of sorts, anything out of place.
Matt: Make a retroactive perception check.
Sam: A retroactive perception check!
Taliesin: I didn't want to-- yeah, I didn't see shit. I just rolled a three; that's nothing.
Matt: Rightly so!
Sam: Retrograde! You know they always say that retrograde perception is 20/20?
Matt: What?
Taliesin: I appreciate what you were going for there.
Sam: Anyway, I would love to ask Bertholt if he knows the location of my sister.
Matt: "Well, if you are looking for Maryanne, she's probably in her chambers."
Sam: All right, well, I mean I guess we can all walk to her room and knock on the door. It's a little weird, right?
Liam: You want to go talk to her and touch base with her first? You can introduce us to her after.
Sam: Sure. I'll lead them back downstairs to that main room that was all awful and terrible, right?
Matt: Well, it was just dark and cold and empty.
Sam: So I'll lead them down there. This was our playroom, maybe you should just wait here and I'll go talk to sis. I'll be right back.
Laura: All right.
Travis: Is there like furniture to sit on, or is it barren?
Matt: No, no. There's furniture, and a lot of the furniture here is really well made, dark woods, fine deep red and maroon fabrics. A lot of it has dust on it.
Taliesin: Plastic covers? No plastic covers?
Matt: No plastic covers. But some of the furniture here is for use and some of it is here just as part of the decor, and it's very easy to see which ones are which.
Laura: I'm definitely going to sit on the ones that are just for decor.
Matt: Okay, they're really uncomfortable.
Laura: Cool. Going to rub my butt all over it.
Matt: You leave a little butt-print in the dust. Perfect. At which point, Bertholt acknowledges that you guys will be staying. "Could I get anything for you? Perhaps teas, juice, water?"
Travis: What is this bullshit, no ale?
Laura: Do you have fermented juice?
Matt: "I'll fetch the wine." And he hobbles off to acquire some means of imbibement.
Travis: Should we pay him? We just found out he's dead fucking broke.
Laura: I'd rather not.
Travis: Okay. (laughter)
Matt: Okay. You make your way back to the second floor and off to the far western end of the estate, to what you recall being Maryanne's chambers. So as you enter her room, which has become her own study, as you recall last time seeing her, her room was becoming more and more of a functional office, and as you knock and push the door open like a familiar brother does, not wishing for any patience on her end, necessarily, you can see the interiors. The bed's there for function. Most if it is, I wouldn't say a replica, but it very much resembles the decor and mood of your father's study. You see her currently sitting at a desk in the corner. Her blonde hair is tied back in a tied braid that runs down her back. She wears a coat and pants and seems to be dressed a little formally or businesslike for being casually at home. You haven't really seen her dress like this before, at least not in a casual circumstance. As you glance over past the doorway she looks up from her papers and goes, "Brother!"
Sam: Hello, sister.
Matt: "Brother, what--" She closes the book. You can see she's been looking over ledgers and catalogues. Looks like she's been doing a fair amount of work here at the desk and stands up in a very formal way and begins to step towards you. "When have you arrived?"
Sam: Just today. Father kidnapped me and brought me home.
Matt: "Kidnapped?"
Sam: Well, I'm not a kid, but still works. Abducted. Abducted me and brought me home. Paid someone to do it.
Matt: "Right."
Sam: Yes. Anyway, it's good to see you. Your room is coming along quite nicely. It seems like you're running the show now, is that true?
Matt: "No, not quite, but the responsibilities have definitely been mounting. You look well. How have the wind-tossed roads of Exandria treated you this past year?"
Sam: Well, I have had many adventures and close calls, but I won't bore you with those details. It's been an interesting year abroad, and I would say I'm glad to be back, but for the abduction part and also the fact that I've now learned that we are destitute? Is that true?
Matt: "We're on the path to destitution, yes."
Sam: So it's true; he wasn't just trying to guilt me.
Matt: "Probably both, to be honest. We're in a relatively dire situation compared to our previous long-standing lifestyle choices. We're trying to fix this mess."
Sam: And what would have been your plan had I not arrived today?
Matt: "Well, you were part of the plan. We're trying to figure this out the best we can and given the circumstances, we feel this is probably one of the most viable and least dangerous or risky endeavors in which we can right the family's trajectory."
Sam: By marrying me to some lady I've never met?
Matt: "Oh, you're welcome to meet her. I've met her. I helped to arrange this."
Sam: What is she like?
Matt: "She's very nice. She's very pretty, a bit bookish, which once again would befit you rather well, but let's be honest. This is a political marriage. You do what you want. I mean, there isn't a politician or a lord of this land that hasn't in some way, shape, or form made their own life outside of the family." At that point, you noticed she gets a bit dark and seems to speak with this bit of sarcasm.
Sam: And father's businesses, are they being run the same way? With the same attention to detail?
Matt: "There's been no necessary change to the way business has been done. Other than the transition of some responsibilities, of course." And she gives a slight nod. She's getting a little uncomfortable as this conversation continues.
Sam: Listen, I'm sorry to pop in like this and challenge your judgment, but me marrying this person would solve our problems long-term? Somehow?
Matt: "Marrying into this family, the Truscan lot, would enable us the resources and connections to reacquire the deeds to our land, to reacquire the business elements that we've been in this unnecessary partnership with for some time, and would enable us to once again reclaim complete rulership of our family-controlled lands."
Sam: Do we not own anything anymore?
Matt: "It is a partnership that is quickly sliding into the behest of the Myriad."
Sam: So what is ours now? Anything? Our personal belongings? This home?
Matt: "We still own everything, in partnership. Own solely on our own? Some of the furniture."
Sam: And again, if I do this, what's to say we're not just going to drive up another debt again? Doesn't seem like father or you have been very good at keeping us in the black.
Matt: "I have only been recently brought into this unfortunate circumstance, brother. And you can trust in knowing that in my studies and my time spent here, working with father, being very clear, and very thorough with the mistakes he's made in the past, I will not be doomed to repeat them."
Sam: So you and he are two peas in a pod, yes?
Matt: "Well, he's certainly in need of retiring based on the stress he's put upon himself. It would not be long until I will take over the responsibilities."
Sam: Well, I may poke around and see if there's another way I could help. But before I do, is this fun for you? Do you like running this business, or almost running it?
Matt: "It's certainly a better challenge than many other daughters of lords are given in their time."
Sam: Do you have any friends?
Matt: "Friends come, when the money and power's in place. You know this."
Sam: I do.
Matt: "It's the way the land works."
Sam: Well, I'll leave you to your work, and-- love the decorations. I'm considering the offer and I'll have an answer for you by tomorrow morning.
Matt: "Wonderful." As you begin to make any sort of exit, she catches you and goes, "Brother, your arrival here is a great boon to us. You have the power to change the fate of this family. Consider the respect you have for the people who have worked their entire lives to provide for you what you have been given. Mother and Father sacrificed so much for us. Consider weighing one's selfish interest versus the importance of a bloodline. That is all I ask."
Sam: All right. I'll consider it. With all my intellect.
Matt: "Well, it's good to see you." She steps forward and gives you a half-hug. It's like--
Sam: A pat. The back pat. Good day.
Matt: "Good day." She straightens her coat and sits back behind her desk and waits for you to leave.
Sam: All right. I'll shimmy out. (sighs) All right, I'll rejoin my friends downstairs. Well--
Laura: How did it go?
Liam: Well, yourself.
Sam: As expected. Things are about the same between me and Maryanne.
Laura: Is she still a raging bitch?
Sam: No, she's not raging.
Ashley: I just think it's rather rude that she doesn't want to come down here and meet us.
Sam: She has her work and her--
Liam: Oh, she's not coming down?
Sam: No.
Liam: That's weird.
Sam: I mean, I don't know, she's busy. I guess.
Liam: Okay.
Sam: They're not guest people. They're not dinner party family.
Liam: We picked up on that.
Laura: Not even for people who could help them with their name?
Marisha: Did you mention us or anything else?
Sam: Nope. It didn't come up.
Liam: Did they have any idea what a heavy hitter you are now? The type of people you roll with?
Sam: They said, how have I been? But they don't really give a shit either way.
Marisha: So you didn't even offer up the information?
Sam: If they are not interested in me, why should I be interested in them knowing about me?
Laura: That's a very good point.
Liam: Let's back it up. What are you thinking? Where's your head at? How can we help you?
Sam: I don't know what to do. There's this woman; she's apparently nice and I could go for it and marry her, and then it seems like all my family problems would be okay.
Ashley: Forever?
Marisha: There's no such thing as family problems being okay for forever.
Travis: Really?
Sam: I don't know. I'm sort of curious about talking to the people who are in this contract with my father and seeing if there's any way to wiggle out of it a little bit, but I don't know how to solve everything right now. I also don't know-- I feel a duty, a responsibility to this family, because they are my family.
Marisha: Grog!
Travis: You feel a doodie? The privy is over there! Or over there! Or the front yard beckons.
Taliesin: He may have opened a bottle of wine.
Travis: I'm lost for the rest of this conversation.
Laura: No, we're not drunk, we may have just had a little bit of wine, just a small amount.
Travis: I carved my name into the floor.
Sam: Part of me wants to-- oh god. Part of me wants to turn around and go back with you to Whitestone and forget that the Darringtons exist, but I don't think I can't do that. I am a Darrington and I owe it at least to my name to try and fix what I can.
Laura: That's your plan?
Sam: Yes.
Laura: Don't sacrifice your entire life for this, though.
Sam: Well, I'll try not to, but it seems like a plan B at this point.
Liam: Also, you had no prior knowledge to your family's connection to the mob?
Sam: No? It's way cooler than I thought my family ever was. I knew my dad did shady business with lots of shady characters but I never knew-- I assumed he paid off people. I assumed he had friends in high places and people who you'd have to bribe to turn the other cheek, but I never knew that he was in business with them, owing our whole existence to these terrible people, and I don't know what to make of that
Liam: T, I think we're all prepared to help you do anything you want to do, but are you sure you want to help perpetuate the family business?
Sam: Definitely not. Listen, I think there's two steps to this: there's the short term and the long term. We have to solve this short-term need really quickly. Not this whole 230,000-dollar-- I mean -gold debt. It's a Whitestone term, I mean a Wildmount. Oh my god. My phone rang! I'm confused! Anyway, listen, couple drinks before-- no. We have a short-term problem that we can maybe go alleviate a bit if we go talk to these folk at the Laughing Ninny or whatever it's called. The Grumpy Lily.
Liam: I like the Laughing Ninny. I kinda want to go there instead.
Taliesin: It's a stand-up comedy club. (laughter)
Sam: And then there's a long-term problem which I'll have to solve on another day. There's a long- term problem that my family is awful and needs to be stopped at all costs, and that's something that I'll have to deal with tomorrow.
Laura: Do the Truscans, that's who you are being married into potentially, do they have a son?
Taliesin: That doesn't help! That's almost beside the point!
Sam: You're talking about marrying the sister? Yeah.
Taliesin: Oh, that's still--
Laura: I guess it's not the same, is it?
Taliesin: No! Actually, it's unfortunately the opposite.
Sam: You're royalty. You know this!
Laura: Of course, I know everything about royalty.
Sam: Little royal girl.
Marisha: What exactly is your duty that you are feeling inclined towards? Damn it, Grog!
Taliesin: Lilah? Is it Lilah?
All: Lydia.
Taliesin: Perhaps we should talk to this Lydia as well, because she is obviously in a position of being told what she is going to do with herself.
Marisha: Yeah! Maybe she's also a badass!
Liam: At the very least, we should meet all the chess pieces on the board, right?
Sam: I mean, she lives in another part of the kingdom, right, Matthew Mercer?
Marisha: That's not a problem.
Sam: Oh yes, that's true. But there's the in-town people we can meet first.
Laura: Sure. Let's talk to the mob!
Sam: Yes, of course! You'll come with me? Because I can't talk to the mob by myself.
Laura: Tary, of course we will!
Travis: Wait, when you said we need to stop your family at all costs, are you talking about killing them?
Sam: No, I'm not talking about killing them.
Marisha: Yeah, but Grog does bring up a point that I was trying to make before he started laughing when I said "duty." (giggles) But what, are you committed to keeping your family around? You said you were compelled and you felt like you had a duty but then you immediately started talking about--
Taliesin: Stop it, Travis! God, I can't--
Marisha: Tearing your family apart? And stopping them?
Sam: My family is pretty bad, I've learned. But I've also learned from young Trickfoot that even a rotten family is worth trying to save. And I admire the path that she took with her family, and I would like to at least try to push mine in the right direction and try to make our name a little less shitty.
Liam: That is a pretty big matzo ball, my friend.
Sam: Well, that's why that's long term. In the short term, I just want to get them safe.
Marisha: If there's one thing I understand, it's giving your life to a cause.
Sam: I don't want to die, if that's what you're saying.
Marisha: No.
Sam: Dedicating.
Marisha: Dedicating.
Sam: Thank you.
Marisha: Time is a gift, I would say.
Sam: Sure.
Marisha: So dedicating that gift is, it's a big thing, but I hope you believe in it.
Sam: I don't believe in them, but I believe in the cause right now, and we'll see how far that takes us.
Marisha: We believe in you.
Sam: You guys.
Travis: Can you describe to me this duty?
Marisha: You don't care!
Travis: I think I do now. Is it real hard?
Sam: It's a little more nebulous than that, Grog.
Taliesin: We can pass on this for now.
Travis: Adjectives are not my strong suit, so.
Laura: You know what an adjective is! That's impressive.
Travis: Yeah. No, I got it one time at this tavern. I had it for two nights. It just itched everywhere.
Sam: Listen. When you see my duty, you'll know.
Travis: Copy that.
Liam: It's loose. This duty is loose.
Laura: Should we go to the Grumpy Lily, then?
Taliesin: Please.
Laura: This is going so well.
Matt: As you're exiting the house and Berthold's opening the door, you hear some heavy creaking from the stair that leads down to the main area, and you watch as an older woman in her early fifties or so with her mid-length, curly brown hair in shades of gray, green eyes behind a small set of reading spectacles, stoic of face, wearing what looks to be some sort of a finely crafted silk robe, clutching a book under her arm, comes down the steps and looks down and goes, "Taryon?"
Sam: Mama?
Matt: "Taryon, my boy!" And she sets the book down and walks up, puts her hands out as she says, "Oh," takes you at the sides of the face and pulls you in for (kisses). "Oh, terribly sorry. I didn't realize that we had guests."
Sam: Oh, yes, these are my allies and my friends. This is the team known as Vox Machina. They are a fearless band of adventurers and they have taken me in as their own.
Matt: "Look at you, so rugged!"
Sam: Well. Yes, I am, a bit!
Matt: "So you've had some adventures with my boy, have you?"
All: We have.
Matt: "That's wonderful. Have you spoken with your father?"
Sam: Yes, I've spoken to Father, and Sister, and it's good to know they're healthy. And it's lovely to see you, as well. Have you been happy at all, this last year?
Matt: "I--" And she reaches back and takes the book off the step and goes, "I've been making my way through your library."
Sam: Oh! Oh, my books, in my room.
Matt: "Yes! Well, I've had a lot of time to myself. Been a bit under the weather for some time, and these have kept me fine company."
Sam: Oh. That's lovely. I hope you've enjoyed them as much as I did. What's your favorite one?
Matt: "Well, not this piece of trash." And she sets it down. "There's one. What was it called? The River's Dawn. It was a brilliant--"
Sam: Before the River's Dawn, yes.
Matt: "Before the River's Dawn! That one, yes. It was a continuation of the creation myth of Wildmount, but it turned into the spirits of the gods, these two fauns, and they fell in love but could not be together because the dawn had to rise and the sun would shine. It was very, very beautiful!"
Sam: Yes, yes! No it was, but also heartbreaking at the same time.
Matt: "Very much so. It reminded me of you."
Sam: Yes. That's one of my favorites, as well.
Matt: "Well. I didn't break the binding too much, I hope."
Sam: I'll fix it if you did. It's all right.
Matt: "All right."
Sam: Well, that's wonderful to hear. I'm glad you've been entertaining yourself. I know living with Papa can be very hard, and it's been very hard on you all these years.
Matt: "If you would excuse us for just a moment, please. Just a few moments." And she points towards the door.
Sam: I told you they were like this.
Travis: Yeah, no, we're going out the front door. Front yard.
Marisha: Bottle of wine!
Matt: Berthold is leading you out of the main area, out the front door.
Travis: Yeah, front door!
Laura: Out the house, like get out?
Matt: You guys were on your way out.
Sam: Just wait on the fucking porch!
Liam: We got it.
Laura: Fine.
Matt: As soon as she has some privacy with you, she goes, "My boy, if you could indulge me in some strange honesty, I'm rather intrigued at this idea. I don't wish to undermine anything that we've built as a family. I've lived a privileged life for a very long time, far longer than you and your sister have. I've lived within this house, removed from the world. I do as responsibility asks of me, my wedded duties as both a wife and a mother, and I do so without complaint. I have always seen you fight these same circumstances bravely, and I find vicarious joy in your escape from this place this past year. These books are a reminder of that same bravery. I know Howaardt has said many things, and he may be right. But there's a little part of me that welcomes a little change in scenery and lifestyle. Maybe that's what the family needs. I don't know. Perhaps I'm foolhardy. I know not."
Sam: No, you're right to think this way. This year has been eye-opening for me, and I know that you care for Papa, and you are a diligent and faithful wife. But I know how hard it must have been to live this life for so many years and I wonder what it would be like if you hadn't been with him, what kind of person you would be.
Matt: "Looking at you, looking at your sister, I wouldn't change it for the world."
Sam: Well, things are going to have to change at some point, right?
Matt: "One way or another. I just-- (sighs) I just want you to make choices for yourself. I want you to do what you think is right, that you could live with. Duty and blood is one thing, but... Anyway, I'm talking out of turn."
Sam: No. Thank you. Thank you for that.
Matt: "Could you not tell Howaardt we've had this conversation?"
Sam: Mum's the word. All right. I'll be back, and maybe we'll have time to talk more books later.
Matt: "I would like that very much."
Sam: Good evening.
Matt: "Good evening." As you leave, she's like, "Oh! The other one I was trying to remember was The Mountain Range of Gold. It was a wonderful three-part series--"
Sam: When you think he's dead, but he's not, and he comes back?
Matt: "Well, the second book, you get halfway through it before he even turns and reveals himself!"
Sam: I know! Well, you never see the body in the first one, so that should have been a tip-off.
Matt: "And then the white robes and everything! His renewed power, it's incredible! Anyway, I'm sorry, you have your friends waiting on you. Good night, Taryon."
Sam: Yes.
Liam: I want to adopt her.
Marisha: She's awesome!
Matt: So as you step out to greet the rest of your friends?
Sam: All right, let's go to the Jumping Jimmy, or whatever it's called.
Laura: How's your mother?
Sam: She's better. I mean, she's had a tough time. That was the longest conversation I've had with her in many years.
Laura: Wow.
Ashley: She said she's under the weather. What's wrong?
Sam: I think everybody's super stressed out and heartsick about everything that's happening, and living under a tyrant of a father is not healthy. You should have seen me when I lived here. I was not nearly as dashing or as charming as I am now. It took me spreading my wings and flying before I found my sense of humor. My hair looks better, my eyes look better.
Marisha: I thought you said that was because of the aloe vera.
Sam: Well, yes. We didn't have any at home.
Marisha: Right, yeah. Salt air is better for you.
Sam: I mean, life needs aloe to live. Is something I always say.
Taliesin: That's true.
Liam: I've heard you say that two or three times.
Sam: Moisturizing products in general. Life needs moisturizing products to live.
Taliesin: Life needs moisture to live.
Ashley: I know my beauty regimen's changed.
Marisha: Life needs moisture to live. It's way smarter-sounding.
Taliesin: All right, gauntlet dropped.
Laura: All right, to the Laughing Ninny it is.
Matt: All right. Who's leading this charge? Probably you, Taryon.
Sam: I know the place.
Liam: You are in charge while we're here.
Matt: You've never been to this place. You've heard of it, but you'd never be seen dead in a place like this before. You lead your way in. At this point, because when you arrived the sun was still in the sky, but it was deep in the sky, so by now it's post-dusk. You now see the massive stone and wood structures of Deastok are dark against the ever-dark sky with the windows now aglow, this warm yellows and orange of the candle and lantern-lit interiors. You can see there are hanging lanterns that are put out there, and you can see a number of individuals who seem to work for the city, who go and place these lanterns up in each of these poles, are now finishing their job and are returning to the evening. Following these lamps, along the street, the cobblestones are still really well kept for as old as this town seems to be. For a city that isn't a major metropolis within a kingdom, and what your experience has been in Tal'Dorei, a fair amount of money still makes it way through this city. Eventually, you find your way fairly far north into the city until you come across the exterior of the Grumpy Lily. Asking a few questions to guide you to which building it is, it's much smaller than you expected. You see what appears to be a single-story pub with one window, one door, no more than maybe 30 feet on any given side. It is lit from the inside, though it's dimly lit. As you approach and push past the somewhat ajar entryway, you see before you what appears to be three tables. Three singular, stained, brown tables. One lone patron sits at the center table, an elderly man inspecting a small, clay sculpture that he's enraptured by, and a single barkeep to your right that seems to notice your entry. A healthy, pale woman of brunette hair in her forties, dressed in a simple gray blouse. As soon as you enter and take in the atmosphere, she goes, "Slow day, folks! Happy to have the business! What can I get you?"
Liam: Jeez, Grog, I don't even know if you're going to fit in here.
Travis: Yeah, it's really tiny.
Matt: Your head does reach the ceiling.
Travis: Shit.
Laura: Just dive in then?
Sam: Should we get anything to drink first? Or just dive in?
Travis: Yeah, it's like how you have to buy something to use the restroom.
Marisha: Do you have a shiraz? I was just wondering if you had any imports. Do you have a red wine?
Matt: "Yes! That I can get for you, dear. Don't worry. Red wine we can do definitely." She walks over and slams her hand on the side of the bar and what you thought was once the patron now appears to be the one barman there. "Wait! What! Oh. I missed the conversation."
Travis: Oh the guy with the sculpture?
Matt: Yeah. "Red wine, for our guests." "Oh." He stands up and begrudgingly walks over. You see his back is hunched forward and he's (pained grunting). Leaves the room for a second. "Well, sit down, find a place wherever you like."
Sam: Put two tables together, I guess?
Laura: All three, really.
Marisha: Let's just take them all.
Travis: Wait, this is the meeting place of a dark group, right? A shady group? Shouldn't we check this area for anything shady?
Taliesin: Is there shade in this establishment?
Matt: It's dimly lit, so there's plenty of shadows.
Liam: It's a five-by-five square. Do we see anything amiss? Oh, that's terrible. 24.
Matt: Nothing seems amiss. It seems like a shitty pub. It's the definition of a poorly attended dive.
Laura: Does it look like there's any seams in the ground that would be a trapdoor or anything?
Matt: You can make an investigation check if you want to.
Laura: 17.
Matt: You begin to look around the floor and keep perspective around the area. No. You see some stains, you see some crumbs, and at one point you look over in the corner and you see what appears to be a piece of stale bread that's been left under one of the tables and there are three rats currently eating it. As soon as you lean in, they all stop and look at you and scatter.
Laura: Oh, you can keep going.
Taliesin: Could be worse. They could not be afraid of you.
Laura: That's true.
Matt: (laughs) They just give you the fuck-you look and keep eating their bread.
Taliesin: That's when you know you've really found the right bar. The rats were like: "We reserved this table two weeks ago. You have to make a phone call."
Matt: The elderly barman walks in now and he's got two bottles of red wine and he's shuffling. (grunts, clinks) "I'll get your cups." Turns around and starts shuffling back.
Laura: (laughing) Do you need any help?
Marisha: I mean we have-- Oh, it's fine.
Taliesin: Just let it happen.
Sam: Okay. Who do you think we proposition here? The old man?
Liam: That guy.
Sam: That guy? Really? What makes you say that?
Taliesin: Shifty eyes.
Liam: Shifty yeah, may be an act, even.
Sam: He's just old I thought. No?
Laura: Nobody's just old.
Liam: He's many things.
Marisha: That's true, look at Pike's grandpa.
Liam: Look at Pike.
Ashley: Look at me.
Liam: How old are you, again?
Ashley: 142.
Liam: I said goddamn.
Sam: Is that true?
Ashley: No.
Sam: Oh. (laughter)
Sam: Oh. Well, because you could be.
Ashley: I forgot my birthday. I don't know how old I am.
Sam: Is it in the hundreds?
Ashley: No. I think it's in the 30s.
Sam: Oh, okay.
Ashley: Right?
Matt: Whatever you want.
Ashley: Yeah.
Liam: You ain't no baby.
Matt: The gentleman shuffles back now with a bunch of cups. His hands wrung through all the various handles. (grunts, clicks)
Laura: Impressive.
Matt: (grunts) "Two gold for both bottles."
Laura: I give him two gold.
Matt: "Thank you."
Laura: You're welcome.
Sam: In my earring, I say to Vex  I'm clamming up, you do it.
Laura: Sir?
Matt: You see him walking and he goes like (sighs).
Laura: On your way to the back, could you tell the Many we'd like to speak to them?
Matt: He slowly turns his head over to the bartender, the woman. "What was that?"
Laura: Oh, just a conversation with the Many.
Matt: "What about them?"
Liam: I dip my thumb into some wine and I use thieves' cant and write "discuss" in wine on the bar.
Matt: (click) She gives a click noise to the old man, who goes (groan, thump) Are you going to take your bottles or what?
Laura: No, yeah, we'll definitely keep those.
Matt: "All right, pick them up. Follow me."
Taliesin: Oh, we're going to get to see the real bar.
Matt: He turns around and shuffles out. It's like following a bad, slow NPC in World of Warcraft. You're like, just go fucking faster! His pace is terrible. Yeah, it's awful.
Laura: Running ahead, turning around.
Matt: Exactly, just waiting.
Travis: Over here, adventurer!
Matt: Eventually, he takes you out of the small pub, past the unused kitchen, which has another series of stale bread clumps on the side, down to what looks to be a broom closet. He gets there to the edge of the broom closet and pulls out a key ring.
Laura: I want to pay attention to what key he's taking.
Marisha: Can I take the bread crumbs from the corner and throw it down so the rats could have it?
Matt: Sure. So you walk over to the kitchen and grab some of the bread crumbs and throw them down on the ground and you wait there, because there's no rats present. And you're like, bread crumbs. They scatter a little further out. You turn around and the minute you turn, in the air you hear (skittering) and look over, and there's like seven rats that just scurried out of the shadows and are just going at these crumbs immediately.
Travis: I kill all of them.
Laura: Sploosh!
Liam: I nudge my sister and say, all mine.
Laura: Yes. That she is.
Matt: He pulls one key and unlocks the small closet. You paid attention? (creak) Opens this rickety wooden door, and goes (grunt) and walks past, and he's behind the door, expectantly waiting. You guys glance into the space, and you can see there's what looks to be a low torchlight about every ten feet down a wooden stairway that descends about 30, 40 feet.
Liam: Traps, people hiding, anything that seems out of place or dangerous.
Matt: Traps, or people hiding?
Liam: Traps.
Laura: I'll look for people hiding.
Matt: Perception check, investigation check.
Laura: 24.
Liam: 24.
Marisha: Twinsies!
Ashley: Twinsies!
Matt: Look at that. That's disgusting. All right, so you guys make your way down. No traps in the stair descent, but you make your way to the bottom of the stairs without issue. You don't see anything necessarily fishy. You do see these torches have been burning for a little bit, a couple hours, and are probably needing to be re-upped pretty soon. You guys eventually make your way down, and as soon as the last of you-- who's following up the rear in this, by the way? What's the marching order?
Sam: I'll go toward the front with the twins?
Matt: The hallway here is about big enough for you to go single file.
Laura: Okay. You'll hang behind me, Tary?
Ashley: I'm in front of Grog.
Marisha: Yeah, I'll hang with Grog and Pike.
Taliesin: I'm in the center, as well.
Travis: I'm in the back.
Matt: Okay, so Grog's in the very back. Keyleth, Percy.
Laura: Pike is with Grog.
Matt: Yeah, Pike's with Grog. So we'll say, Grog in the back, then Pike, then Keyleth, then Percy, then Taryon?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: And Vex and Vax. And you have Trinket in your necklace, I assume? Okay. All right, so you guys descend down the stairway. As soon as, Grog, you make your way in, it's tiny. You have to (straining) squeeze in and duck low and even just walking through the pathway, your shoulders are rubbing against the sides of the wall, and your head occasionally (bang, bang).
Laura: It's like you in Japan, baby!
Travis: I know. Taking a shower, I broke like two shower heads. Just turning around, I was like (crash).
Liam: The beds, was that like lying down on a saltine for you?
Travis: Oh yeah. My heels were just over like the--
Laura: We went into McDonald's and his head hit the ceiling!
Matt: You are a kaiju!
Ashley: A kaiju from the deep! A level seven!
Marisha: Okay, wait, before we go any further.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Wait.
Travis: Oh my god. Holy shit. Before we go any further, wait.
Marisha: Do I have to be doing a short rest to do the Inspiring Leader thing?
Matt: It's ten minutes, it takes to do.
Marisha: Oh, never mind.
Laura: Well, no, we could stand here for ten minutes!
Travis: Yeah, no, please. Fucking say some words!
Marisha: I'm new to the being an inspiring leader thing.
Matt: Yeah, it's ten minutes, before you know you're going to go into something, you stop and do this.
Marisha: I should've done that at the bar.
Liam: Wouldn't that be cool if you were just pep-talking us all the way down here?
Sam: Start it now.
Laura: Yeah, start it now! Just do it while we're walking!
Marisha: Okay, okay. As we walk I'll be like  You know what, guys? I've had a lot of time to think over the year that we've been away--
Matt: The door closes behind Grog and you hear it lock.
Marisha: And I feel like we've grown so much as people, and you guys are family. You're a family to me. And I go on for a while. Do you guys remember that time in Stillben? When we very first met, and we all didn't really like each other, and Grog, I don't think you understood me for a while.
Travis: Still don't.
Marisha: Yeah, that's fine. That's fair. Hey Grog, do you remember that one time--
Matt: This is great, by the way, because at the bottom of the stairs it only goes for about 15 more feet before there's a door. There's a man on a stool who's just sitting there going--
Liam: She'll just be another minute.
Travis: I'm about to find out what the inside of a Bag of Holding feels like, I swear.
Matt: He's not stopping you.
Marisha: Do you remember that time-- I think it was the first time I made you laugh, and I turned into an earth elemental, and then pretended to do an "I'm going down the stairs" thing through the floor?
Travis: Oh yeah!
Marisha: Yeah, I just remembered that the other day, and I just love you guys so much, you know?
Taliesin: I don't feel included in this.
Marisha: Yeah, I don't think you were around yet. But I love you so much!
Taliesin: Okay, now I feel better. That's all.
Sam: Any change in our bodies or anything?
Liam: She's going for ten in-game, real-time minutes.
Matt: As you guys are all in the hallway, Grog at the back, you can't move forward, because everyone's stopped, and you're just like-- (groan) All of you who wish to can take 17 temporary hit points. That's by the inspiring leader feat.
Marisha: Oh yeah, you want to mock until you realize you get your hit points!
Matt: It is your choice as to whether or not you felt inspired by that and take them.
Marisha: And I love you guys. I love you guys so much.
Matt: Grog's too uncomfortable to take them.
Travis: No, I just start weeping silently in the back.
Liam: I mean, let's be honest, he wouldn't even feel the difference.
Matt: That's true, yeah. That's what Grog needs, is temporary hit points.
Liam: Grog would just go (sneezes).
Marisha: Not showing your sensitivity?
Laura: Thanks. Thanks, Keyleth. That felt good. That was a nice trip down memory lane.
Ashley: I feel inspired.
Laura: Oh, hey! How's it going there?
Matt: You see this guy, he's tough and surly, looks like a balding man who's just like made of muscle and anger. He's sitting there with one eye open, one a little squinted, he's just--
Laura: Do you feel inspired? No.
Liam: Not the warm and fuzzy type, are you?
Matt: He doesn't seem to respond. You do hear like a series of muffled voices and what sounds like a faint beat of some kind from the other side of the wall, just muffled.
Taliesin: Is the password, "I am what I am," not sure? Too strange a reference; never mind.
Matt: He begins to reach over for what looks to be a small lever that's hidden on the side.
Laura: We're here to speak to the Many.
Matt: Stops. (grunts)
Sam: We're in.
Laura: We're going to just go on in, then.
Sam: That word just gets us in.
Matt: So. As you guys enter this doorway, as it pushes open, you're immediately hit with a wall of voices and laughter and conversation, interweaving in multiple languages. This is far more lively than you expected it would be, it's a large tavern hall. It's almost two stories tall, but it's open. There's a central, circular chandelier that hangs over with what looks to be flickering candles in a circle around it. You can see elements of what are almost like a second floor, but it's more like a slight balcony outcropping. You don't see any doorways, it's just a level platform above, and there before you, you see what has to be three or four dozen people scattered across a number of tables, all in various forms of dress and many of them are drinking, some of them are playing games of chance, some of them are in deep conversation. You can see, the music-- though this is a bad example, but it's what I have-- it's not a full band, per se. It looks like there's a set of three percussionists in the far corner that are all in the process of weaving this rhythmic beat that shifts and changes. Some of them are on more of a hand drum, some of them are more small percussion instruments. It's interesting. It's not the usual bar atmosphere you're used to. It has almost a weird--
Sam: Would you say more like Blue Man Group or more like a subway bucket drummer?
Matt: I'd say it's in between the two, actually. Take a little Blue Man Group and a little bit of subway bucket drummer. It's right in between there. You guys step into the chamber and take in the atmosphere a bit. Whether that be with smiles, awe, or confusion and care.
Taliesin: That's exactly what I said, the real bar.
Ashley: I like this.
Liam: This is like old times.
Matt: As soon as you begin having this conversation and taking in the atmosphere, one of four bar hands sees you approach. You see a jagged smile of a hairless man with ruddy skin that immediately comes up to you. "Aye, friends! New faces are few and far between here in Deastok. Welcome to our little slice of the family. What can I get you?"
Sam: Well, we brought bottles. That's rude, isn't it?
Laura: The good stuff is down here.
Matt: "I don't know where you got that shit but put that away. We'll get you right fucked up, eh?"
Marisha: Do you have a shiraz?
Matt: "I'll see what I can muster."
Marisha: I like these people!
Matt: "Slim pickings for room here. It's a bit early in the evening. That's when it's the busiest. Just find some space, sit down. Folks don't want you to sit by them? Don't fucking sit by them."
Laura: Thank you. Do we see room for a large group?
Matt: You see two tables that have room for half of a large group.
Laura: All right. Split up?
Sam: Why don't we ask them nicely if they would like to move?
Laura: No, let's not do that.
Travis: Yeah, no. You do that. Go by yourself.
Sam: No?
Taliesin: No. This is special.
Travis: How about the talkers go to one table?
Marisha: And then the defenders go to another in case shit goes bad. I like that.
Travis: The Defenders' Table. Yeah, so I'm going to the talkers' table.
Laura: Yeah, obviously.
Marisha: Vex, Tary, I feel like you guys are good talkers.
Laura: Right.
Taliesin: I'll join you.
Liam: I'm actually going to wander the room.
Marisha: I'll sit with Grog and Pike.
Travis: Yeah.
Ashley: Yeah, Shiraz time.
Laura: All right.
Sam: What's our play here? Do we just keep saying the word "many" as many times as we can and see how far it goes?
Laura: This is about as in as we get with the Many.
Sam: This is it? So now we ask for her by name? Or him by name? Korshad?
Laura: Yeah. He or she may not reveal themselves too quickly.
Sam: All right.
Taliesin: We could buy Korshad a drink.
Laura: That is a beautiful idea.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Laura: Care of one Taryon Darrington.
Sam: Of course. I have just enough for a nice drink.
Laura: Oh, we'll cover the drink, darling. Party funds cover the drink. It's just in your name.
Sam: Oh. Oh, okay. All right. All right. I'm slow to catch on sometimes.
Laura: Can we grab a barmaid?
Matt: You split between the two tables. One of the tables appears to be three guys who are in a card game. As soon as you sit down they (grunts) and then keep talking amongst themselves more about taking bets, bluffing each other, giving shit about their home lives, stuff like that. The other table has four quiet individuals that are, look to be elvish lineage. Either half-elf or full elf; it's hard to tell. They're wearing these hoods that show the ears from underneath but then seem to block a lot of the features of their face and guard a lot of the forehead. This silk hood that drips down past the nose on the sides.
Laura: Do we recognize any semblance of that garb?
Matt: Make a history check.
Sam: History check.
Laura: Well, my history is shit, but 19.
Matt: 19. You haven't seen this kind of dress, but you've heard of it. It seems to be of Wildmount but the eastern side of Wildmount, not a part of the Dwendalian Empire. This more stems from Zorhaus, which is the other kingdom on the continent. It's actually in a tense existence along the border of the Dwendalian Empire.
Laura: You said it was to the east?
Matt: Zorhaus, I'm pretty sure that's what it's called.
Laura: It is now.
Matt: It is! It's whatever it's called in the campaign guide.
Laura: Oh! Oh man, that's right. Now you have to stick to what you wrote. That's crazy.
Matt: I know, I'll just have to look it up again. But anyway. As soon as you sit down at the table the four individuals look at each other and then get up from the table and then walk off to find another place.
Laura: Maybe some of us don't smell very good in this group. I'm not one of them, though. I smell amazing.
Liam: I smell fucking fantastic, and I'm over there. I am going to laze about the musicians and listen to the musicians and wait for them to finish a set.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I guess all of us can sit at the table because of the people--
Matt: All of you guys can sit at the table now that you've forced them off their own space. The guys playing the card game seemed to pay no mind. As you sit around the table, the barhand that met you here approaches and once more goes, "All right, looks like you've found a place to sit, what can I get you? Got you that shiraz you were asking for, eh." He goes ahead and he pulls up what looks to be a dark green bottle, already uncorked and he brings over a hefty metallic goblet or tankard and then pours it in there. It appears to be something akin to a shiraz, I suppose. Fills it to the top, slides it forward. "All right. Drinks for anyone else, eh?"
Travis: Yeah, you got any pies or meat or both?
Taliesin: To drink.
Travis: Do they not have food?
Laura: No, probably.
Matt: "I can get you a meat pie, if that's what you're asking. I don't recommend you drink it, though you could probably squeeze water from a stone, so wouldn't surprise me if you could."
Travis: Yeah, meat pie and an ale, please.
Matt: "All right, coming on up. Anyone else?"
Laura: Whiskey?
Taliesin: Same.
Matt: "It can be done. So whiskey. And you, little one?"
Ashley: Well, you said you have things that will fuck you up right, so what would that be considered?
Matt: "Oh, I mean no offense, lady, but you're a bit small-sized--"
All: Whoa!
Matt: "I mean that respectfully! Look, I'm just looking out for my patrons here. I don't want to go ahead and send someone to the local temple."
Laura: She can drink most people under the table.
Ashley: Bring it!
Matt: "All right. I'll take your word for it, then."
Sam: I'll have another shiraz.
Matt: "Another shiraz."
Liam: Over the earring  Pickle, will you get me one of those, as well, and don't drink it before I come back?
Ashley: As a matter of fact, I want two of whatever that is.
Matt: "All right, coming up." And he leaves the table.
Taliesin: Did you order the drink for when he comes back?
Sam: Oh the other drink? Oh fuck. Wait, before he goes, pardon me. I have one more order to make. I would like to buy a drink for Korshad, courtesy of Taryon Darrington. And I'll slip him a gold piece.
Travis: I thought you were about to shake his hand with two fingers.
Sam: There is a coin between the two fingers.
Matt: "Korshad, you say?"
Sam: Yes.
Matt: "All right."
Laura: I nudge him under the table.
Matt: "You want what he likes, it's going to cost you more than that."
Laura: What does he like?
Sam: Whatever it is, here is another four and keep another one for yourself.
Matt: "Thank you very much. That'll put you up to yours, though. We will go ahead and settle your bills at the end of the drinks. But all right, Korshad it is."
Taliesin: What table did the bartender look at when he said that?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: Oh, I was planning on totally watching that, too.
Taliesin: Yeah, that's a safe 13.
Laura: Should I roll, too?
Matt: Well, you said you were looking, too, so roll a perception, yeah.
Laura: Well yeah, okay. 30.
Matt: 30, okay. You gather the direction that he glanced. It was a cursory look, more to see if the individual in question was still in the room or not. But you got the direction of it, and you know exactly where he was looking-- three tables and that way there. He leaves for a bit, and the laughter is still rising and falling throughout the room. The musicians in the corner, which are two younger human boys and what appears to be a female goliath, who has the heavier drum in the center, who is like the mid-piece, the big (heavy drum noises). The two guys, one of them has a small set of lap drums, (light drum noises) the faster beats. And the guy to the left of her-- they could be brothers; you're not too sure, their features are similar but different enough, the ages seem off. The guy on the left has a series of small wooden blocks and what looks to be some sort of contraption that has three or four different small percussion instruments that are all fixed to it and so he is leaping between them all. For being just percussion, that variety is still making a cool melody. You're still able to find certain notes and certain blends where it still is a very different and unique atmosphere. They manage to bring to this crescendo the piece that you entered on, and it finishes. There is no real-- there is occasionally a couple of claps here and most everyone is busy about their own shit.
Liam: All right, I clap. Excuse me, players?
Matt: As they're both looking over to grab a drink to stop and the younger guy with a scruffy chin and this mop of hair that's a little wild glances over to you: "Yeah?"
Liam: That was a really unique piece you guys just did there. Thank you.
Matt: "You're welcome."
Liam: You know, I have only ever heard music like that one time, and it wasn't here. It wasn't in this city, it was actually in Emon. What was his name? Dranzel. It was a musician named Dranzel-- this is a long shot, but you haven't come across a Dr. Dranzel in your travels? I've always wanted to hear him play again.
Matt: "Can't say I have, sir. My apologies."
Liam: Oh, shit.
Matt: "Sorry. You guys ever heard of Dr. Dranzel?" And the other guy goes, "Nope."
Liam: Orcish. Stylish hats.
Matt: The goliath woman is sitting there and she is just staring off across the room and goes, "No." (laughter)
Matt: "Sorry, friend."
Laura: I'm keeping an eye on the side of the room that he glanced in, looking for anybody going and delivering drinks to the people.
Matt: Okay. You watch the gentleman who has been getting you guys drinks, and he is in the process of getting all of your various drink orders and pouring what you have requested, and he does come to a point where he gets this one fine jewel goblet that he has specifically set off to the side and he takes it and washes it and takes care to clean it entirely and dry it off, and once it's set there he reaches underneath, counting a few bottles and pulls one drink, uncorks it and there is this thick dark brown glass jug and as he uncorks it he pours it into there, glances over, grabs another thing, seems to be mixing it with something else. He is being very careful with the actual amounts he is pouring. He finishes that, takes a piece of what looks like an orange, crushes it in the inside and leaves the rind and takes it and swishes it for a second. (sighs) And walks over to a table across the entire hall, where you saw him glance before.
Sam: One sex on the beach! (laughter)
Matt: He walks over to a table where you see what appear to be about five different patrons at the table. Most of them wealthily dressed. Two of them appear to be older mercantile or business owners, they wear the jewelry on their hands very extravagantly and displaying both wealth and prestige to an ostentatious way that you know most high-end guild workers or owners tend to display. You are very familiar with caste systems that have emerged in a lot of these central metropolitan areas, and so you can very easily pick up some of those themes. Two of them appear as a contrast very simply dressed. No jewelry. You can't make out any details in this distance and there is one man who he hands the drink to, he sets it down in front of him and slides it forward. The man you see there, he has deep brown skin, marked, there appear to be a number of tattoos that curl up his arms and up the side of his neck and touch his ears on each side. He's wearing light, billowing clothes of silver and maroon silks that end about the elbow and are just hanging beneath, leaving the rest of his arm completely visible where you can see the tattoo continues up the forearm and grasps the back of the hand, almost like he has a gauntlet on that is just his skin. You see around him a series of gold and silver bracelets and rings that adorn his fingers. His face is framed by a lion's mane of black and gray dreadlocked hair. Because of your perception check, at this distance and your ranger-like eyes, you can see what you perceive to be a visible scar on his throat from ear to ear. He's currently mid-conversation with the patrons at the table, leaned back in his chair in a comfortable setting and as soon as the drink-- huh?
Laura: Can I read his lips?
Matt: Sure. Well, the drink arrives and gets pushed forward and you read the barkeep's lips as he says, "This drink is a gift to you from patrons on the other side of the place." And this individual, who you assume at this point is probably Korshad, gives a look and goes, (grunts). And he points over, right over to your table across the room. You watch as Korshad sits up, glances over your direction, sees you looking at him directly. Takes the drink, scoots it over next to his side, and folds his fingers and goes back into listening to the conversation of the other patrons. And the barkeep who is standing there is, "Right." And then goes back to the bar, gathers the rest of your drinks and brings them slowly over to your table and passes them out. "All right, got a second shiraz, for you there, sir. We've got a whiskey, and a whiskey. We got an ale and a meat pie for you. And you, well--" (laughs) He brings up these two mugs. They're simple ceramic mugs that are dark and handcrafted, and he sloshes them up to you and as you see inside, most ale has a good liquidy content. This has a very syrupy thick texture to it. He slides both forward and goes, "I don't expect you to drink both those back to back."
Ashley: Well, that's not up for you to decide, my friend. I get on my earring. Hey, String Bean, your drink is here.
Liam: Yeah, and Sarenrae will know if you drink it before I get back, so just hold onto it for me.
Ashley: Well, I can't make any promises.
Matt: And he leans forward and goes, "This here is the Change-Bringer's Nectar. You sip this, slowly."
Laura: The Change-Bringer's Nectar?
Marisha: Write that shit down. Can Keyleth get up and walk past the diplomats' table and run my hands--
Matt: Well, you guys are all at the same table now.
Marisha: Oh, we're at the same table now?
Matt: Yeah, one table got up as soon as you sat down.
Marisha: Oh, so we scootched together? Okay, then I'm just going to lean into Vex and give her an Enhance Ability on her charisma.
Laura: Ooh! I'll take that.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: You get advantage--
Laura: On charisma checks?
Marisha: Yeah. On checks.
Laura: I like it.
Marisha: Her cleavage gets a little nicer.
Laura: It can't get any nicer than it already is.
Taliesin: Very fair.
Liam: All said out loud.
Taliesin: Pike, which one of those two is Vax's? Which one of those two belongs to Vax?
Ashley: This one.
Taliesin: Oh that one? I'm taking a sip of it.
Ashley: Take a sip. It's very thick.
Matt: It's very thick, and it's sweeter than you expected, but it has a definite burn that grows and grows after drinking it. It's syrupy, but because of its syrupy texture, as it goes down it also coats and numbs everything as it touches.
Liam: Percy, I saw that. You have to buy me a whole other drink.
Taliesin: That's fine. I put my whiskey in its place and take the whole cup.
Liam: No motherfucker, that's not what I said! I want to drink that one and the one after it! Oh, you don't want to start with me, Fredrickstein.
Travis: Are you sipping it?
Ashley: I'm sipping it. I'm doing as the locals do. Enjoying it how he told me.
Matt: And you get the sense it's probably a good thing.
Ashley: It burns!
Matt: It's almost like maple syrup Everclear.
Ashley: Ugh!
Laura: Gross!
Travis: How's my meat pie?
Matt: Meat pie's pretty good!
Travis: This is pretty good!
Laura: That makes me want an empanada right now.
Liam: Role-playing, guys.
Matt: Sadly, no empanadas in Deastok.
Sam: Why isn't he coming over here? Should we send another drink? Maybe two this time.
Laura: He's in the middle of a conversation right now.
Taliesin: He has to sit and enjoy his drink.
Laura: Let him take some time.
Ashley: (slurring words) Should we sent him a Change-Bringer's Nectar? Oh no!
Laura: Oh no, Pike!
Ashley: (still slurring) I only had like three drinks. Three sips.
Travis: Keep going.
Laura: Just tiny sips.
Ashley: They were so small.
Laura: Drink some, maybe some water, too, in between each sip.
Ashley: Okay. Maybe some meat pie.
Taliesin: That's whiskey. That's supposed to be-- never mind. Go ahead.
Marisha: Hey, who's the Change-Bringer? Does anyone know? I feel like this drink is inspired. Can I do a check to see?
Matt: Make a religion check.
Marisha: Aw, I'm not good at this. Pike, you know gods!
Ashley: Let me see if I know. Will I know the Change-Bringer?
Marisha: Oh, please. I have no idea. I definitely have zero idea.
Ashley: I'm going to see if I can think of it. 14.
Matt: It's really not that hard. The Change-Bringer is Avandra. Avandra, one of the gods of the pantheon.
Marisha: Oh. Yeah, of course we knew that.
Matt: The Change-Bringer is the deity that looks over luck, looks over adventure, travel, the open road. That's as much as you can glean from your passing knowledge of the deity. Since you are not a woman of faith, obviously, you don't know much beyond that.
Marisha: It just sounded fancy.
Ashley: It sounded so fancy.
Matt: She's also known as "she who makes the path."
Laura: Hey, Tary.
Sam: Yes? Is it time? Should I go over there?
Laura: Just calm down. This is mainly what I'm trying to tell you right now. Stop being so weird.
Ashley: Do you want a sip of Change-Bringer's Nectar?
Laura: It might actually help you just a little bit.
Taliesin: Do what we do any time there's trouble. Sit down, pay attention, and do everything she says.
Laura: And don't look sneaky.
Taliesin: Have a sip of this. It'll help.
Laura: Yeah, seriously. Just have a little sip. A little sip, it's always good to relax your nerves.
Sam: All right.
Ashley: Loosey-goosey.
Sam: I'll take my helm and cock it to the side.
Laura: Yeah, jauntily. That's good, yeah.
Taliesin: Okay, now I feel like I'm on a listing ship.
Travis: What's your confident face look like? More tongue. Little further. Yep. Little higher eyebrow on the right side.
Laura: Okay, maybe stop. I'm just afraid he's going to look over here at any moment. I'm keeping an eye on good old Korshad, and seeing if he looks over here. I also want to see if I can catch his lips and see what he's talking about over on the side there.
Liam: And I would like to look around the room and make sure that other people aren't watching us, or if so, where in the bar they are.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: And I would like to make my way over to the goliath woman.
Matt: Okay. So as you begin walking in that direction, Vex. Couple things. One, you notice that Korshad, while he seems to be mostly being talked at or at least just listening to a conversation, when he does speak, he leans in and does this.
Laura: Of course he fucking does.
Matt: You get the sense he's a very guarded man and this is not his first rodeo. He speaks through his fingers.
Laura: I do, too!
Matt: But he doesn't appear to look over at your table again. He seems to have acknowledged the drink, is enjoying it slowly, and is back enthralled by the conversation at his table. What did you roll?
Liam: 25.
Matt: 25. And what did you say you were going to do?
Marisha: Mimic Vex.
Matt: Okay. You both cover your mouths.
Laura: What are you doing?
Marisha: I'm following your lead.
Laura: You don't have to do that.
Taliesin: Does this one still work? We can do this one.
Laura: Yeah, that one's good. Just this.
Ashley: Is this good?
Laura: That's it, Pike. Pike's got it. He's definitely going to come over and talk to us now, I can feel it. We're so cool.
Taliesin: This is a lot of drink that I seem to have taken on.
Matt: Vax. Glancing about the chamber, remember I said there was a secondary platform, that didn't have any doorways to rooms, but there was just the upper walkway across the room both ways? There are about six figures on each one.
Liam: Six on each one?
Matt: They're all sitting there, wearing leather armor, mostly covered by a cloak. You glance up and you can see underneath at least two of the cloaks what appear to be the shape or outline of a crossbow at the ready.
Taliesin: 12 of them? 12 men?
Liam: I relay to the group quietly, yes. Packing. 12 or so above us all, so no sudden movements.
Matt: The music picks up again, Grog, as you're walking over. The next piece is occurring and you can see now that while the previous one had a frenetic tribal beat, this one has more of a scattered, if I could say percussion jazz sense. It tends to have multiple changes. Yeah, if you could. If you haven't heard the jazz timpani before, it's fantastic. It's more of an improvisational piece. You can see where they're each building off of each other, and then one will make a change and the others will shift with it. You don't notice this, because you really don't care, but anybody who had musical interests would be able to pick up on this. But you walk up and you see the goliath woman. Most of the goliath women you've come across, their lifestyle leads to either very short-kept or very tightly bound hair, as the coarse hair of the goliaths tends to mat up very thickly when living in the wild as your tribe did. This goliath female's hair is really well kept, actually. It's almost shining, which catches you off guard entirely. She's not tattooed and appears to be in a trance as she's in the process of drumming away, not even looking at the two of her compatriots or any patron. She's spacing out and is currently enraptured by the music she's creating.
Travis: Are there any weapons around her feet or where she's sitting or playing?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: Three.
Matt: She has very nice boots. And as a man who has made boots in the past, you can acknowledge, those are very well-made boots.
Travis: Me Grog!
Liam: I just love the alacrity that Travis goes to two, three. It's so good.
Travis: You play good!
Matt: The head slowly turns and the eyes focus for a second in the dim, snow-blind looking pupils, and gives you a nod.
Travis: Nice hair.
Matt: Head turns a little to the side.
Travis: I'll be-- if you--
Ashley: Tell her she has nice boots, Grog.
Travis: What?
Ashley: Tell her she has nice boots.
Travis: Nice boobs!
Matt: (bang) Big drum hit, and her part of the song comes to a halt. The two other bits of music alter but continue the beats, and she just--
Travis: Boots. Nice boots. Bidet. And I go back to the group.
Matt: As you walk back to the group, a little dejected, Vax, since you're the one who's paying attention the most at this point, you notice as the goliath gets this small grin on the side of her face and continues to go back to the drums.
Laura: You charmed her!
Marisha: Look at you!
Liam: Nice work, de Bergerac!
Matt: But Grog doesn't see it.
Ashley: I'll be your Cyrano!
Matt: All right. So what's the next order of business, guys?
Taliesin: Is that conversation breaking up?
Laura: That's what I planned on doing, is waiting out that conversation. I in no way want to interrupt it.
Matt: About 20 additional minutes go by. Another round is bought at the table, with Korshad still slowly, very carefully sipping the drink that you guys bought for him. Doesn't appear to be slowing, doesn't appear to be breaking. You can keep waiting if you want.
Laura: I want to get one of those fancy drinks for myself and see what it is.
Sam: You mean the Korshad drink?
Laura: I want one of the Korshad drinks.
Matt: One of the Korshad drinks, okay.
Taliesin: I would assume you've already had this stuff at this point. We've been sharing a cup around. This is too much for a human being to handle.
Matt: Do you go to the bar?
Laura: I'll go up to the bar. We don't know his name, do we? The bartender's name?
Matt: You haven't asked him yet, no. There are a few barhands that walk around, but the one you've been going with, you can go ahead and catch his eye as you go through the area. "Hey, do you need something?"
Laura: Of course, darling. I didn't catch your name.
Matt: "Oh! Wence."
Laura: Wence, thank you so much. Could I grab another of those fabulous five-gold drinks there, that you brought to our friend?
Matt: "Oh, you want Schlond's Embrace. Okay. If you're sure about that."
Laura: I don't know, what is it?
Matt: "It's an acquired taste. It's made from a very long-distilled, 40-year processing of a heavy mint leaf, and that, when it's been very thickly fermented, is mixed in with this very sour port base that's been repeatedly funneled and sifted until it's become almost thick in its own right. That's mixed together with a few other sugars and a bit of a special fruit. Honestly, I think it tastes pretty shitty, but it's what he likes."
Laura: I'm going to give it a go.
Matt: "All right then! Five gold." He goes and makes the drink for you again.
Laura: Slowly but surely marking little amounts off this party fund, y'all.
Marisha: Need to make some more money.
Matt: However, he does not bring it in the same glass. He brings it in a regular glass. You get the sense that the glass that was filled was his own. But it's delivered and it's different. It almost has a weird, mushroomy flavor to it. The fermentations involved in the processing of this is not the type of alcohol you'd expect. It's a little musty. But it's functional, and it has an aftertaste that comes to a very strong mint, like a wintergreen afterwards. It's a very strange mixture.
Laura: It's like brushing your teeth, only you get drunk.
Matt: Yeah, kind of. In fact, elements of it taste like having orange juice after brushing your teeth.
Laura: Foul.
Matt: Yeah. It's a little rough at times.
Marisha: What are you learning about the man by what he drinks?
Laura: I'm learning that he probably has minty fresh breath.
Marisha: Oh, really?
Ashley: Maybe you should cheers him from afar so he can see you're drinking it.
Laura: Yeah, but mine's in an ugly cup.
Marisha: They didn't give you the same cup?
Travis: I have nice cups. Do you want a jewel-encrusted chalice?
Laura: Do you have one?
Travis: Yeah!
Laura: Pull it out.
Travis: I'm like fucking Bed, Bath, and Beyond in this bitch. Jewel-encrusted chalice.
Laura: Do you really have a jewel-encrusted-- you do, in your fucking Bag of Holding?
Travis: Not anymore, it's getting marked off now.
Laura: Sweet. I'm going to clean that shit out, pour it in.
Taliesin: The interior of that bag looks like the Pirates of the Caribbean ride. It's a little weird in there.
Matt: It is a silver and pewter chalice that contains a number of multi-colored gems embedded along the sides, going to the base.
Laura: This is gorgeous.
Matt: Lil' Jon would be proud. It's beautiful.
Laura: Taryon. You drink out of this one.
Sam: That drink?
Laura: Yeah, you're the one that bought him the drink. Look like you're drinking it, too.
Sam: All right. Pinky out.
Laura: How is it? Do you like it?
Sam: I love it. (whispers) It's terrible.
Laura: I know.
Sam: I'll just laugh, way too loud. (laughs) And then she said to me, that's not armor!
Matt: Another 20 or so minutes pass in the tavern.
Matt: Some folks have entered since then, some have left. The patrons that are here don't seem to be-- there isn't a lot of switching in and out. Seems like most of the folks here come here fairly often at the end of the day, whether to go about their business or to unwind. But no one seems to be approaching you, no one's crossing your path.
Marisha: I'm so bored.
Laura: Can I go over and talk to Wence one more time?
Matt: Sure. You catch his attention. He comes back to the table as you step up and start in his direction, he goes, "Hey. Another round, eh?"
Laura: Actually, no. I give him five gold.
Matt: "All right. You want another one?"
Laura: No, I'd rather not. No, I was just wondering, do you know how long Korshad usually hangs out here every night?
Matt: "Varies. Easily probably another hour or so."
Laura: Always with the same company, or different people?
Matt: "Varies. They've been here most of the afternoon."
Laura: Oh, wow. Would you mind going over to him and just letting him know that the gentleman who bought him the drink would love a moment of his time.
Matt: "Oh, all right."
Laura: Taryon Darrington. He needs to know the name.
Matt: "Okay. I will." He looks at the gold and goes, "All right. I will."
Laura: No rush. But make sure it happens.
Matt: You see he noticeably gets a little nervous. Walks over. Do you go back to your table to join your compatriots? Okay. As you're watching, he actually has to psych himself up. He approaches and then turns around and stops for a second, and goes up to the table again and stops himself and gets the gumption up this time and goes to the table. And you see him talking to Korshad, who at this point has his hand on the tip of the drink, glances up at him. Looks over at the table again.
Laura: I walk over and put my hand on Taryon's shoulder and keep eye-contact with Korshad.
Matt: You see a smile creep slowly across Korshad's face. Puts his hand up and immediately you can watch as Wence, who's in the middle of talking and expressing this goes, "Yes." And quickly darts away. Korshad gives a point to the rest of the guys and you watch his lips say, "Excuse me a moment." He stands up.
Sam: Make some room. Grog, leave!
Marisha: I scoot with Grog.
Travis: We get up. I get up.
Marisha: I get up with Grog, too. Oh, I have to pee. Do you want to go pee?
Matt: As Korshad's walking across the room, Vax, you do watch as all the individuals that are on the upper platform all watch him go through the room and are now seeing the table and where they are standing. The attention is very strongly on what is about to transpire.
Liam: So far just eyes, though?
Marisha: Yeah, I start paying attention to the room as well, with Grog.
Liam: Grand Poobah, here.
Laura: You said that over the earring?
Liam: That was Liam.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Korshad walks his way over to the table and you can see, as he walks through, occasionally somebody at a nearby table will stop and watch him him. Very quickly to you, you get the sense that he's definitely one of the more powerful figures that seems to come in and out of this establishment. He approaches the edge of the table, still holding the cup from the upper lip. There's like a lip at the very edge that he keeps clasped with his fingers as it drifts there in front of him, and he occasionally sips from it that way as he walks towards you. Comes up to the edge of the table. "Do you mind if I sit here?"
Laura: Oh please, join us.
Matt: He sits down and places the cup on the table. (muffled) "So." (laughter)
Matt: "My man Wence tells me that you are requesting my presence."
Laura: Yes. For the sake of this. I'm going to move my hands but just know my hands are here the whole time. Okay?
Matt: Okay. (laughter)
Laura: I'm sure you're familiar with Taryon here.
Sam: Taryon Darrington, of the Darrington family.
Matt: I have not had the pleasure, but I know of you.
Laura: And you are familiar with his father as well?
Matt: "Quite."
Laura: We've heard tell of recent situations with his family and you.
Matt: "And?"
Laura: And we were hoping we could come to an agreement.
Matt: "What agreement do you have proposed?"
Laura: Well, I don't know if you've heard of Vox Machina?
Matt: "We trade in a great many things. Information being one. And I am well aware of who you are."
Laura: And I'm well aware that someone like you could find a good use for someone like us.
Matt: "Are you offering your services?"
Laura: Potentially. If it could help clear the Darrington name.
Matt: (sighs) "You are not wrong. I, myself, am the keeper of the deeds. I consider the Darrington estate a long-growing loan that is now ripening. You see, our community here thrives on a principle that other syndicates in Exandria lack. Patience. I have been letting this stew for a very, very long time, so if you wish to make any sort of dent in this debt, your task will have to be equally monumental."
Sam: Well, I can make magical items, if there's something that you need made or enchanted. We have other members of the group that do different things. We have a fine tinkerer, if you need something made for you. Vex here is an excellent shot. She could put on an archery show or something, if that would be something worthwhile to you. You know, if that will help ease the debt. I know my family owes you quite a bit of money.
Laura: 230,000 gold. If we're hearing correctly.
Matt: "You are correct. For the time being."
Sam: And might I inquire, as it is my family's debt: what is the timetable on that? Will you be coming to collect anytime soon?
Matt: "I have given your father a date of six months to pay this debt. If it is not paid, then the deeds, as agreed upon many years ago, transition to my name entirely. I am not going to kick your family to the street; I am not a terrible man. But I will be possessing all of your belongings."
Sam: Will they be in any physical danger?
Matt: "No. Not unless they put up a fight."
Sam: Well, I don't know much about you, but I assume you would much rather have the cash than have to own property and manage it.
Matt: "Both have their uses."
Sam: All right.
Laura: So would the Darringtons simply work for you?
Matt: "The family, I will happily give them time to find whatever place they can afford to live or leave the city entirely. It is not my business. However, I will be taking over the farms, I will be taking over the business, I will be taking over the estate. Most of the assets within, they will become property of the Myriad."
Taliesin: Well, there. That's where I think we could come to an arrangement. We're not particularly invested in the power structure here. We're here for sentimental reasons. The estate and just enough property to maintain a modest comfortability. We don't really care what happens to the fortune so long as your family's taken care of.
Sam: Yes, I guess.
Taliesin: You keep your house, you keep your things, you keep a little bit of property to manage.
Sam: Sure.
Taliesin: What do you think? I mean, they did make this bed. I'm suggesting to you that maybe it is not your job to save your family's power and allow them to keep going as the way they have. But just to give them enough that even if they-- that they can continue with reasonable means. Maybe not necessarily living the life that they were living before but living far more comfortably.
Sam: Even that would be a step up, but it seems like we would have to do something in order just to earn that much.
Taliesin: Oh, I imagine so. It's just, there's a difference between saving everything and saving enough to keep them comfortable.
Matt: "If I am to understand you correctly, you are willing to offer your service to us?"
Taliesin: Possibly.
Matt: "And in exchange, we would still be taking the land-based assets from the Darrington name, other than the estate and enough means to live comfortably."
Taliesin: And enough income property for them to be relatively comfortable. Reasonably comfortable. I'm sure we can take a look at the assets and come to a very, very reasonable arrangement. And you, in turn-- well, we could have a discussion about what that would be worth to you. I have no interest in making an arrangement that doesn't please you. We're only here, again, for sentimental reasons. We are not invested beyond that.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Taliesin: Please, god. You've been terrible today. 15.
Matt: He goes, "Comfortable living is a relative thing. To maintain my comfort of living, well, your estate is but a drop in the bucket. But, and I mean no offense--" as he looks about the rest of you-- "Comfortable living for some of you, well, that could be as much as my drink would cost."
Sam: My family would require their main property and all residential rental property.
Matt: "That is not a deal. The residential and the farm territory is to become mine. I would leave for them your estate and enough gold to live a comparably comfortable lifestyle than living on the street for years to come. They could then strike out on their own, start a new fortune if they wish. Perhaps land barony was not their strong suit. You seem to have found other pursuits, maybe you could lead them in a new path."
Laura: And past that point, they would be in no debt to you?
Matt: "Past that point, and a task done in our favor by the famed Vox Machina. Maybe."
Sam: Would they get to maintain possession of their personal property? Artwork, statues?
Matt: "Everything that remains within the estate home itself would be yours to keep. The rest is mine."
Sam: And what is this task?
Matt: "Roughly 120 miles east of here lies a sinkhole. It has swallowed the core of the platinum mines of Herethis a few months back. Now, those mines are a very lucrative point of business for my employers. And every time we've sent scouts to inspect the source of this erosion, none have returned. Many very capable and proven men, unheard again. One of our greatest diviners has since spoken of a powerful force within this mine. Ancient. Birthed improperly. But now seems to grow more and more mad. We're at a loss, so we've put out a contract or two, but nothing has taken a bite yet. If you were to go to this mine, find this entity that has ruined our mining operation there, return with proof of its demise, and we confirm its destruction, I will consider our task complete."
Taliesin: We'll also need some operating capital for this. It sounds dangerous, so we will take the job, but we will need to also charge a very reasonable fee, I think, on top of this.
Matt: "That is entirely understood. And we will keep track of each fee, and we will deduct it from the materials in the Darrington estate."
Laura: If we take care of this for you, it does seem like a monumental task.
Matt: "It may not be. But it would seem to be something of your skill set."
Laura: From what we've learned, ancient beings tend to be quite powerful. We would ask that you don't slander the Darrington name. That when they stay in their estate, everyone believes they are still the Darringtons as they have always been.
Matt: "I would agree to that. I have no interests in your family's public image. I believe that damage has been done well enough on your own."
Sam: Yes. Are you sure you don't have a cloak I could just enchant and then we could call it square?
Matt: (chuckling) He takes another sip from his drink. "When all this is said and done, Taryon, we'll be in contact. I think there is much business we could do in the future."
Sam: All right. I suppose we have no choice.
Taliesin: We do.
Laura: There's always a choice, dear.
Marisha: You could marry the girl or we could go kill an ancient being.
Taliesin: I'm feeling pretty good about this one.
Marisha: Yeah!
Sam: All right.
Laura: Do we need to decide at this moment?
Sam: Seems like we do.
Taliesin: We will also need all of the information you have on this creature in the mines, and if you have anybody who has access to that--
Laura: The diviner would be wonderful to speak to.
Matt: "The information I have given you is what the diviner has found."
Sam: I'm not going to ask you all to risk your lives for my shitty family, so I will pursue this matter on my own if I have to.
Laura: Good. Yeah. You're going to go by yourself.
Sam: Well, I would hire a couple of people to come with me, but if you'd like to accompany me, I'd be okay with that too.
Travis: We could watch you do it. That'd be pretty funny.
Sam: Well, I mean, you've taught me a lot, so maybe I could do it.
Laura: I think you're good.
Ashley: You won't find anybody as good as us.
Sam: Of course not.
Marisha: You are very skilled in hiring talented mercenaries. That might be your strongest suit.
Sam: I am one for two on that count.
Taliesin: And we do have another mercenary at our beck, if we need. That's actually very fair. You're already one up.
Sam: Should we vote on it then? Grog, do you want to go kill something big and scary?
Travis: Yes.
Sam: Pike, are you drunk?
Ashley: I think you should marry whoever you want. So that's what I think we should do. Yes. Yea. I vote yea.
Sam: Twinsies?
Laura: Always have your back, dear.
Sam: Oh, Vax isn't here. Hey Vax. You want to go help me save my family by risking our lives in almost certain death?
Liam: What does that entail?
Sam: I'll take that as a yes. Keyleth?
Marisha: Vax says yes, and so do I! Aye!
Sam: Science bro?
Taliesin: Vex says yes, and I am so in the mood to kill something. (laughter)
Marisha: I think we've all risked our lives for each other at one point and another, so it's your turn, Tary. Welcome to the family.
Taliesin: Cheers. This stuff burns.
Matt: And this whole conversation he's had his mouth covered, he takes his fingers away from his mouth and he takes the drink. "Do we have an accord?" Picks his drink up and clinks it. "Return when the deed is done." Slaps the table and stands up and walks back. And at this point, that you notice, the tables nearby, everyone's been just quietly watching in on this. As soon as he leaves they go back to their business and drinking.
Taliesin: Everyone, on the count of three, we're going to stand up very quickly.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: Why? Okay.
Liam: Wait! No, I'm just fucking with you.
Laura: Three! Let's go!
Matt: As you do that, about half the folks get startled by it. The music's still going.
Laura: On the way out, can I grab Wence again, one last time?
Matt: "Hey."
Laura: Most of the people here, are they local patrons or do they come from all over?
Matt: "Most of them are local and come from all over."
Laura: Great. Thank you.
Matt: "Sorry."
Laura: It's all I needed.
Matt: "I just serve the drinks, miss."
Travis: Can I make my way back over to the players?
Matt: Okay. She's sitting there. (drumming)
Travis: Can I have your name?
Matt: (drumming)
Travis: (louder) Can I have your name?
Matt: As she's still drumming her head slowly turns around and she goes, "Camilla." (drumming)
Travis: Thank you, and I leave.
Matt: (laughs) All right. With that, we're going to take a break. Try and get back here in a minute guys, see this next bit of interesting fun.
Marisha: To Camilla!
Matt: All right guys, so we have tonight's Wyrmwood giveaway: this awesome butternut wood and leather dice tray. Giveaway from our friends at Wyrmwood. Come on over, jump into the Twitch chat to enter for the possibility to win this, the word for the night is Myriad. That is M-Y-R-I-A-D. If you don't know, look it up on Google.
Marisha: You'll win it if you spell it right.
Matt: Exactly. Butternut up or shut up with your Myriad spelling. All right guys, be back here in a few minutes. See you in a second. [break]
Matt: Hello, everyone. Welcome back to Critical Role. Which, timing works out interesting sometimes. Yeah, welcome back to the game. We had our break. Going to go ahead and jump in here.
Liam: I feel cheated. I didn't hear any of that.
Sam: (belches)
Laura: Nice.
Sam: Thanks.
Matt: As you guys have found your way out of what seems to be this strange subterranean bar beneath the Grumpy Lily, you've agreed to, at least for the time being, to make your way east to this mine, which currently seems to be under the-- what's it called? The Platinum Mines of Herethis. Herethis. Which you, Taryon, you understand. Herethis is a region, a regional forest area over there. The Herethis Wood. About 120 miles east. You guys decide: What's your best means of travel? How do you intend to get there?
Sam: We have to misty there, right? Because you don't know any trees in the area?
Marisha: I could scry on the area if I knew enough about it.
Taliesin: If we misty there we could also camp for the night.
Laura: Yeah, we need to camp because we need to rest and get our shit back.
Marisha: That's fine. It's 120 miles.
Matt: It's not terribly far, as the mist flies.
Marisha: Yep. I'm pretty fresh.
Taliesin: We can misty there, camp for the night.
Travis: (repeatedly, getting deeper) Yeah. (laughter)
Travis: Character voice.
Matt: Well, I'll go ahead and by the way, because I totally forgot. We do have a winner in the chatroom. Besolis8926, you won the giveaway.
Liam: You got the Nutter Butter box!
Matt: Yeah, Denova will contact you for your information to get it shipped to you, so congratulations. All right, so. What are you thinking about for travel? You're just doing the Wind Walk?
Marisha: All right, before we leave, is there any type of research we should potentially do?
Travis: Nope. Headlong. (laughter)
Sam: I don't know what we'd be researching. The guy who sent us on the mission doesn't even know what it is.
Liam: It's not even nearby, so it's not like we could ask people what the mine is like. It's 120 miles away.
Travis: Yep.
Liam: The mines of "hear this."
Laura: Herethis.
Travis: This is right up our alley. Like this is literally what we've been training for our whole lives.
Marisha: I mean, just in case there's maybe some ancient deity that rules over the forest of Herethis and some sort of goddess? Fuck it, let's go.
Laura: I mean, do we know anything? Have we ever heard about the woods of Herethis or the Platinum Mines of Herethis?
Matt: You guys haven't. You have. They're woods that lead into this small rocky-- it's almost too small to be a mountain range and more just large, rocky hills. But there's no historical significance to the location that you know of. Go ahead and make a history check.
Travis: Roll high.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Sam: Oh yeah! 21.
Matt: 21. You do know a number of the large-scale battles that took place towards the end of the Age of Arcanum took place on Wildmount. In fact, Zorhaus, the other kingdom that we were discussing before is largely a badlands, barren landscape because that was where the final battle between the Betrayer Gods and the Prime Deities took place. And the sheer volume of, the sheer intensity of that battle laid waste to the landscape there, so you have the Dwendalian Empire and the whole western side of Wildmount, which is fairly lush and functional, then towards the Zorhaus Kingdom is, and that whole eastern side of the continent, a lot of it is just barren, cracked, destroyed. But you do know that Herethis, the name, at least, stems from a hero that fell in a battle long ago. You can't recall the specific details of it, but there is some significance to the title or at least the location there to something ancient and old. May have to deal with this time period of entities battling gods. That's the best you can make out. The mines are well known. The Platinum Mines are well known. They're not well attended. They're not a public space, and they're definitely under the control of a number of companies that are shadow corporations under the control of the Myriad. You can see where the connection and the necessity for it to be reopened again is important. Platinum is not a very common metal.
Travis: Anything we should be worried about?
Sam: Gods attacking us.
Travis: Nope.
Marisha: Trial run.
Laura: Oh man. No, but really, that's where the battles took place, huh? So this ancient being could be from, potentially--
Sam: Or it could not.
Taliesin: Whatever it is, it's not leaving the mine.
Liam: We're running off on a lark, but we've raked ourselves in the faces before.
Laura: Yeah! If we die, we die.
Sam: Oh god, I don't want to die.
Taliesin: Well, no one wants to die.
Marisha: Well, once again--
Laura: Don't say it, Keyleth. Do not fucking say it.
Travis: Don't incant that shit again.
Laura: Don't say it about all of us and doom us to your fate.
Travis: Goldfish.
Marisha: Duty. (laughter)
Travis: Better.
Sam: Before we go, was there something you wanted to tell the drow woman?
Laura: Oh shit.
Liam: If we're talking about what we were talking about before, I don't think it's a good idea.
Travis: Why?
Liam: If you want to go and find him, us, and say hi, that's a different story.
Laura: I would like to point out that this same person you are so adamantly protecting from our scrying or our spying or our finding is the same person who shit in the middle of a temple so that he could watch Pike.
Liam: Well, A) he did that, not us, and B) we were all very much friends and happy with each other when he did that, and he is not happy with us. It's not exactly the same thing, dear. But if you want to go with me and find him and check in and say hello, I'd be very happy to do that with you. But to send the woman who threw our friend, drugged, over the back of a horse, and took him off to his family? I don't really want to send her after Scanlan, to look in on him or follow him or watch him or anything him. It didn't sound like his father wanted him dragged back on the back of a horse, and it happened anyway. She doesn't seem very trustworthy to me. Yeah, she's cool. So what?
Laura: I just realized I have the other half of the stone. The traveling stone.
Marisha: That we gave Scanlan.
Laura: I could pop in on him anytime I want.
Taliesin: Or he could pop in on you anytime.
Marisha: But he hasn't.
Travis: If he has it, still.
Marisha: Yeah, maybe he threw it into the ocean for all we know.
Travis: Ooh, that would suck because then we'd be in the ocean.
Laura: That would be really, really shit if he did that.
Marisha: It would be a massively dickish move.
Liam: That was very smart, Grog.
Travis: Hey.
Taliesin: Wow, that happened.
Travis: In your face.
Liam: Oh. Anyway, my point still stands. Once we wrap up here if you want to go find him I will go with you.
Marisha: And do what? Convince him to come back?
Liam: No.
Marisha: See if he's okay? Ask him how his year's been?
Liam: Yeah.
Travis: What about just a location and she has to stay unseen? You know, I know Keyleth can scry and stuff but--
Taliesin: We could make her walk first into the mines.
Marisha: Yeah, you didn't want me to even scry on him and now we're talking about just popping in on him? I feel like there's a weird crossing of the lines.
Travis: Yeah, but that was a year ago. I'm over that sentiment.
Marisha: Oh man, Grog.
Travis: Yeah. Yep.
Marisha: You guilted me very hard on that. You made me feel kind of shitty.
Travis: This is Grog evolved.
Marisha: No, you kind of got it right. Just go with it.
Taliesin: Exalted?
Laura: Exalted?
Travis: Absorbed. Yep.
Liam: You done been woked.
Travis: Woked.
Liam: So woked.
Laura: No, but seriously. What are we doing? I don't think we use that mercenary to walk into a mine. I'm not sending her to her death.
Taliesin: I am perfectly content to hold onto that chit for as long as we need.
Liam: Save that for a rainy day. We don't need to punch that ticket now.
Sam: Should we at least ask her to stay in town? For a to-be-determined mission later?
Travis: Well, I think she needs to keep up her employment, right?
Sam: We can give her a little money to keep around, a retainer.
Laura: No.
Sam: I can give her a little money. I might need her.
Taliesin: She was employed. She's reachable through employment. We can just find out how to reach her.
Travis: Oh, yeah, that one!
Sam: She might be gone.
Taliesin: You have to be able to hire her. I'm sure there's a system.
Sam: We have no idea how she was hired in the first place.
Laura: We go ask her how to hire her.
Sam: All right, well then let's do that.
Marisha: And no one has heard from him at all over the course of the year?
Travis: Who?
Laura: Oh. Well, he writes me all the time, but outside of that.
Travis: What? Really?! Scanlan does?!
Marisha: She's messing with you.
Travis: That was very mean.
Taliesin: You promised you'd keep that secret.
Liam: She has a mean streak.
Laura: (laughs) I have so many secrets to keep, dear. So many.
Travis: I'm mad for an (stutters) a long time.
Liam: I know one of them. When she farts it sounds like a duck.
Laura: It really does.
Marisha: That's kind of cute.
Laura: We go find-- (laughs)
Taliesin: You're going to fart awkwardly and we're going to yell "imposter!"
Matt: All right, so you find K'rynn. She let you know that she was just around the corner from where the estate was and let you know where to find her, and it's like an open tent/lounge area. She's just currently drinking water and eating a little bit of dried meat, and as you approach, she stands up. She still has her illusion on. She still has her pale skin. You get the sense that drow in general are not-- they don't have the easiest time walking through large societal establishments. "You returned. So what did you need?"
Sam: We have no mission at this moment, but we may call on you shortly after we return.
Matt: "Very well."
Sam: Can we find you here or will you be gone?
Matt: "I have no interest in staying in this city in particular. I generally prefer to stay around Vashlow."
Sam: Where's that?
Matt: "Vashlow? It's to the west of here. About 25 miles southeast of Port Demali."
Travis: Port Demali.
Matt: "If you wish to contact me, you can send a missive to Vashlow, or if you have access to a practitioner of the arcane arts, perhaps a Sending would be sufficient."
Sam: Sending, okay.
Laura: Definitely.
Sam: All right. Well, stand by. We'll call you. Thank you for your time, and we'll be in touch.
Matt: "Very well. It was just business."
Sam: Sorry about your horse.
Matt: "Eh. Fair trade." She gets up and gathers her little satchel over the side of her shoulder. "Until we meet again." She nods and then walks out into the darkness of the night.
Laura: Never to be heard from again because we'll forget that we have that connection. (laughter)
Matt: All right, so what are you guys doing?
Sam: Let's Misty Step. Let's Wind Walk.
Laura: Misty Step tonight and then that way we can recover everything?
Taliesin: In the morning.
Marisha: Yeah, what time is it?
Matt: You're in the evening now.
Laura: Let's Misty Step there--
Matt: Misty Step is a very different spell.
Laura: Oh, sorry.
Liam: We go 30 feet. (laughter)
Sam: We're going to be windtalkers.
Matt: Yes. All right, so you guys go ahead and transform into your misty forms via the Wind Walk spell and begin making your way to the east, towards the Herethis Wood. Travel is pretty rapid. It's a clear sky. The moon's still pretty-- it's only been a few days since the last full moon when you guys had the ritual up at the top of the mountains with the Trickfoots, so it's very easy to see the details, especially those of keen vision. Rather rapidly, you find yourselves to the outskirts of the Herethis Forest, and after doing a couple passes overhead, you can see there is a portion of the forest that is open, and there you can see there are a couple of stone towers set up. There appear to be large ropes and cables fastened at the edges of what looks to be a large circular ravine, some sort of an entry port, a very large hole in the ground. And as you approach and get close you can see that, while there are two standing towers, there appear to be remnants of two other towers that have fallen in, and looking at some of the cables and the way that some of the equipment is set up, it appears that this sinkhole that he spoke of that consumed a portion of this entryway, whether it be a quake or something, a lot of the structure that was placed around the outside of the mine has fallen in, and is precariously being held either dangling over the inside by cable work or has crumpled somewhere at the bottom of this abyssal hole you see before you.
Marisha: What do you mean by--
Matt: When I say abyssal hole, that's just a descriptive way of saying it is pitch black from this distance. You cannot see anything past the top.
Sam: And it's connected to the Abyssal Plane.
Matt: It is actually a doorway to the Abyss. Hey guys! Orcus tonight!
Marisha: Finale!
Travis: Do we have any glow sticks that we could throw in and watch fall?
Taliesin: Yes, we actually do.
Matt: Have you guys transitioned back to your physical forms to have this conversation?
Marisha: Yeah. Well, we can float down.
Taliesin: If we're doing our little circle, I would say that a little bit of a distance.
Laura: Yeah, I don't want to camp right next to the--
Taliesin: About half a mile away.
Liam: I'm looking for cooties around the outside.
Matt: Okay, make a perception check.
Liam: Cooties.
Laura: Did you get it?
Ashley: No, it's right here.
Liam: Dang it. 24.
Matt: 24. Okay, you start coasting over the edge, and you can see there are broken carts and crates. You can see the remains of what seem to be a couple of humanoid bodies, mostly picked away to the point where there's just slightly pinkish bone from whatever dried bits of muscle or blood that remain, the rest of the flesh and organs pulled from or dissolved. You're not sure.
Laura: I think a Cure Wounds, a light Cure Wounds would probably help.
Sam: Dead talk?
Taliesin: They don't talk back, but yeah.
Sam: Let's do that.
Travis: Oh yeah, you can do that!
Ashley: We can talk to the dead. I have it.
Laura: We'll land a little bit away.
Travis: We didn't land yet, right?
Laura: Let's land a little bit away.
Liam: Getting some Baldur's Gate vibes here, man.
Matt: So you land about half a mile out, and you guys transition back to your physical forms. Vax shares the information and what he spotted.
Laura: Were the bodies on top or were the bodies down below?
Liam: On the edges, right?
Matt: They were on the edges.
Marisha: And when you mean seared, like acid? Or like heat?
Matt: Like white and pink bone. Like just whatever flesh was on there has been picked off.
Ashley: Like something was eating them?
Taliesin: Can we speak to dead?
Laura: Pike can do that.
Taliesin: Why don't you two misty there, somebody start setting up camp for tonight.
Laura: I'll go with Pike and we can stealth in.
Marisha: I'll start setting up camp.
Taliesin: You can still misty. We're still misty-able. You can fly in, talk to them, and fly back out.
Laura: She can't talk to them as mist.
Taliesin: I mean, land and then--
Laura: Oh, okay. I'll cast Pass Without a Trace, anyways, so we'll be stealthy going in. So I do that.
Matt: All right, so. Is it just you, Pike? Who's going with you?
Laura: And me.
Liam: I'm already standing by the bodies, yeah.
Matt: All right, so you go back to the bodies with them?
Laura: Okay, you're still out there?
Liam: No, I--
Matt: All right, so the three of you are turning back to mist and making your way back toward the entrance.
Taliesin: I'm going to set up the tents.
Matt: Okay. You guys land near the edge of this crumpled rock and you see where the ground itself has curled in and collapsed inward, and there are a number of cables or ropes that go across and various large structures, the stone towers that sit at the edge of this opening. You can see there's tension on these ropes and either the rope's going to snap at some point as the weather gets harsher over here, or the rock is going to crumble in if the ground keeps eroding. You're not sure if it's done, or if it's a slow crawling thing. There before you, you see a body. You can see elements of clothing, torn and dried, crusted with old blood. You see a boot that's left off to the side. The foot's been removed, but it looks like the edge of it's been torn and ripped a bit. The skeleton's been picked clean.
Ashley: Okay. We only see the one body?
Matt: There are three bodies around the whole exterior, but you've landed next to one.
Liam: When you said picked clean, do they look like they've been chewed upon?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Liam: It's fine. 18.
Matt: Looking at the bones, you can see signs of what appear to be scratches or grooves across the bones... It's interesting. A lot of the bones have a very smooth texture to them. You're used to seeing very porous, but it looks like elements of the bones have melted slightly.
Laura: Oh, gods.
Liam: Slimes, jellies. All right.
Laura: I'm going to get my broom ready. And while Pike is doing her ritual I'm just going to keep a hand on her, that if anything happens then I can just take off with her in tow.
Matt: Okay. Pike, you're casting Speak with Dead?
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: All right. It's easy enough for you to cast it. It's quick. Ritual complete, you go ahead and you burn some incense.
Ashley: Okay, I get three questions.
Matt: And at which point, the skeleton, which is face down on the ground by the way, the skull (bone creaking) creaks up and looks over. Like, turns around and faces you as it reaches. It curls upward, almost in like an upward dog--
Laura: Like downward dog? Oh. What's that called?
Matt: Cobra position, but the head's turned completely around and curled up.
Liam: Oh, I get down close to it and go (groans) and I flip it over.
Matt: (rattling thud) It flips over on its back and the head (bone creaking) turns back around to its right.
Liam: Sorry.
Matt: You get five questions.
Ashley: Five questions.
Marisha: Five?
Ashley: Good day, sir. It's not a good day for you. Sorry.
Travis: Wow.
Laura: It's okay. Good start.
Ashley: What happened to you?
Matt: (raspy, strained) "Something in the mines we found. It hatched. Or woke. And its anger shook the halls. I tried to run, but the skittering beasts got me first."
Laura: Skittering beasts?
Travis: Godzilla.
Liam: That's more than one.
Laura: (whispering) What did the skitterers look like?
Ashley: What did the skittering beasts look like?
Laura: Oh, in my drink?
Liam: It flew away.
Marisha: Yeah, it's a dick.
Matt: (raspy, strained) "Large. Hard carapaces. Pincers. Many legs."
Ashley: (whispering) It's like spiders.
Travis: Umber hulk?
Liam: Umber hulk with many legs.
Marisha: That could be a glabrezu, which fucking killed you the first time. They have pincers.
Laura: Yeah, but that's really big.
Marisha: I don't know. Skittering beasts?
Ashley: Is there anyone else alive?
Liam: Did anything work against it?
Ashley: Oh, yeah that's a good question. (louder) Was there anything that you guys could tell of your knowledge-- did anything seem to damage it or work against it?
Matt: (grunts) He seems confused about what you're referring to. The skittering creature or the--
Ashley: Oh. The skittering creature or the big thing?
Laura: The skittering creatures?
Ashley: Both, because we still have--
Liam: Against them
Ashley: Against them! Against the skittering creatures
Matt: "The skittering creatures, we just ran. I didn't look to see."
Laura: That's already three questions.
Ashley: Okay. Oh god, this is not-- (whispering)
Ashley: How big were the creatures?
Matt: "They were rather large, maybe eight foot end to end. They burrow, they spit. But they were awoken by the smaller one."
Ashley: Wait, he said they spit?
Laura: I didn't hear, something about his spit. What did he say?
Matt: You gather, what he said was-- (laughing)
Matt: No, the skitterers bite, they spit. But they were awakened by the smaller one.
Marisha: The smaller one?
Laura: What's the smaller one?!
Liam: What can you tell us of the smaller one?
Sam: They spit. Maybe acid, probably.
Liam: Yeah, they're smooth, that means they were just like (slurping noises).
Ashley: Is there anything that you can tell us about the smaller one?
Matt: "It was like a baby, and it cried out and everything fell around us. I barely made it out, but the skitterers found me." (deep exhale) The enchantment leaves that embodied the skull, falls to rest, the bones now motionless.
Sam: So it can emit a cry that shakes everything.
Ashley: A baby, like a baby?
Liam: Mandrake?
Matt: I would say, Marisha--
Marisha: Does it sound like anything we have encountered? A nature check?
Matt: We'll say a nature check for both you and Vex.
Marisha: Would I have an advantage with my little book?
Matt: Not for this in particular.
Liam: It will be like the creature back in Stillben?
Laura: Yeah, I don't think that's what it is.
Liam: And we have heard tales of mandrakes, and they scream.
Laura: Yeah, did the pincers sound like something we have fought though, before?
Matt: No, it's not something you've encountered before, necessarily.
Marisha: 19?
Matt: 19, okay. And Vex?
Laura: Nature check?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Do I get advantage because I'm standing in the woods? Six!
Taliesin: You know you're standing in the woods.
Matt: You have heard of a creature that does exist in subterranean and sometimes forested areas, referred to as an ankheg.
Marisha: An ankheg?
Matt: An ankheg. They generally tend to snatch cattle and beasts of burden in the night. They are large and insect-like. They spit an acidic fluid. Some of the things this corpse has described makes you think of that.
Liam: Isn't that what our bug juice is made out of?
Matt: You bug juice is made of sandkheg, which is a desert-based variant of that creature.
Laura: Oh. I wonder if we could sprinkle it around us and they won't bother us because we'll smell like their brethren.
Travis: I ain't wasting that shit!
Laura: Hey, man, it's an idea.
Marisha: So they snatch cattle--
Sam: So we should all be cows.
Marisha: Oh my god, you guys. Perfect opportunity!
Liam: Throwback Thursday!
Marisha: Throwback Thursday!
Matt: If only the person who could cast the spell was in your party anymore. He's elsewhere in the world right now.
Liam: That asshole.
Sam: We just talked to him. He was the dead body. (groaning)
Matt: All right, so what are you guys doing?
Sam: Well, we're going to rest for the night, and then go in at first light.
Laura: Yes, we definitely should have a Heroes' Feast.
Marisha: Yeah, let's have a Heroes' Feast, which-- okay, hang on, let me check here.
Travis: We don't need it.
Marisha: I can do a Heroes' Feast.
Taliesin: Protection from acid would probably be very--
Marisha: Okay, but my Wind Walk-- I already Wind Walked, so I can do a Heroes' Feast at a higher level. I also want to do a 5th-level Commune with Nature.
Matt: Okay. 5th-level Commune with Nature.
Marisha: What should I ask? What should I ask that we don't already know?
Sam: I mean, is there any nature down there? It's a mine. It's all rocks.
Marisha: Well, I can see in a two-, three-mile radius.
Travis: How deep does the hole go?
Marisha: I was thinking that.
Matt: Instantly gain knowledge of up to three facts of your choice about any of the following subjects as they relate to the area: terrain; bodies of water; prevalent plants, minerals, animals, or peoples; powerful celestials, fey, fiends, elementals, or undead; influence from other planes of existence; or buildings.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Choose three of those.
Marisha: First and foremost, influences from other planes of existence.
Matt: Okay, so as you focus and Commune with Nature, the plants speak to you in this series of images and thoughts that essentially get the idea across to you that there is something planar involved here, but it's very old and long-dormant, recently awoken.
Marisha: Okay. Planar, long dormant.
Taliesin: Recently awoken.
Travis: If it's a fucking baby ancient dragon I'm going to be stoked.
Marisha: Okay, so something planar.
Liam: Didn't Drez Vina send us to a fetal thing?
Marisha: Yeah, that was our first fight.
Sam: Oh, we can't do how deep is the mine? No?
Marisha: No, I can, it's a terrain question, so terrain. Yeah. How deep does this mine go?
Laura: Maybe you can ask where the thing is in the mine.
Marisha: Is. I think I can, right? Can I sense the location of where--?
Matt: You can ask whereabouts this thing is.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Nature tells you this sinkhole goes down for about a quarter-mile, and it lies at the very bottom.
Laura: It's just straight down at the bottom of it?
Travis: That's 400 meters, y'all.
Ashley: So it's like this and then the little baby thing at the bottom?
Matt: Apparently, yeah. The whole ground just collapsed inward.
Marisha: 400 meters and the entity lies at the bottom.
Sam: We can just jump. We're like gods.
Marisha: Yeah, we're gods!
Taliesin: We're golden gods.
Marisha: It's only a little bit more than 1000 feet.
Laura: Yeah, then you might survive that one? Only if you turn into a goldfish and fall onto the ground. It's fine.
Marisha: Now I know Looney Tune physics doesn't work in this world.
Liam: Always go earth elemental.
Laura: Always Keyteor.
Marisha: Always Keyteor.
Sam: So what's our last question?
Travis: Something from another plane. We know it's 400 meters down.
Marisha: It lies at the bottom.
Taliesin: How many of these creatures are there?
Travis: Of the crawly ones?
Marisha: Ankhegs. Can I get a sense of how many and whereabouts the ankhegs are?
Matt: One of the two.
Laura: What are ankhegs? Are they fiends?
Liam: They're beasts, probably. They're big bugs.
Laura: Aberrations?
Marisha: How many?
Travis: Yeah, because if there's hundreds, then--
Marisha: That's a problem.
Taliesin: Then this is a stealth mission.
Matt: They are monstrosities, and that's what they look like right there.
All: Oh!
Taliesin: I love Starship Troopers. I'm excited.
Laura: We're about to fight some big, armored vaginas.
Marisha: About how many? Do I know about how many there are? Sensing their skittering movements under the surface.
Matt: Using the nature's essence to let you know somewhere in the neighborhood of about close to a hundred. Throughout the network of caves--
Marisha: Because this is a three-mile radius, right?
Matt: Yeah, so this is spread out amongst what would essentially be a subterranean anthill of these ankhegs.
Marisha: There's a lot.
Travis: We're going to need a fast exit. He wants us to take care of what the problem was.
Sam: We've just got to kill the big boss. One little baby big boss. The boss baby.
Laura: Did we understand correctly that it's the baby that cried out is the big monster? The big boss?
Matt: It seems to be the source of where all this started.
Laura: Okay. And that's the thing that woke up the skitterers?
Matt: Or at least brought them to start attacking the surface.
Laura: Okay. I just wanted to make sure it wasn't like, there's a big boss and then there's skitterers and then there's also little babies that cry out.
Matt: You don't know. This is all the information you have.
Ashley: But do we know why the baby woke up? What woke the baby?
Laura: No, we don't know what woke up the baby.
Ashley: We didn't ask that? Okay.
Laura: Maybe we should talk to another dead person.
Travis: Nah.
Sam: I don't think they'll know.
Taliesin: I don't think they'll know.
Laura: They're not miners.
Ashley: They did something in the mine that awoke it. And we can redo it.
Taliesin: I think anybody who was there who saw it probably died at the center of it.
Liam: Sorry, we're trying to remember the very first game of D&D we ever played and Keyleth, twins, Grog were there.
Matt: Yeah, that's right. That was what was essentially a dead or stillborn deity. A demigod, essentially, in its own pocket plane.
Marisha: So does it have anything to do with this?
Matt: Roll a religion check.
Marisha: No. I'm bad at this! (groans)
Liam: I'm religious!
Matt: Yeah, if you want to, whoever's having this conversation you can make a religion check.
Liam: Luck of the day. Yes!
Laura: Natural 20.
Marisha: Are you serious?
Laura: No, I haven't rolled. I'm trying to make myself roll it.
Liam: I got a 19.
Laura: (gasps) Oh my god I rolled a natural 20!
Marisha: Shut up!
Travis: She really did.
Laura: It's like Run Lola, Run where she's doing the roulette thing and she's like--
Matt: Okay. You recall a while back that you battled with that entity, you-- what was it called? Crysa-Thul.
Laura: How?
Matt: (sighs) This is all I do with my free time, guys. Make up shit for fun. But that was not tiny. That was a very large entity. Like, to the point where you remember there was a 20-foot-wide well and a giant fleshy baby arm that slapped out and crawled it out Akira-style. Everyone kept saying small on this one, so you don't know if-- maybe related in some way? But you're not entirely certain. It doesn't appear to be the same kind of thing, necessarily. Not by the descriptor you've heard.
Liam: Corpse called it a small one, right?
Matt: It called it a small one.
Travis: We're good. We've still got to camp for the night, right?
Laura: Yeah. We're camping. But we should camp in the trees, y'all. Not in the ground, in case the things come up out.
Matt: Yeah, the thick forest of Herethis surrounds the mine.
Laura: Oh man.
Marisha: Can I Druidcraft some web hammocks?
Taliesin: I mean you can, I mean we've gone to all this trouble, but if we want to add to it. I mean, this is just what we've been doing.
Marisha: Look, I really like elaborate tree houses.
Taliesin: No, I understand. I respect the art form.
Marisha: I can have a rope bridge here.
Liam: Hammock bed.
Matt: We'll say Druidcraft, which is a very localized and cantrip-based magic, you could, over the next couple hours craft a single web hammock. (groaning)
Matt: It's a cantrip, yo!
Marisha: I'll pass. We'll just sleep with the ones we have or whatever
Liam: A third-grade diorama.
Matt: Yeah. This is what it would look like if you were to build to scale. Okay. So you guys find a place in the trees? Who's helming finding that spot? All right. Go ahead and roll an investigation check.
Laura: 15?
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Oh wait! I honestly don't know anymore what my favored terrain does for me.
Matt: No, this is exactly where to use it because forest is your favored terrain. This is exactly the kind of thing it would help with.
Laura: I always feel like I'm bullshitting it now. What am I rolling? Investigation?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: 24.
Matt: 24. You find one massive tree. The trees here can get pretty big, and there's one thick tree that the branches are pretty easy to climb, and up top it branches out and all the various branches that make up the canopy. It's almost like this little bowl at the very top, just underneath where the heavy foliage descends, and it's a perfect place for you guys to make a camp higher up off the ground.
Laura: Hey, this is a place! Let's do it here!
Taliesin: I'll unload everything.
Matt: All right, you guys make camp. Who's making first watch?
Travis: Me!
Laura: All right.
Liam: Me, too.
Ashley: Oh! Heroes' Feast.
Laura: Heroes' Feast.
Marisha: Heroes' Feast.
Matt: All right. We'll say as a note, this the last of the chalices you have prepared. If you want to do any more Heroes' Feasts, you'll have to specifically go and purchase the chalices or go look for it in town.
Liam: Let's do it!
Marisha: Is this including or not including the chalice that Grog gave to Vex earlier to drink out of?
Matt: That chalice, while it looks quite delightful, is not worth a thousand gold pieces.
Taliesin: It's from Medieval Times.
Matt: (laughs) It's a little gaudy.
Marisha: It's got Michael's. Michael's crafts.
Matt: Yeah, every time you drink from it you get glitter on your hands and you're like, shit.
Marisha: How do you turn it off? Cover it in blankets.
Laura: Yay, Heroes' Feast.
Sam: We're immune to fear?
Matt: You're immune to fear, immune to poison, and--
Laura: Advantage on wisdom.
Matt: Marisha, you want to go ahead and roll the additional hit points for Heroes' Feast?
Marisha: Yeah 2d10, yeah?
Matt: 2d10, I believe.
Laura: We're losing our 17?
Liam: Lose our 17 from the speech?
Matt: You do.
Travis: That's why I didn't take them.
Marisha: (gasps) Ooh! Wait, yeah! Ooh, that's amazing! It's a nine and a ten!
Matt: So 19 additional hit points to all of you guys.
Laura: If you give us a speech, how long does that last?
Matt: Temporary hit points last until they go down or you take a long rest, I believe. Let me double check.
Marisha: But this is going to be a long rest?
Laura: Oh wait, but does that mean we lose our temporary hit points on the Heroes' Feast?
Matt: Well, no. They're different. The Heroes' Feast is in addition to your maximum hit points. Temporary hit points are different. Technically, those two stack. You're about to lose the temporary hit points.
Marisha: But then at the top of the morning, I can give us another speech.
Matt: Should you be so inclined, yeah.
Laura: Tight.
Marisha: Do I have to do it?
Travis: No, you don't. You don't.
Marisha: Fuck you, Travis. Fuck you.
Matt: You can give the essence of a speech.
Marisha: Right, I can do an interpretive dance.
Travis: That's better.
Taliesin: Only if you actually do the interpretive dance.
Ashley: Wait, 19 extra?
Laura: He's giving you a look.
Marisha: A laser light show. With fireflies. It's like in a Disney Imagineer show.
Matt: It's a speech.
Marisha: All right, well, it's a speech.
Matt: You can give the essence of it, but the idea here is just you honing your public speaking skills.
Laura: You're going to get better at it, Keyleth.
Liam: It's like public debate in high school.
Sam: Toastmasters.
Taliesin: I love Toastmasters.
Matt: Temporary hit points. They last until they're depleted or you finish a long rest. Yes, I was correct. Cool.
Marisha: So in the top of the morning.
Laura: Top o' the mornin'!
Marisha: Top o' the mornin'!
Matt: All right. We'll say for the purpose of brevity, because even at your guys' level if you did encounter anything in this forest that was indigenous, you'd splatter it in a round. But you don't have any issues. Nothing really sees you up in the branches. You occasionally get caught off guard by the sound of a nearby (hooting). It's an owl in the trees. But nothing seems to bother you during your evening slumber. You complete your long rest. You still maintain your benefits from the Heroes' Feast, and as morning comes, Keyleth gives a rousing speech.
Sam: Just give us a topic.
Matt: You can just describe the topics you talk about. You don't have to give the actual speech.
Marisha: That's great, because one can only bullshit so much in a four-hour fucking game. I talk about the smell of our breakfast. It's bacon in the morning. And taste and smell the fleshy essence of the pork.
Taliesin: Is bacon what we're fighting for?
Marisha: No, bacon is definitely worth fighting for. Bacon is worth fighting for, and when we kill that celestial baby we will have the godliest bacon one could ever imagine.
Sam: I do like bacon.
Taliesin: This is the most Burning Man thing that's ever happened on this show. I'm flashing back.
Matt: Keyleth, Voice of the Tempest.
Taliesin: Bacon. Speech.
Matt: All right, guys. There you go. Take your 17 temporary hit points.
Marisha: She's not a great talker and has never been one. Just want to point that out. You guys all know this.
Matt: No, it's just her level.
Laura: Just add that to the 19 then?
Matt: No, because the 17, once the 17 goes it's gone.
Laura: But the 19 we can heal to?
Matt: It's still your maximum. You can heal to it, yeah. That is the difference.
Taliesin: I always imagine occasionally Keyleth gives a speech that's like what's-his-name from Animal House.
Sam: Matthew, I'm going to prepare some spells that I'm going to inject into various coins.
Matt: Yes, what are you doing?
Sam: I'm going to drop another 300 gold and give Vex another Revivify.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Grog, you're already a good jumper, right?
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: How far can you jump?
Travis: You gave me a Fly coin.
Sam: No, that's gone forever. That's gone. It doesn't last forever. It lasts a couple hours.
Travis: Well, that's bullshit. Yeah, I can jump 15 feet vertically or 20 feet horizontally. So not great. Like three squares.
Sam: I'll give you a Jump coin, so that will triple your jump.
Travis: Will you sing "Jump" from Van Halen?
Sam: Sure. When you do it. Let's see here. Who needs things?
Ashley: (singing) Jump! For my love.
Sam: Oh no, you guys all cast things now, right?
Taliesin: Not really, why?
Liam: T., give me something! Show me some magic. Give me a doodad.
Sam: Can you turn invisible?
Liam: I used to be able to, but I--
Sam: You gave away your ring.
Laura: Kerr bear. Oh no, it wasn't Kerr bear. It was Tova.
Sam: I'll give you a Blur coin.
Laura: Don't you already have that with your--
Liam: That cloak that I gave away?
Laura: Oh yeah, that one.
Marisha: That's the one that Kerr bear took.
Liam: That's right.
Laura: That's right.
Matt: Yeah. (laughs) The inventory of the items you've lost to guests.
Liam: Lost? Gave away.
Matt: Lost and gave away.
Sam: I'll give good old Percival a Cure Wounds coin.
Matt: What level?
Sam: Just one.
Matt: Level one. You got it.
Taliesin: Yeah. It will hopefully not come in handy.
Sam: And also I'm going to change my Robe of Many Things to my new Robe of Many Things.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: And that's it.
Taliesin: A Vest of Several Items now.
Matt: (laughs) The Kigurumi of Useful Trinkets.
Laura: Oh, hey. Well, no. Maybe would this be a bad idea? To shoot an Oracle Arrow down into the bottom?
Taliesin: I think that's been working out very well for us. It is pitch black down there, though, isn't it?
Laura: Well. We have this method that we used to do. Light the arrow on fire, and then send it down. So I can see by the light of the fire on it.
Liam: Would that make your actual eyeballs burn?
Laura: I don't think so.
Sam: Oh! And I'm going to do one more thing. I'm going to pull out a healing draught bottle, and give it to-- no, you can heal things.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm all right.
Sam: You don't need to heal.
Travis: Other people, I normally do.
Sam: I give it to Vax.
Travis: I turn into Nurse Betty almost in every fight. What are you talking about?
Taliesin: Yeah, that's actually true.
Laura: That's true, he does. He does heal people a lot.
Travis: But that's cool, you give it to somebody that, you know--
Liam: Well, he can give it to me. I've got 50 things I can do a turn. It was what kind of potion?
Sam: A healing draught. It's not a potion; it's a bottle of healing shit.
Liam: Oh shit.
Sam: It's 8d8.
Ashley: 8d8?!
Liam: 8d8?!
Liam: I will never give this up. Ever. Thank you. Thank you, Taryon.
Sam: Sure.
Taliesin: I think that that's a really good idea, shooting an arrow down there.
Liam: I'm going to set the Deathwalker's Ward to necrotic.
Marisha: I'll light my hands on fire so that Vex can light her arrows on fire.
Taliesin: So when we're ready we've got something to light the--
Laura: Wait, should I cast Pass Without a Trace on us? No, I'm going to do the Oracle Arrow first. Oh. What if we wake it up when I shoot it down and things come out?
Liam: Well, that is a very real possibility.
Taliesin: Well, then they'll be easier to kill up here than they will be down there.
Marisha: They'll be 400 meters down. I could theoretically drop some awesome Fireballs on their face, potentially.
Laura: I like this idea. I'm going to cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us, just to be safe. So we can stealth and be quiet. Yeah, but they'll just keep falling, won't they?
Marisha: I don't know.
Laura: How does that work?
Marisha: That's a weird magic question.
Taliesin: This is why magic freaks me out.
Matt: What's the question?
Marisha: If I drop a Fireball, how long it'll go--
Liam: Does gravity continue to carry it down?
Matt: Drop a what? A Fireball?
Taliesin: Fire a Fireball into the abyss. Will it just eventually stop?
Marisha: Will it keep going?
Matt: Well, a Fireball is a small bead of magic energy that has a range. So if it reaches the end of the range, it has no effect.
Taliesin: This is why magic's weird.
Marisha: But I could Keyteor to the bottom.
Matt: You could.
Travis: We're just spoiled for choice.
Matt: You take half bludgeoning damage when you impact.
Marisha: Yep, advantages to both.
Liam: Dropping a great height did not go well for you.
Travis: Keyleth, did you roll 17 or 19 on your--
Marisha: I rolled 19, but then you get an additional 17 because my weird speech about bacon.
Matt: Bacon points. 17 bacon points.
Laura: It will make the most glorious bacon!
Matt: To be fair, I've eaten some bacon in my time that's given me some temporary hit points. Just saying.
Marisha: Look, it was inspired, okay?
Matt: Oh, completely.
Marisha: I'm not wrong.
Liam: We will not go bacon-less into the night.
Marisha: Bacon has saved many a people.
Laura: All right. I'm setting my arrow on fire, and I'm shooting it down into the pit.
Matt: Okay. Oracle Arrow. You fire it. It's a big pit. The radius of a small flame on an arrow doesn't seem to light up the walls. It's not bright enough, so it just descends and descends, and the wood is catching and burning, and eventually it hits the stony, earthy floor at the bottom (arrow impact) and it clatters and breaks a little bit. It's burning pretty heavily, and you glance around the space inside and you can see what looks like some broken mining equipment on the ground, jutting out in places. You see what appears to be some sort of stony platform that is carved, but mildly forgotten or eroded steps, and the rest of the arrow burns up and you lose your vision.
Laura: That was helpful. Super helpful.
Taliesin: Worth it. It was worth it. It didn't cost us anything.
Laura: That's true. I didn't see the great baby beast down at the bottom.
Taliesin: And that's information we didn't have. And now we know. Great baby beast is not at the bottom--
Laura: Potentially. In that small circle.
Taliesin: It's not at the bottom of the topless pit.
Laura: Okay, so we could take the flying carpet down. A couple of people could fly. We can take the flying carpet down.
Taliesin: Two flyers, plus the carpet.
Travis: The circumference of this thing is massive. The diameter.
Matt: Well, the diameter of the actual hole is maybe about--
Travis: Football field?
Matt: Not quite that big. I'd say it's about 150, 200 feet across?
Travis: Stay away from the walls.
Laura: You think? The skitterers are going to come out of the walls?
Travis: Yeah, do not come anywhere near the walls.
Sam: When we descend, do we want light to be able to see? Or we don't want things to see us?
Liam: Good chance they can see in the dark.
Taliesin: Let's have the flashlights ready, but not activated.
Marisha: I mean, I have a few Daylight spells.
Laura: It may be good to blind them if they dwell under the surface.
Travis: You know, if we're not in a rush-- (deeper) if we're not in a rush, it might just be nice to send a little mini nuke down into the hole and see what comes out.
Taliesin: Did your voice just crack?
Travis: Yeah, no, it's like reverse puberty.
Taliesin: Becoming a man? Okay.
Marisha: I'm down with that mini nuke. It extends a lot of our magical ranges, unless I want to Keyteor down.
Taliesin: I think it's better, especially-- have we seen a tree that we can port to in case of an emergency? Or some sort of object that we can port to?
Marisha: There are definitely a lot of trees, yeah.
Taliesin: But there will not be a tree down there.
Laura: No.
Matt: No.
Taliesin: Do we have an escape route if we need it?
Laura: We have a flying carpet, two brooms, a set of wings. Up and out.
Taliesin: Well, all right.
Travis: Just a reminder that I can't ride the carpet.
Laura: Yes, you can.
Liam: It's a big one.
Travis: Is it? Is it bigger than the first one?
Taliesin: Yeah, it's bigger than the first one.
Travis: So I can get on there with everybody else?
Laura: The only people we need to get on it are Percy and Pike. Everybody else can fly. Unless Keyleth is out of--
Marisha: Well, I can Polymorph him.
Taliesin: How much weight can the carpet take?
Ashley: I mean, you could technically just go on it alone and I could--
Laura: Hop on the broom.
Liam: We are versatile as shit.
Ashley: Hop on Vax's back.
Matt: Okay, the flying carpet, the one that you have? 800 pound capacity.
Travis: Okay.
Sam: It's you, right?
Taliesin: You're 300 pounds, right?
Travis: No, I'm... it's arguable. I'm definitely over 300.
Taliesin: Okay, so three of us on that carpet  one big one, one little one, and a medium.
Matt: You can fit Grog and one other person.
Travis: He's a big bastard.
Sam: We can take someone on a broom.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: I'll join you on the broom.
Laura: All right.
Matt: I think you could probably fit Grog, Percy, and Pike.
Taliesin: Yeah, okay then. That solves it.
Sam: Well, then let's descend slowly and quietly? Is that what we're doing?
Marisha: Hang on. Before we go, there's a few things I want to do. Let me double-check-- I don't want to be a dumbass.
Taliesin: No, this is very clever. I see what you're going for.
Marisha: Hang on. Wait. I might need the book. Okay, one of the things I want to do is I want to use my staff to create an air elemental? So I want to take a minute to use my Spire to conjure an air elemental.
Matt: Conjure an air elemental.
Sam: By the way, can I just remind everyone, this whole year I've had one half of a communications bracelet and someone's been watching us the whole time.
Travis: What?
Sam: Remember that thing I found?
Laura: Because you got that down in the fucking Nine Hells, right?
Sam: Yeah. Someone's watching us. For a year.
Taliesin: Oh my god, they're right there.
Laura: That is so crazy.
Marisha: What?
Travis: Yeah, watching you make fucking blondies. All right, this channel's boring.
Taliesin: The blondie channel.
Travis: He's making armor. Ugh.
Liam: (guttural, growly) I want a blondie so bad!
Marisha: I'm going to conjure an air elemental, and then I'm going to go over to Grog and I'm going to give him a big hug and say, for the next hour, no one can keep a hold of you. And I'm going to give him Freedom of Movement.
Travis: What is that?
Taliesin: Target should now spend five feet of movement to automatically escape from non-magical restraints such as manacles or creatures that have grapple.
Marisha: You can't be grappled.
Travis: So I just spend five feet of my movement?
Marisha: You're also unaffected by difficult terrain. And spells and other magical effects can neither reduce the target's speed nor cause the target to be paralyzed or restrained.
Taliesin: You are parkour.
Marisha: You're parkour.
Travis: I'm Chevy Chase in Christmas Vacation.
Marisha: Because I feel like you've been restrained a lot.
Matt: As you finish the conjuration with the staff and slam it into the ground at the edge of the entranceway, you watch as a nearby cloud starts to swirl and descend, and you hear this cracking sound as the planar shift between your plane and the Elemental Plane of Air briefly hiccups open and then summons forth an air elemental that (whoosh) rushes down under your control. It is concentration. Keep that in mind.
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: Let's go.
Travis: Do it.
Matt: So. Two brooms of flying, magic carpet, wings.
Laura: (singing) And a partridge in a pear tree.
Taliesin: (singing) And a partridge in a pear tree.
Matt: And you are...
Marisha: I know. I'm wondering if I should ahead and go elemental, but I can't cast. Can I get on the carpet? Is there room?
Matt: The carpet's full.
Taliesin: I'll hop on the broom. You hop on the carpet.
Matt: Okay, we can do that. All right, so you guys slowly begin to descend down this heavy, open tunnel.
Laura: This is just the stupidest. We're sticking to the middle.
Marisha: Did you cast Pass Without a Trace?
Matt: Yes. So I would like all you guys to make a stealth check, please.
Travis: Natural 20.
Laura: Oh shit! Flying carpet! Ooh, shit, and add ten, y'all.
Taliesin: 27.
Sam: 21.
Liam: I rolled a two, but it's a 37.
Ashley: That's ridiculous.
Laura: 39.
Liam: Built into the rules, man!
Matt: Yep, reliable rogues, man. That's what rogues are good at.
Marisha: 37.
Ashley: 28!
Travis: 30.
Matt: 30, okay! As you guys all descend, you get about halfway down the tunnel, and you can hear this occasional echo (clicking). And for those of you that have Darkvision, you look off to the side and you see there are these small openings, these tunnels in the sides, and occasionally you see a large insect-like creature skitter out (clicking) and then into another hole. None seem to see or notice your presence. You continue delving deeper and deeper and deeper. Looking up above, you can see the slowly vanishing circle of daylight above you, and as you continue further and further down, those of you with Darkvision, you begin to see a floor begin to approach.
Sam: Don't land?
Laura: Don't land.
Sam: Do we need light?
Travis: No, not yet. I halt the carpet 20 feet off the ground.
Matt: Okay. You halt the carpet.
Laura: And we're whispering. We're whispering, but we're not whispering so that people can hear. We're definitely whispering over--
Ashley: Can we see any little creature in the middle of anything?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: Can I look, too?
Sam: I have some sort of a cloak over my helm, since it emits light always.
Matt: Okay. It doesn't block all the light because it's the Helm of Brilliance. As you guys are being somewhat stealthy going down here, Taryon is still a slight beacon of fire. His helmet just emits a glow at all times.
Travis: Cool. Because insects don't love lights in the dark.
Marisha: I know.
Ashley: 25 for perception.
Laura: 22.
Matt: Okay. You glance about and you can see this opening at the bottom. There's some warping to the earth here. It's one large chamber that's almost peanut-shaped, it pinches in the center and closes around, and there's a small tunnel that leads off and then closes at the end. It appears to be what may have been some sort of mine shaft that has then collapsed on the opposite side, but the center here looks like there's some fallen barrels and chest pieces, and there are pieces of rods and rope and cords strewn about. And there's this ancient stone platform that rises up in the center, and what appears to be some sort of a small recess in the stonework there. It looks like it's the size of a football carved downward.
Sam: I was wrong. It only emits light when there's undead around.
Matt: Oh.
Laura: Is it emitting light? Is it like an orc?
Matt: It is currently not emitting light.
Laura: Should we just nuke it? Should we just nuke that thing?
Travis: The ancient platform? No, don't do that.
Laura: Oh, it was like a coffin. Does it look like a coffin?
Matt: You could probably get closer.
Taliesin: Let's get a little closer.
Laura: A teeny bit.
Matt: Okay. Because you're a ways from it and you have no light down here. Even with your Darkvision, you can make out some details. The closer you get, you see a number of small carvings in what looks like some sort of language that I don't believe you understand.
Taliesin: Celestial?
Matt: You don't see it. It's pitch-black for you, Mr. Human.
Laura: Abyssal? Draconic?
Matt: Nope.
Marisha: Primordial?
Matt: Nope.
Travis: Common.
Matt: Nope!
Taliesin: That would be amazing.
Ashley: Dwarvish. Gnomish.
Matt: Nope.
Travis: Giant?
Laura: Yeah, they're human. They can't see shit.
Matt: The humans are sitting there in pitch black, seeing this tiny little bead of light above and just hoping that someone's going to give them some indicator.
Laura: Should we cast some light down here?
Sam: Sure. We said that we had prepared our flashlights before, didn't we?
Taliesin: Oh, we have that low-light version! We have the red-light version of it.
Sam: Yes, we do. I'm going to mark off two of these.
Liam: I can get around very fast. Why don't I go look?
Sam: You want to borrow a flashlight?
Liam: I have a flashlight.
Taliesin: You don't speak Celestial.
Marisha: I can also just cast Daylight, by the by.
Sam: Well, that's what we have going in our flashlights, are Daylight spells.
Taliesin: Except they're lensed and contained.
Matt: It's contained, but it's still a single beam.
Taliesin: A beam of red light.
Matt: So you go ahead and get close on the broom.
Taliesin: And just start to see if I can make out what it is.
Matt: Right. You open up the hood of the light, and it immediately beams this stark red beam down on this portion, and you look at it. It is Celestial.
Taliesin: What does it say?
Matt: It appears to be runes of gestation and protection. It speaks of a seed, a guardian for ages to come: Symphior.
All: Symphior.
Taliesin: It's an incubator. This isn't a coffin. It hatched.
Ashley: So this is the opening of-- this is where it was.
Liam: Is it a guard cherub?
Matt: You notice as this pale white light begins to slowly appear a little ways ahead of you in the other side of the chamber. This light is emanating from some--
Taliesin: I snuff. The second.
Laura: And we back away from the thing.
Matt: You guys begin to drift back on the carpet, and you see this beacon of light hovering maybe ten feet up off the ground, about the same height that you guys were to the platform. And you see there what appears to be a cherub. It's a baby, or an infant, but it appears to be withered and gray, and its arms and legs hang limply, and it has these small, white angel-like wings, but the feathers are tattered and broken in places, and the head's lolled back, and as the glow grows from it, it goes (wheezes, screams) and gives out this heinous scream that echoes throughout the whole hall. You can't help but instinctually grab your ears. I would like you all to make a wisdom saving throw, please.
Laura: Advantage on!
Matt: Which, actually, you are immune to fear, so it does not affect you. However, it shakes the interior and you watch as small stones (thud) hitting the ground around you. You guys, looking up above, you can see that this scream is affecting the structure a little bit. I need you all to roll initiative.
Marisha: Oh, that's good!
Sam: Oh, that sucks.
Laura: Oh shit.
Matt: So we have, up here by the platform.
Liam: I rolled a 20 on the wisdom save we didn't need to make, and threw it away, and thought, "well, I wanted to keep it," and then I rolled again and I got another natural 20.
Marisha: Oh shit.
Sam: Whoa, look at that! There's a map.
Laura: Wow, it's cool-looking! Oh shit, we're right by the baby.
Liam: Where's the baby?
Matt: There it is.
Laura: Oh, that's the baby?
Matt: It's very tiny.
Laura: Oh, it's a mean baby. I feel like it could be saved, because it's--
Liam: When you say saved, do you mean killed?
Laura: I feel bad because it's a baby.
Matt: All right. Initiatives. 25 to 20, anybody?
Liam: 25.
Marisha: Holy shit.
Matt: Who rolled what?
Taliesin: 30.
Matt: Jesus Christ, Percy.
Liam: So what did you roll?
Taliesin: I rolled a 19, and my initiative is 11.
Ashley: Jeez.
Liam: Wow.
Taliesin: I am going to debate hard how dumb I'm about to be.
Liam: The dumbest.
Matt: All right. So 20 to 15.
Ashley: 20.
Marisha: 19.
Ashley: What did you get?
Liam: 25.
Ashley: You got a 25, okay.
Matt: All right. 15 to 10?
Laura: 12.
Matt: Ten to five.
Sam: Oh yeah.
Travis: Eight.
Sam: Six.
Matt: All righty. All right, guys, we're going to keep this coming at everyone fast, because we're going to make this happen. All right, first and foremost, as this creature emerges and you guys are in your respective places, Percival, you're up first.
Taliesin: Where am I?
Matt: You're up here near the top of the platform, where you saw the recess.
Taliesin: Goddamn it! Okay, so I'm far away from that little bugger, aren't I?
Matt: Yeah, it appeared on the opposite side of this double chamber. It's all up from there.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm going to hop off the broom.
Matt: Okay. So you hop off of there.
Taliesin: Actually, no. You're going to move towards it, I assume?
Laura: I'm so far below you in the initiative, though.
Taliesin: Okay, that's fair.
Sam: It's glowing, right, so we can see it even if we don't turn on flashlights and things?
Matt: You can see it, yes, but you cannot see the terrain around you.
Travis: I'm sure we're going to try and talk to it, right?
Sam: Yeah. Maybe it knows my family's name.
Matt: So Percival, what are you doing?
Taliesin: I'm going to hop off the broom, activate my boots and activate my gloves, and start running through that little choke point, and I'm going to get as close to and possibly on the wall of that choke point as humanly possible. The other side of the choke point.
Matt: Oh, this side? You can get about there. You don't quite get to the wall.
Taliesin: Okay. I can get about there?
Matt: You can get further, but currently the creature is out of your view.
Taliesin: That's fine. That's as far as I can get right now. That will be just fine. The gloves are charged, the boots are on, and I'm heading towards the wall.
Matt: Okay. That's your turn?
Taliesin: Yep.
Matt: All right. Vax?
Liam: Okay. Boots on, I'm going to arc over to ten feet away from the baby.
Matt: All right. About there?
Liam: Yeah. Where I am, is it straight up, or am I covered over here?
Matt: It's straight up. Where you see the walls are right now, even this is collapsed about here. In fact, I'd say, to keep it easier, I'll say that's a collapsed entrance there. But this is all a straight-up hole in the ground. It slowly funnels as it gets to the bottom.
Laura: Whoa.
Liam: All right. So action, action, bonus action. I'm going to cast Vow of Enmity on it.
Matt: All righty.
Liam: Then I'm going to throw Whisper at it.
Matt: All righty.
Liam: That is a 33 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: I'm going to cast Divine Smite on it.
Laura: Good job! Kill that celestial baby!
Liam: There's a lot of dice here.
Laura: Get all the bacon!
Liam: This is ten, plus psychic damage is 11. That's not very good. 11 plus Divine Smite is 12, 19, plus sneak attack damage. 19, 21, 26, 28, 29, 34, 36, 38. And there's nothing extra because it's celestial, not a fiend.
Matt: Correct.
Liam: All right. So that was bonus action, action, I'm going to use my action to then just fly away from the fucking thing, a hundred feet away diagonally up into the tunnel where I can still see it, hopefully. I'm hasted.
Matt: Right.
Liam: Movement was to get there. Bonus action for Vow of Enmity. Action to attack, and then my hasted action I can use for dash, hide, disengage.
Matt: Correct. Dash is your full movement, which is--
Liam: 60 normally, 120 feet hasted. I didn't make these rules or these items. (whoosh)
Matt: Cool.
Liam: Diagonally up. I'll fly by my sister, how's that?
Matt: You fly by your sister? Okay. No worries. That ends your turn. All right. Pike, you're up.
Ashley: Okay. I'm going to cast Beacon of Hope.
Matt: Actually, sorry. Before the end of your turn, it's going to go ahead and use a legendary action to use a terrain shift.
Travis: But it's just a baby!
Laura: Oh no! We're in its lair!
Matt: Yep. As you stab the creature, it (gasps). There's a horrible sucking sound as you dart back. It looks over in your direction. The wings flutter once and it brings its arms up, and as it does and you land next to your sister, you feel the air around you begin to freeze in cold. This energy's just (crackling). You feel ice crystals condense around, and both of you feel the air in your lungs suddenly begin to freeze up. I need both of you guys to make constitution saving throws.
Laura: Thanks for coming right next to me on that one. Goddamn it.
Liam: Natural 20.
Matt: Nice!
Laura: What am I doing, a constitution?
Matt: Constitution saving throw.
Laura: Nine.
Matt: All righty. 19 points of cold damage to you, Vex, and that is nine points of cold damage to you, Vax. And while you manage to pull out of this space of condensed cold, Vax, your sister, however, becomes stunned for one round as your body is frozen and locked in place.
Sam: Do we see any of this happen?
Matt: You watch the air coalesce into this frozen area, and while the broom is still holding you aloft, thankfully, you are standing there in place and the ice falls, clatters, and slams into the ground below you, sounding like the shattering of a hundred pieces of crystal across the stonework. Pike, now it's your turn.
Ashley: Okay. I'm going to cast Beacon of Hope. And for my bonus action, I'm going to pull out a spiritual weapon of a giant big greatsword.
Travis: Yeah!
Laura: A giant baby rattle that's directly in front of it.
Travis: Don't fight, play with this.
Matt: It's a level two spiritual weapon. Where are you putting the spiritual weapon?
Ashley: Right in front of the baby!
Matt: All right. I believe you get to make an attack with it, then, if you do.
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: All right. So.
Ashley: Oh, but I don't know if I want to hurt the baby. Did you do any damage?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Once again, roll for attack on that.
Ashley: Oh, that's not very good.
Matt: So you roll a d20 and add your spell attack modifier.
Ashley: 13.
Matt: 13. (whoosh) It swings, and the creature flaps out of the way and avoids the blow.
Ashley: Stupid piece of dice crap.
Matt: Are you going to move or stay where you are?
Laura: Oh yeah! I'm resistant to cold, Travis just reminded me! I have cold resistance because of my Vorugal armor.
Matt: You do.
Laura: Does that mean I roll again for--
Matt: No, you take half the damage, but you're still stunned.
Laura: Oh, okay. So that was 17?
Matt: You would take nine damage instead of the 19.
Liam: Nine instead of 18 is what you would've taken for it.
Laura: Okay, so add nine back.
Matt: So do you want to move with your turn?
Ashley: No, I'm going to stay.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: I'm going to stay. Because we're on the carpet, right? Grog, Percy, and I on the carpet?
Taliesin: I'm not on the carpet.
Ashley: You're not on the carpet anymore? Oh, the three of us. I'm going to stay on the carpet.
Taliesin: You can move the carpet forward, though.
Laura: Did Beacon of Hope get everybody?
Matt: Beacon of Hope. The range on that is 30 feet. 30-foot range gets everybody except for the elemental.
Marisha: That's cool.
Taliesin: What do we get?
Matt: Beacon of Hope, you have advantage on Wisdom saving throws, death saving throws, and you regain the max number of hit points possible from any healing.
Marisha: Sick.
Matt: All righty. That end your turn?
Ashley: Yes.
Laura: Death saving throw is huge. And healing is huge.
Matt: At the end of your turn, the creature goes (raspy breathing) and you watch as the ground right beneath the carpet explodes. It peels back as molten lava suddenly begins to spill up in a column beneath you, splattering up and to the back and over the top of the carpet. I need everybody in this cluster, this ten-foot-by-ten-foot section, to make a dexterity saving throw.
Sam: Not good, but maybe I'm lucky. Oh, am I not in that? Where am I?
Taliesin: You're over on the corner.
Sam: I have no idea where I am.
Laura: You're next to the big white thing.
Sam: I am?
Matt: So Grog, Pike, and Keyleth.
Sam: Oh, well then, never mind.
Travis: Danger sense 18.
Matt: Danger sense 18.
Marisha: 17.
Ashley: Natural 20.
Matt: Natural 20 plus, what's your--
Ashley: One! 21!
Matt: Pike's the only one who made it.
Ashley: What?
Matt: Pike, you suffer 21 points of fire damage, halved because of your armor, so you only take ten. Ten points of fire damage.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: I need you to go ahead and make a concentration check on Beacon of Hope.
Laura: You got this. You got this, Pike.
Matt: Just roll a constitution saving throw.
Travis: Fucking molten lava!
Matt: Keyleth and Grog, you guys both take 42 points of fire damage.
Travis: Oh, it was nice being over 250 for a little while.
Ashley: Fucking fuck.
Matt: The ground below you right now is currently in flames, and you guys have to stick around that space there. The open ground is billowing flame and lava now, and the area around that platform is searing hot. So what did you roll?
Ashley: Five.
Matt: A five with your--
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: Yeah. You lose Beacon of Hope. Sorry.
Laura: What is it? You have to get above half of the damage you took, is that what it is?
Matt: You have to get above half the damage you took or ten, whichever is higher.
Laura: Oh.
Travis: Do we stay on the carpet or are we knocked off?
Matt: You guys can choose to stay on the carpet. You pull out of the way, and now the area is just billowing with lava and flame. Keyleth, it's your turn.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to take and control my air elemental and send him over.
Matt: All right. You took how much damage? 42?
Marisha: 42.
Matt: Make a concentration check. Constitution saving throw.
Marisha: So I have to get over-- I have advantage on these.
Matt: Yes. You have to get over a 21.
Sam: Over a 21!
Matt: A 21 or over.
Marisha: What's 17 plus four?
Sam: 21.
Matt: 21. You just maintain concentration.
Laura: Good roll!
Marisha: Thank you, Gil! All right. So (boom) I send him over with my staff. It has 90-feet fly speed.
Matt: 90-feet flying speed? Yeah, he gets over there easy. Plops on over.
Marisha: And he's going to go ahead and do a Whirlwind. The creatures in his space have to make a DC 13 strength saving throw.
Matt: Okay. Nope. This is not a very strong creature.
Marisha: That's what I hoped. They take 3d8 plus two bludgeoning damage.
Matt: Go ahead and roll the damage on that, yeah.
Marisha: Oh, that's nasty. 12 plus seven is 19 plus two, so 21. And they are flung up to 20 feet away from the elemental in a random direction and knocked prone.
Matt: Random direction, I'll roll for that. Okay. That's going to fling him 20 feet into the five, ten, 15, 20 into the wall right there, and prone.
Marisha: And are knocked prone.
Liam: Stupid baby.
Marisha: Do I still have line of sight?
Matt: To it right now, no. You would have to get off the carpet to go.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm going to get off the carpet and walk over just to where I have line of sight.
Matt: Okay. At the top of your turn, by the way, you suffer eight points of fire damage by the proximity to the flaming platform there.
Marisha: Even though my mantle allows me to ignore the penalties of dangerous weather effects?
Matt: It's not so much a weather effect. It's more that there's a heaping column of molten rock.
Travis: Your old friend, molten lava.
Matt: Eight points of fire damage. And I need you to make another concentration check.
Sam: Oh no, another concentration check!
Marisha: I'm a warcaster, though, man! Because that's eight, so I just have to get over a ten, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: What is this considered, Underdark, or a dungeon?
Marisha: Rolled a 13.
Matt: This is considered subterranean, not Underdark. Cavern. All right, so you've done that. What do you want to do, Keyleth? You're over here.
Marisha: Okay. Can I move over to where I have line of sight?
Matt: Yeah, so you leap over and you get line of sight on him right there.
Marisha: Okay, can I do Blight?
Matt: Sure. What's the DC on that?
Marisha: I think my spell level, so 20.
Matt: And it's a constitution saving throw, I believe?
Marisha: 8d8.
Matt: Six plus ten, so it's a 16.
Marisha: No, fail.
Matt: Yeah. So roll your 8d8 necrotic damage.
Laura: Get it!
Matt: Yeah, no. Even with advantage on the save, it rolled a six and a four.
Marisha: One, two, three, four. Give me two more. One more, and another.
Taliesin: I don't know if I have another.
Marisha: Give me a d8. Okay.
Taliesin: And you reroll ones, right?
Marisha: No, on elementals. Four, five, nine, 14, plus eight is 22, plus four is 26, plus two is 28. 28 Blight damage.
Matt: Nice. As you reach, it's on the ground. It's trying to get back up, and its wings are flapping, and all of a sudden you watch as its gray, withered skin turns dark black on one half of its body and it (screech) shrieks out and gives another scream (hoarse scream) from the ground, and the area quakes again, and you feel the ground shimmy a bit. The ground beneath you, as its last legendary action, begins to give way. Keyleth, I need you to make a dexterity saving throw.
Marisha: Fucking lava!
Taliesin: Didn't you move? Wait, no, you moved, didn't you?
Matt: Yeah, this is a different area.
Marisha: That's not bad. 19. No, 18?
Matt: Nope. So as you finish casting this and you hear it scream, you cover your ears, and suddenly the ground moves out beneath you. You watch as the actual floor (whoosh).
Marisha: I turn to everyone behind me and I go, aw, fuck!
Matt: As you watch Keyleth plummet into a pit below. You take eight points of bludgeoning damage and the ground (whoosh) covers over her.
Marisha: It's fine.
Matt: Keyleth vanishes. The ground seems to swallow her up. Keyleth, the entire pit collapses in on you, and you're currently restrained underground, and you cannot breathe.
Marisha: All right.
Taliesin: That's fixable.
Sam: But can you cast things while you can't move?
Matt: I need you to make another concentration check.
Marisha: On my elemental?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: Yeah, 13 plus my constitution, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm good.
Matt: Okay. That ends your turn, Keyleth?
Travis: Matt, can you point to where the cherub is?
Matt: I am, because it's his turn. The cherub creature, this Symphior, begins to fly up off the ground and make its way back in this direction, out into the open once more.
Liam: Keeps everyone from getting a good night's sleep.
Laura: He needs a nap.
Ashley: He has a dirty diaper. He's mad.
Liam: It's been a thousand years!
Matt: As it floats upward, it looks over towards where-- let's see, because all it sees is you two. You both are still in the flames right there. It's not worried about the fire at the moment. It sees you, Taryon, and goes (hoarse wheezing) and lifts its hands up. I need you to go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Sam: I'm feeling lucky. Natural 20! Plus one.
Matt: That's great. So you only suffer 11 points of piercing damage.
Sam: Hey, that's not bad.
Matt: As you leap out of the way, you watch as the ground suddenly turns into a series of earthlike spikes underneath, and some pierce you and scratch you and you roll out of the way. You barely move off to the side, where now you see this giant, jutting series of spike-like pillars forcing up from the ground. All right, that's going to end that attack, and it's going to use the rest of its movement to move back (whoosh) over to there in the corner. That brings us back to Vex. It's your turn now.
Laura: Yeah, I'm frozen.
Matt: Yeah, so you're stunned, and that's your turn.
Laura: Yay.
Matt: You eventually break the ice off at the end of your turn, and you're breathing heavily and trying to get the feeling back in your skin. That's your go. Grog, you're up.
Travis: What does it take to activate the coin?
Sam: You have to slap it on yourself.
Matt: It's an action.
Travis: Yeah? Just an action?
Matt: Which spell do you have?
Travis: It's the Jump coin, three times my--
Matt: What's the casting time of Jump?
Sam: It's touch.
Matt: What's the casting time of Jump?
Sam: It lasts a minute. It's instantaneous. You just touch, right?
Taliesin: No, is it a bonus action?
Matt: So that would be your action to use it on yourself.
Travis: Oh, damn. It's that whole shit, yo. All right. (grunts) I'm going to jump! And I would like to rage as my bonus action. And with my new Jump coin, I would like to jump with my Boots of Feral Leaping. It's three times my horizontal jump speed, which is 20 feet, so 60 feet.
Matt: Okay. You also take seven points of fire damage at the start of your turn, because you're by this flame.
Travis: Oh, got it. Nice, that's fine. And can I jump towards the baby? Actually just to the right of the-- just over here.
Matt: Over to this side there?
Travis: Yeah, right there.
Matt: Okay, yeah. You run (whoosh, thud) land next to it.
Travis: Nice. Do I have any movement left?
Matt: With the run and the jump, you have maybe ten feet.
Travis: Okay. I want to get right up on him.
Matt: Yeah, you're right up on him.
Travis: Never mind. I'm good. Rage, jump, no more action. Titanstone Knuckles? Next round. Okay.
Matt: You have an action, still.
Travis: Oh, I do?
Matt: Well, no, because you said it's a bonus action to do the leap? What's it say on that? Just to do the leap, right? It was the run. You still have an action.
Travis: I want to hit him.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: Great weapon master, reckless attack.
Matt: Okay!
Travis: That's a 26.
Matt: 26 with the minus five? Yeah, that hits.
Travis: Nice. 12. Where are you? I should have gotten this beforehand. Nice! Plus ten. 37.
Matt: All righty. That's your first strike.
Travis: Oh, I get another one!
Matt: You have extra attack, man!
Travis: 11, 24.
Matt: 24 does not hit. It's a tiny size. It's hard to swing at, and as your axe almost catches it, it (whoosh) out of the way.
Travis: Okay. Good to know. I whiff. That's it. I just have the two.
Matt: Yep, that's your turn. At the end of your turn, because it's reset back to its ground, it's going to go ahead and look to you in front of it and go (hoarse breathing). Make a dexterity check.
Travis: Okay. Saving throw or just dexterity?
Matt: Dexterity saving throw, sorry.
Travis: I get two of those. That's better. 19.
Matt: The ground crumbles beneath you and you suddenly (whoosh) fall below. You are raging. It would've been 12 points of bludgeoning damage, but it becomes six. But you are suddenly buried and restrained underground.
Liam: Got that slick stuff on you? Crisco oil?
Travis: But that's my next turn. That happens on my turn.
Taliesin: Yeah, you burn five feet of movement to get out of it.
Travis: Can I get out of it if I'm buried in soil, though?
Matt: Freedom of Movement. I'll say it doesn't have--
Marisha: That's why I cast it on him, man.
Taliesin: You parkour around the rocks as they try and--
Matt: Well, he's buried in the ground, regardless. That's the effect. He didn't avoid the burying. So I guess you'd just, if you want to use your action to try to escape, you do so.
Laura: You could enlarge, maybe. You can enlarge and come up out of it.
Matt: All right. That ends that go. Taryon, you're up.
Sam: Me? Oh god. All right. I don't have anything I can do. I will click my Boots of Speed, making me faster, and then I will move. Full movement of 60 feet towards him-- or her. We don't know, do we?
Laura: Is it wearing a diaper, or is its dangly bits hanging out?
Liam: Is a peeper hanging out?
Sam: Is it naked?
Matt: You've got a pretty close look, if you wanted to take a moment to inspect.
Liam: It's a boy!
Sam: We're trying to kill this thing, yeah?
Travis: Yeah!
Sam: I guess I'll punch a baby. It's going to miss, though. That's a slippery baby, right?
Matt: At 60 feet of movement, you're not quite within melee range of it.
Sam: No, I was going to use my Ring of the Ram.
Matt: Oh, that'll do.
Sam: But I'm probably not going to hit, because it's got an amazing AC.
Liam: Got any Luck left?
Sam: Yeah, I do.
Taliesin: See what happens.
Liam: Got to do something.
Sam: Is this going to be a long fight? I'll do all three charges of the Ring of the Ram, and punch a baby.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and roll for an attack.
Sam: Eight. Not good enough, I'll use Luck. 13 plus nine? 22.
Ashley: Wait! Can I War God's Blessing?
Matt: What's the range on War God's Blessing?
Ashley: Let's see. 30 feet?
Matt: No, he's out of range for that, unfortunately. Sorry!
Liam: I wanted that baby to be punched so bad.
Matt: As you (ring firing), it (whoosh) out of the way and the fist goes by. Slamming into the wall. (crash)
Taliesin: One day, it's going to be epic.
Sam: It worked once.
Matt: It got you a kill. The marid.
Liam: That little baby just Zatoichi-ed out of the way.
Matt: Yeah, so you're just like, (ring firing). No effect. It dodges out of the way. And now you can see its weird, lifeless white eyes turn towards you once more.
Sam: Oh, great.
Matt: That end your turn?
Sam: Yep.
Matt: All righty. Let's see here. It's going to go ahead and use another ability now. As it sees that you're closed in, it glances over, and you watch as suddenly, a bunch of stonework just (rushing noise) up in the center of the area, as now--
Marisha: Oh, fuck. One of these guys. What? A wall?
Matt: A giant stone wall suddenly shoots up above to about 40 feet.
Sam: We got this, guys. Don't worry. Me and Grog got it. Me and buried-Grog and buried-Keyleth, we got this.
Marisha: Wait, you're buried, too?
Sam: No, you are and Grog is.
Marisha: I'm under the wall, right?
Matt: You're underneath right over here. You're on the outskirts of the wall.
Sam: It's just me and the baby right now?
Matt: Yeah, you and the baby, and an air elemental, and a giant sword that's swinging.
Marisha: Yeah, my air elemental is there.
Sam: Oh, great. I'm fine, then.
Matt: But you lose vision entirely, Pike. Just (rushing noise) wall's in front of you. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: So is the wall hitting the roof?
Matt: No, the wall would have to go way high. It's about 40 feet up.
Taliesin: I'm going to run up to the top of that wall.
Matt: Your movement will not get you to the top. Because you only move 30 feet.
Taliesin: How far will my movement get me?
Matt: It'll get you about there.
Ashley: Parkour!
Travis: Like some unmotivated Spider-Man.
Taliesin: In that case-- oh fuck, I've got nothing I can do.
Matt: I'll put you right there to remind us, but you're almost at the top of the wall at your full movement.
Taliesin: Well, then I will burn my action to dash up.
Matt: Okay. You get to the top of the wall, there, and you can now see it.
Taliesin: And I assume I can get part of the way down the wall as well with my action?
Matt: You can get partway down the wall, yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah, so I just want to start making my way, I'm going Spider-man.
Matt: So you get about, I'll say, there on the opposite side.
Taliesin: That was definitely irritating.
Matt: That's your turn, Percy?
Taliesin: That, and I'm going to cast Hex on that little baby. And he has disadvantage on, let's make it his wisdom checks.
Matt: Okay. All right. At the end of your turn, Percy. Let's see, it's going to go ahead and use--
Taliesin: That's a lot of actions, this creature.
Matt: It's legendary actions. It manipulates the area around it. Because you are currently standing on the side there. No, you know what, it's going to hold off. It's not going to do anything. Vax, you're up.
Taliesin: I haven't actually technically attacked it.
Liam: I know what I want to do. You tell me what I can do. First thing I want to do is cast Bless on-- I grab Vex, cast Bless on us and Pike, I have a range of 30 feet on it.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Is that bonus? No, I don't want to do that. I don't want to do that. I fly straight at Pike and I'm going to lift her up.
Matt: Okay, you immediately take eight points of fire damage by getting close to the flames to grab her. It's like (fire noises).
Liam: Sure. And then is it an action to grab and an action to lift and carry over?
Matt: I'd say it would be an action to grab her enough, and you're going to move at half speed with her.
Liam: Which is still a ton at this point.
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: And that's all I need is the action to grab her and movement to go over?
Matt: Action, and your movement there was about there, I'd say you'll get your action and your movement will get you to up above the wall.
Liam: Okay. Action and movement will. All right, then I will leave her on top of the wall, and I will use my bonus action to fly within range of baby, and I should have one action left, yeah? Action, action, bonus action, hasted.
Matt: Right. Hold on, no. You used an action to pick up Pike. You brought her up there, you moved, you have another action and a bonus action. You have an action and a bonus action. But the extra action that you have is from your haste, which means it can be used for either a melee attack or ranged.
Liam: Great. So the bonus action I will use to dash towards baby. And my final, hasted attack action, I will stay 30 feet away from the baby, though, in the air, and I will throw Whisper with my last, hasted action.
Matt: Okay. There you go. Put you down there.
Liam: And that's a 25, which hits, yeah?
Matt: That hits. That just hits, yeah.
Liam: One, and can I dump Smite into this?
Matt: If you'd like to, yeah.
Liam: I would like to. There's nine plus psychic damage is 16 plus-- 20, 26, and here comes the sneak attack damage, 26, 27, 29, 30, 33, 37, 43, 47.
Matt: 47? Nice. As you swipe down to (whoosh) fling Whisper out, it slams right into the chest of the creature and it impales it off the back side and there's the burst of divine energy inside, but you see the divine energy matches its own, and what looks like a blow that would've killed the creature, it's like, (raspy inhale). Turns back towards you, and gives another scream as the dagger returns to you. End of your turn?
Liam: That's the end of my turn.
Matt: All right, at the end of your turn, it's going to use its last legendary action. It's going to use another cold snap. You feel the air around you, familiar, (whoosh) condense, and the ice cling to you. The air in your lungs freezes solid, it seems. Go ahead and roll a constitution saving throw.
Liam: Going to use another Luck. 25.
Matt: 25 will succeed, all right. So you shrug off the stunned effect, but you do still suffer the halved damage. 13 points of cold damage. All righty. Pike, you're up. Top of your turn, you suffer no damage, because you got out of the fire. You're at the top of the wall now.
Ashley: All right. If I climb down there, it's an athletics thing?
Matt: Yes.
Ashley: Oh, okay. I'll climb down.
Matt: Roll an athletics check. It's 40 feet down. So that's going to be a long climb.
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: Oh no.
Travis: Oh, is it really? Is it fucking really?
Matt: It's a natural one?
Ashley: Yeah.
Travis: Who put her on the top of a 40 foot wall?
Laura: Just picked her up and dropped her there.
Ashley: Wait!
Liam: She can see and cast spells!
Ashley: I have Feather Fall with my shield.
Matt: You do. So you use your reaction to cast Feather Fall on yourself as you stumble off the side, and as you plummet about 20 or so of the 40 feet (whoosh, soft impact) and you land unscathed on the ground.
Ashley: Okay. Is that just my action?
Matt: That's your reaction to do that. With the shield.
Ashley: Okay. How close am I to the baby? Can I get to the baby?
Matt: Not physically. It's over here and you're at the base of the wall.
Liam: It's like 50 feet.
Ashley: All right.
Matt: You can get within range to it.
Ashley: So you know what? I'm going to (sings) Guiding Bolt the baby!
Matt: Okay, what level?
Ashley: Let's do five. 5th-level.
Matt: Oh, shit, okay. Go ahead and roll for an attack on that. Wait, is Guiding Bolt an attack? No, is it a saving throw? I think it's a saving throw, isn't it? I always forget that. No, it's a ranged spell attack, so you have to roll to hit it. Go ahead and roll a d20 and add your spell attack modifier.
Ashley: It's not enough I don't think. 19? I will use Guided Strike.
Matt: Because you can do that! Guided Strike, you get to add that to your own attack?
Ashley: Yep.
Travis: Channel Divinity.
Matt: (laughs) Still checking it. Guided Strike. Yeah, plus ten to the roll. That'll do it. 29, boom. Go ahead and roll damage on that.
Ashley: How many sixes? Let's see.
Matt: Well it's four levels above that, so it's 8d6 radiant damage.
Ashley: I'll get five, six, seven, eight. Okay, so we've got six, 12. Help me out here, guys. 18. Oh, wow.
Laura: You rolled a lot of sixes!
Ashley: Whoa!
Travis: She rolled six sixes.
Matt: Six sixes?
Marisha: What do you mean?
Liam: She rolled a ton of sixes.
Ashley: 42.
Matt: 42 points?
Travis: I'm looking at them.
Laura: They're all sixes.
Ashley: We choose to kill this celestial baby not because it is easy, but because it is hard!
Matt: So as you land gently on the ground after plummeting head over heels. (thuds, fire blast) Holding your holy symbol before you, you watch as this beam of condensed divine energy rockets across, and this tiny, floating, withered planar baby (fire blast) gets blasted. You watch as the wings get pushed back. It's holding itself in place, but you see the dark shadow outline as the energy is blasting through it. As it hits, its wings recoil, and it's still floating there, but you can see this sparkly outline of divine energy, because the next attack on it has advantage.
Ashley: Do I still have a bonus action?
Matt: You do. Your sword's still up.
Ashley: I'll use the spiritual weapon.
Matt: Spiritual weapon, you can move 20 feet as a bonus action. It moves up and takes a swipe. Go ahead and roll an attack.
Ashley: Oh crap, my boots are stuck together. How is this happening? Okay. Yeah, the hook on the top there.
Laura: That's how she fell off the wall.
Ashley: Ooh. That's a 29.
Matt: 29 hits! Yeah, so go ahead and roll the damage for the spiritual weapon, which is 1d8 plus five, I think, for you. Whatever your wisdom modifier is.
Ashley: Sorry, guys. I don't know what I'm doing. Oh, that's not a lot. Seven.
Matt: Seven points of damage. It all helps. All righty. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: I'm underground, right?
Matt: You're underground, you are restrained, you are blind. You cannot see anything.
Marisha: (growls) I'm going to go earth elemental.
Matt: Okay!
Taliesin: I'm amazed he didn't already have it out of the bag.
Matt: And with that ability, you get an earthglide, and this is a non-issue for you. All righty, Keyleth. So you are an earth elemental.
Travis: Damn!
Marisha: Do I have enough movement to earthglide to them?
Matt: What's your speed?
Marisha: I think 60, earthglide?
Matt: 60, earthglide? Yeah, totally. You're moving into melee with the baby?
Marisha: Okay, can I come up from underground, grab them, and then beat them into the ground?
Matt: Sure. Go ahead and roll a slam attack.
Taliesin: Puny god!
Matt: Make two slam attacks, so roll twice. It's plus eight to attack each time.
Marisha: That's cocked. Natural 20 on that one, and a four on a second one, which is 12.
Matt: Yeah, that misses. MARISHA; Okay, but that one is a natural 20.
Matt: As you reach up out of the ground from underneath, (impact noise) your fingers clasp around the celestial baby and (whack) slam it into the ground as hard as you can. Go ahead and roll damage on that. 2d8 plus five, so roll the 2d8.
Marisha: And then you double the 2d8.
Matt: You double whatever you rol for the 2d8 and then add plus five. Crit that baby. It's our next t-shirt: Crit that baby!
Marisha: Six doubled, which is 12, plus five doubled, which is ten, so that's 22.
Matt: The bonus isn't doubled. Just the dice.
Marisha: I know. Just the dice is 22, plus five. So 27.
Matt: That's great. 27 points of damage. (wham) Slamming onto the ground. As your hand retracts up, you can see the wings are-- as it starts to fly up, it (gasps).
Marisha: And I just want to hold onto it and be like, yo! Yo, air elemental! And then let my air elemental come over and do its thing. Double slam attack.
Matt: Go for it.
Marisha: Slam attack. No, I'm going to do a multi attack. Two slam attacks. So 2d8 plus eight, once again. That's an 18 and a 17. Plus eight.
Matt: 18 and 17 plus eight?
Marisha: Yeah, so 26 and 25.
Matt: Both hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Marisha: Which is 3d8 plus two. So the first one, oh! Six, seven, eight, plus seven, which is 15. For the first one, 15 plus two. 17. And then the second one is eight, plus two fives, which is 18 plus two, so 20.
Matt: Nice.
Taliesin: And he gets flung in a random direction?
Matt: No, this was just hitting it. (impacts) All righty. That's the end of your turn? All right. As it comes back to the entity's turn, it's looking really, really rough. And as part of that, it's going to reach into itself. Its hands push into its torso, and as it screams, (raspy scream) it gives out this horrible scream as it tears some of its chest open, and from the inside, where you imagine it would be a ribcage, it's this impossibly bright light that echoes out in a shockwave, affecting everybody except for Vex, actually. I need everybody else to make a constitution saving throw.
Taliesin: All of us?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Oh boy. That don't look good.
Taliesin: We don't have advantage on this, do we?
Matt: Nope!
Taliesin: I'm going to burn a Resolve.
Marisha: Constitution  that's part of my physical stats as being an elemental, correct? It's con, strength, and dex. Never mind. Yeah.
Matt: So?
Sam: 22.
Matt: 22. That succeeds.
Taliesin: 17.
Marisha: 15.
Liam: 24.
Matt: That succeeds. Pike?
Ashley: 11.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: 25.
Matt: Succeeds. Everyone who succeeds, you suffer 48 points of radiant damage.
Sam: Radiant damage?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: 48 on a success. Whoa.
Matt: If you failed, you took 96 points of radiant damage.
Taliesin: Wait, that's magical. I have advantage. The cloak wouldn't--
Matt: The cloak doesn't say a spell effect?
Taliesin: Against spells and other magical effects.
Matt: Technically, because it's not a leveled spell, it's just a radiant blast, it would not affect it.
Taliesin: It wouldn't have given me advantage on that save?
Matt: No, it wouldn't.
Ashley: 96, you said?
Matt: 96 points of radiant damage. So Keyleth, I need you-- your elemental has gone berserk.
Marisha: There's no way.
Matt: Aside of rolling a 20. Go for it. Just try.
Marisha: Unless I roll a nat 20? They just do their own thing if you fail.
Travis: What do you got to roll, a 20? Percy, bless that shit.
Matt: Even so, I'm letting you have this opportunity.
Marisha: I rolled a 19.
Matt: Nope. So as the Conjure Elemental spell fails, the control of your elemental shifts, and now it's aggressively turning its attention towards you and the rest of your party.
Marisha: Can I not fade it after this? Oh, I can drop concentration on it and then it will go away, right?
Matt: No. That's not how this works.
Travis: Did you just put--
Liam: A new enemy on the map.
Sam: A new opponent enters.
Marisha: To be fair, didn't it also get affected by the blast?
Matt: Yeah, actually. Roll a constitution saving throw for the air elemental. It's a plus two.
Marisha: I rolled a 13, plus two, so 15.
Matt: The air elemental is actually destroyed. To your advantage, strangely.
Marisha: It only has 90 hit points, so it's fine, guys! It's fine.
Matt: All right, so the entity looks like it's barely hanging on, and you see parts of its internal body falling out from where it tore its chest open. It's going to use a bonus action to Misty Step out of this vicinity over to here. It's going to use its movement to fly high up, almost trying to escape the cavern now. It's up in that region right there. We'll say, here. On top of this. Turn that away.
Laura: Oh, look how teeny! I can finally see it.
Ashley: Above a fountain.
Liam: It's a faerie dragon.
Laura: It's so teeny.
Matt: All righty. Vex, you're up.
Laura: I guess I'll fly up so I can see over the wall. I have no idea what's going on.
Matt: You fly up and you see everyone below is wrecked, the ground is charred with some sort of a radiant blast. You watched it flash over the wall itself, like a small, rapid recreation of the intro of Akira. (boom) This big, arcing ball of white energy.
Laura: Wow. Can I Hunter's Mark the baby?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: And then I'm going to try to shoot the baby with my Blazing Bowstring. That would be a 30. And I'm going to make it a bramble shot.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Ball of vines in the air.
Laura: DC of 17.
Matt: Strength?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: I actually rolled a natural 17.
Laura: Motherfucker. Okay, well.
Matt: But it still takes the damage.
Laura: Still 4d8 extra. Well. 17, plus five is 22, plus eight is 30, plus two is 32, plus 1d6 lightning damage... 35, plus 1d6 for Hunter's Mark is 40.
Matt: 40, nice! So as it hits, you watch as the brambles try and wrap around it, but it actually flies free.
Laura: Oh wait! Plus the blazing bowstring, another two fire damage.
Matt: 42 total. You can see more of it's just falling out of its small, decomposing torso, and it's trying to fly upward now, towards the light. It's on the edge.
Laura: I want to try to do the same thing again.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Laura: With a Blazing Bowstring again. 28.
Matt: 28 hits. Roll damage.
Laura: Okay, bramble shot again, because I get two, motherfucker! That's ten for my Blazing Bowstring. Oh, Jesus H. Macy. 19, plus five is 24, plus eight is 32, 36. Oh my god, 34. 38, plus ten is 48.
Matt: How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Travis: Frozen no more! Freeze me at your peril!
Laura: Be free, little angel baby. We shall feast tonight! That's so gross. And I just shoot the baby.
Matt: All right. As you pull back as it's fluttering up, you take aim and release, and as the arrow strikes it, you can see, the same way the dagger hit the baby, it hits it, and throws it, the sheer force of the arrow against the wall, and pins it there like it's stapled to the rock. As it reaches over to try and pull the arrow out, and it begins to, suddenly the arrow (whoosh) breaks into a bunch of bramble vines that begin to wrap around it, and you watch as the tiny baby arm and wing try and reach out (choking) as it constricts and twists and slowly constrains it until you see it (crack) pop and go limp on the inside of the vines. And as the vines unfurl, what was physically there is slowly dissipating into a glitter-like powder. The body dissipating and falling apart.
Laura: I mean, it was an evil baby, right?
Travis: Yeah, nobody likes glitter.
Marisha: Yeah, glitter gets everywhere.
Laura: Should we get out of here?
Travis: (muffled) I don't mean to be rude!
Marisha: I run over to Grog. I'm still an elemental, yeah? I am still an elemental. Where is he?
Matt: You don't know, actually.
Sam: I saw it. I'll point down.
Marisha: You point. I earthglide and I find him.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: And I can do double damage to structures. Can I beat him out?
Matt: I'd say you could probably, over time, yeah. You have enough constitution to be fine.
Marisha: I don't want to kill him by suffocating.
Matt: No, he's fine. He can hold his breath for six minutes. He's got a really high constitution, so you're fine. You slowly pummel the rock out from his way and pull Grog out from the interior of the stone floor.
Taliesin: Yeah, we should head out and bug bomb the place.
Travis: Don't we need proof?
Taliesin: Grab the body. Let's go.
Sam: There's no body!
Marisha: I go over to the glitter and I get some of my potion bottles from my alchemy to-- Oh, I'm actually good at this. I try and harvest some, sweep some glitter.
Matt: Okay. So you gather some glitter in.
Taliesin: Really quick, just look around, is there anything of value to grab before we run?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Sam: I'll look, too.
Laura: While she's doing that, can I just look over the ground and see if there's any platinum deposits?
Sam: We could do a quick mining.
Matt: I mean, there are a number of visible edges of veins.
Liam: Is there 230,000 gold worth?
Sam: Probably. We could stay here for a couple months.
Matt: In this whole mine, there's a lot of platinum, but you have to mine it. And as you guys are having this moment, you begin to hear the loud sound of hundreds of large insect-like creatures climbing their way down the walls.
Laura: Oh god. Get to the middle and get in the air.
Marisha: Okay, so I get everybody in the middle. Is everyone ready?
Travis: I need help.
Taliesin: We pulled you out.
Marisha: What do you mean, you need help?
Travis: I'm on the other side of the 40-foot wall from the carpet.
Marisha: I go (boom) and I pull Grog through.
Laura: No, the carpet. We just got to get the carpet. I can go down and grab the carpet.
Marisha: Oh, the carpet. I take a few minutes as my earth elemental self to beast through...
Laura: We don't have a few minutes.
Marisha: I can do double damage to structures.
Laura: You don't have to do that. I can go get the carpet. I'm right there.
Marisha: Oh, okay. Go get the carpet.
Matt: Okay. So you rush over and grab the carpet. And you guys begin to make your way back up through.
Laura: Are we bamfing out or are we flying up?
Taliesin: I think we're flying up and if we see anything we'll just take shots at anything that's rolling around, if anything is visible. Let's just do damage on our way out.
Marisha: Oh, we're doing damage as we fly out.
Liam: Or we could Tree Stride out?
Taliesin: We can't Tree Stride. There's no trees.
Laura: Or we can Plane Shift.
Matt: There is a small tree growing out of the side of the wall from where you killed the creature, but it's not large enough for that spell.
Laura: But still really cool!
Matt: Yeah, it grows and twists out, like a bonsai curves upward.
Laura: I hope that it slowly becomes a forest underground.
Travis: They're going to chop it down as they mine the platinum.
Matt: All right, so you guys are coasting up through the shaft?
Marisha: Oh, are we just riding up?
Travis: Straight up.
Marisha: Broom and carpet? Broom and carpet.
Matt: Okay. You guys begin heading up through the center column of this opening. As you're moving up, are you staying in the darkness?
Laura: Can you Daylight or something, like up and out?
Marisha: I can. Do we need to?
Taliesin: You know, at this point, it might be.
Marisha: On the top of my spire I cast Daylight.
Matt: Okay. So (boom) this light now emerges from this area, and as you can see now through this cavern around you, there's about a dozen or so of these large ankheg creatures, about every 30 feet or so, 40 feet up. You're in the center of-- you look up and you can see easily the hundred that you saw earlier have all been drawn to the surface by the screams of this creature. And as you begin rocketing up with this Daylight spell, you watch as some of them start hanging upward in your direction. You start hearing this sound, (hiss).
Marisha: Are they attracted to the Daylight?
Matt: They're apparently attracted to your presence. It is a line shot. I'm going to go ahead and have, let's see here. Percy and Vex, I need you guys to both make a constitution saving throw.
Travis: Oh shit. Oh god, we did not-- pretty sure you said that last time, before you turned into Chef Boyardee.
Matt: Sorry, sorry, not constitution. Dexterity, my apologies.
Laura: Dexterity saving throw? That is so much better.
Taliesin: Should I reroll? Yeah, I'll reroll.
Laura: Should you reroll?
Matt: Yeah, roll again; it's fine.
Laura: 27.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: Yeah, you both make it. So you both suffer eight points of acid damage.
Taliesin: I want to start taking shots as high up as I can see, I want to start taking shots at these things.
Laura: Yeah, I'll do the same thing.
Matt: There are over a hundred. And they take more than a few shots to go. We'll say you start picking them off, a few as you go, but you watch them fall past you. There's just such a mass number of them. As you guys get up another 40 or so feet, (spray sound) again. From three different ones. All right, I need Taryon, Percival, and Vex again to make dexterity saving throws.
Sam: Natural 20!
Matt: Nice!
Travis: Nice!
Taliesin: I'll live with that. 17.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 23.
Matt: Okay, six points of acid damage to the three of you.
Sam: Halved to three for me.
Matt: You make your way up even further. You're about halfway up this tunnel at this point and now you're getting to the heavy cluster of these creatures. At this point, a large cluster of them begin to spray all across. I need all of you guys to make two dexterity saving throws. Anybody get lower than a 13?
Taliesin: Nope.
Ashley: I did.
Travis: I did.
Matt: For one?
Travis: For the second one.
Marisha: Lower than a 13?
Matt: Yeah. That would be all of you except for Pike and Grog take a total of 14 points of acid damage. Both of you guys, for the purposes of this, take 21 points of acid damage.
Sam: You okay there, Pikey-pants?
Ashley: Yeah, I'm fine!
Travis: I'm okay.
Matt: As you're shooting and you hear the gunfire (gunshots) going off, you fire the arrows. More and more of these ankhegs are falling and crumbling off. You hear the (screeching) as they streak past you, plummeting into the darkness below. Even more so, throwing streams out. However, their numbers are starting to thin because you've gone past the thick part of it. Vax, Pike, and Grog. The three of you guys roll dexterity saving throws, please.
Travis: 12.
Liam: 19.
Ashley: 18.
Travis: 12.
Matt: All right. Six points of acid damage, six points of acid damage, 12 points of acid damage.
Laura: How much further do we have to go up?!
Matt: You guys, with the brooms and the carpet, it's not super fast. Putting up there again. You get about three-quarters of the way up.
Sam: What is Pike riding on?
Matt: She's on the carpet.
Ashley: I'm on the carpet. I'm okay.
Laura: You should heal yourself!
Ashley: I know.
Marisha: Can I do a Wind Wall to protect us from around us?
Matt: Wind Wall is stationary. It might help with one round of the spray.
Marisha: Are we doing one more round?
Matt: You'll find out. You don't know.
Marisha: If we are, I will prep my Wind Wall spell to encompass us for one more round.
Matt: Okay. As you guys are heading upward, now you're about three-quarters of the way out. The numbers are thinning a little bit. They start spraying once more. You go ahead and create a Wind Wall that you've been preparing. As you watch, these jets of extremely acidic burning liquid shoot toward you, suddenly a column of wind gets conjured upward from the darkness and deflects the spray into a mist that is thrown back against the wall harmlessly. You're almost to the exit, and you see a handful more towards the very top of this cavern. Keyleth, Percy, and Pike. Make a dexterity saving throw, if you can.
Sam: Pikey.
Marisha: I'm good. 21.
Taliesin: I'm going to burn a reroll. It's the end of my resolves!
Ashley: Oh! Natural 20.
Taliesin: Ten.
Matt: Okay, so eight points of acid damage. 16. Keyleth?
Marisha: 21.
Matt: All right. That's eight points of acid damage. You took the--
Ashley: Eight.
Matt: The eight, yeah. As you guys just crest out of the top of the dark column below, you can watch as the creatures are starting to skitter out from the edges, but you are far above and a few of them are spraying, but you're above the range and it's coasting over and disappearing below. You've now emerged into the night sky, the moonlight above you. You're all fairly beaten.
Taliesin: Is there anything we can throw down there to really piss them off?
Sam: I'll drop a bead of Firewall.
Marisha: Yeah, and I can drop a Fireball on there.
Sam: I'm sorry, a Wall of Fire.
Matt: You're going to throw a Wall of Fire on the edge of it?
Sam: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah, and I'll throw a Fireball. Burn the place down. Extermination.
Taliesin: Bug bomb.
Travis: I spit in the hole.
Ashley: I was going to see if I could put a Blade Barrier on top of the hole, so once the fire's in there, they can't get out.
Matt: What's the radius on Blade Barrier?
Ashley: 90 feet.
Matt: Okay, we'll say as you come out the top, you throw down the Blade Barrier-- what's the radius of it, though?
Ashley: I don't think it says.
Matt: I'll pull it up real fast.
Ashley: Oh, it does say.
Laura: 60 feet in diameter. No! You can make a straight wall of 100 feet or 60 feet in diameter.
Ashley: Yeah, ringed wall up to 60 feet.
Matt: Okay, so you can make a wall around the one side of it. Not the whole thing.
Sam: Wall of Fire around the other?
Matt: You don't get to get the whole radius, but between the Wall of Fire and the bladed wall, you blast the opening there. You coast away, watching and hearing as dozens of ankhegs that are climbing up to the top begin to (screeching). Eventually, they all begin to burrow back into the rock and stone and vanish. The ones on the surface begin to burrow below. And a calm stillness comes over the exterior of the mines. As you all coast up, hundreds of feet in the air over the forest, licking your wounds. So you removed the glitter and you removed--
Laura: The little coffin.
Matt: The little stone placard. You had to wedge it out, but you got it up there.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: And that's where we'll call it for the night.
Travis: Nice!
Marisha: That was awesome!
Taliesin: I'm at 57 hit points. Yay.
Travis: Add 100 to that and that's somewhere Grog.
Taliesin: Where were you at? I feared for you, man.
Ashley: 11.
Laura: Oh my god!
Travis: That cherub was a bitch.
Matt: Aw man. That was also created by the chat.
Travis: Was it?!
Laura: The baby was created by the chat?!
Travis: Why you do this to us, chat?
Taliesin: Why you make us kill a baby? That was great.
Laura: That was a really cool villain.
Matt: That was a tiny celestial.
Liam: Like beating up a Kewpie doll.
Matt: Was the prospect of doing something that attacks via the terrain instead of--
Ashley: Was he an evil baby?
Laura: Yeah, was it evil? Or could we have saved it?
Matt: The actual title for it is Symphior the Withered Planetar. It was essentially a celestial seed that was placed to eventually emerge as a guardian in a future time, almost a Ragnarok-type circumstance. But the land around it became corrupted as it gestated or was held in stasis, and then was awoken prematurely. And as such, became this horrible monstrous version of what it was supposed to be. It was neutral, but it was dangerous. It seemed pretty far gone. Thank you guys so much. We'll be back next week with the battle royale. That'll be fun.
Travis: Everybody kill Keyleth.
Laura: Yeah. Go for Keyleth to begin with. Try to kill her.
Marisha: I am going to be looking at all of my spells.
Taliesin: These two have to be the first to go down.
Marisha: What? Why?
Taliesin: Because loot drop.
Travis: Yeah, we've got to get Hunger Games with this shit. Defend the cornucopia of loot!
Marisha: I'm going for the machete!
Sam: But Vex, you're my best friend!
Laura: No, you're my best friend. I won't kill you.
Sam: Okay! Like, within five minutes.
Liam: This one shoved my face into lava at the end of the last battle royale.
Marisha: I love you! (sizzling)
Matt: It was pretty good.
Marisha: Then Pike did it to me immediately the next round. I love you! (sizzling)
Matt: Yeah, it was pretty slick. Exactly.
Marisha: Yes, it was.
Laura: Tight.
Matt: Awesome. Thank you so much for watching. We'll be back next week, Thursday, with our battle royale. Hope you have a wonderful night and weekend. And is it Thursday yet? Good night! [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons. (cheering)
Matt: For our special 100th episode, which is crazy. (cheering)
Matt: So, you may have noticed, we have a new set. Our crew's been kicking ass and working hard to get this done in time for this episode, and we're pretty keen on it. so welcome to the visual upgrade to Critical Role. That includes the glasses, the hats, and the various accoutrements. I should probably put mine up too.
Laura: They'll be here forever.
Matt: Perfect, that's what was missing. Right in my lav. Anyway, welcome. The start of the episode. All day, the energy from the community on the internet has been just overwhelming. The stories, the messages, the art. It's been intense. That's because of you guys, all of you. There are so many people to thank for the fact that we've been doing this as long as we have, and enjoying it as much as we have every step of the way. Thank you to everyone here at Geek & Sundry that brought us in, and had faith in this weird little show. Thank you to my incredible cast that really make the show. I set the table, you all actually make the dinner.
Travis: Eat it.
Matt: You all eat it. Thank you to everyone who's been a part of it. Thank you to Orion Acaba and Tiberius, who started this adventure with us before going off on his own, thank you to all of our amazing guests we've had: Wil Wheaton, Felicia Day, Will Friedle, Mary Elizabeth, Chris Perkins, Patrick Rothfuss, Noelle Stevenson, Jason Charles Miller, Phil Lamarr and Ashly Burch who we had on one of our one-shots, which was fantastic. And tonight, returning to this next chapter of the story, we have Jon Heder.
Laura: Kit Buss!
Matt: And Kit Buss who came in! Our fantastic artist, Kit Buss. We've had a few guests.
Liam: Tom Hanks was great.
Laura: He was wonderful. Renee Zellweger was phenomenal.
Sam: You guys missed the Dalai Lama. (laughter)
Liam: Such a min-maxer though
Matt: Barbarian the whole way, I wouldn't have expected it.
Marisha: And of course, the latest, Jon Heder.
Matt: Jon Heder, who will be here. But thank you, everybody, and more than anyone that I just mentioned, the community. You guys, you guys who have somehow taken our crazy adventure into your hearts and come along and laughed and cried and tensed your butthole at the moments we did.
Travis: Tensed. Your buttholes.
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Never stop.
Matt: Never stop. You guys, it is an honor, it's a privilege, it's overwhelming, it is humbling. It is truly magical, of anything I've experienced outside of this wonderful girl here.
Laura: Who's that?
Sam: I think he was talking to you.
Matt: I was pointing at Taliesin.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: But no, thank you all so very, very much. We're all so happy to have you here. And let's get into our announcements for the evening. (cheering)
Marisha: There's so many.
Matt: First and foremost, our hundredth episode tonight is sponsored by Marvel Puzzle Quest, returning once again. Thank you so much for being our amazing sponsor. Sam? If you want to.
Sam: I'm going to do a super fast throw out-- well, I'm not going to rush them, 'cause they are our sponsor. Marvel Puzzle Quest, everyone, great game. Download Marvel Puzzle Quest, available on the App Store, Google Play, and Steam. New characters are added every two weeks, and you can play as heroes, villangers-- Villangers? Villains, the Avengers, X-Men, Spider-Man, and more. Speaking of the characters, I'm going to do a quick trivia quiz with Taliesin Jaffe here. Master of comic books. I'm going to read a list of characters available on Marvel Puzzle Quest game. Some of them of them are real, some of them are yoga positions. You tell me which is a character and which is a yoga position. Ready?
Taliesin: Yes.
Sam: Spider-Man.
Taliesin: Marvel character.
Sam: Flying-man.
Taliesin: Uh, yoga position.
Sam: Firefly.
Taliesin: Marvel character?
Sam: Yoga position. Devil Dinosaur.
Taliesin: Devil Dinosaur is definitely a Marvel character.
Sam: Invisible Woman.
Taliesin: Marvel character.
Sam: Wild Thing.
Taliesin: Both?
Sam: Yoga pose. Medusa.
Taliesin: Marvel character.
Sam: Bird of Paradise.
Taliesin: Yoga position.
Sam: Yes. Cow Face.
Taliesin: Marvel character?
Sam: Yoga pose! The Hood.
Taliesin: Oh, Marvel character.
Sam: The Warrior.
Taliesin: Yoga position.
Sam: Yes. Ares.
Taliesin: Marvel character.
Sam: Extended puppy.
Taliesin: Later. Yoga position.
Sam: Correct, yay! Marvel Puzzle Quest, everybody. Get it wherever you get your games, today.
Marisha: Watch him on the Wednesday Club. Shameless plug.
Taliesin: There will be another shameless plug later.
Matt: We all laugh now, until the announcement of the Extended Puppy comic series at Comic Con in a few months.
Sam: We're also supposed to give a quick shoutout to Backblaze for sponsoring the first set of episodes of...
Matt: Of, if you want to go ahead and discuss this-- who wants to pick this up? We have--
Sam: Did I skip? Did I skip? It says on my page! I'm sorry!
Marisha: No, it's okay. As a lot of people already probably know, we announced it in our press rollout, but in honor of the hundredth episode, we now have episodes zero-- which is all of our backstories-- through ten in podcast form. Critical Role podcast. And then what's going to start happening is, towards the end of the month, we want to start rolling out one a day, on work days. Five a week. Don't kill us. All right? Every day to catch up, 'til we get back on track.
Travis: (sings) It's the end of the month.
Travis: (sings) Wake up, wake up, wake up, It's the end of the month.
Matt: (sings) Wake up, wake up, wake up, It's the end of the month.
Travis: Bone Thugs? Thank you, Matt.
Marisha: There's a podcast.
Taliesin: You can find it on iTunes, you can find it on Google.
Matt: Google Play Music, or the Geek and Sundry website.
Laura: Yeah, there's definitely-- all the links are on geekandsundry.com.
Marisha: Yes, and Google Play, and yeah. The stuff like that.
Laura: Can we talk-- can we talk about this thing now?
Matt: Yes, we can. So, getting into our merch and part of the celebration of the hundredth episode, Laura. What have you got in store?
Laura: Oh, well, thank you for asking, Matthew. Well, number one, we have our amazing Scanlan concert tees.
Matt: Yes.
Laura: As being worn by the buff and glorious Sam Riegel. Gorgeous. Just gorgeous, with all the tour cities on the back and everything. And then, also, a commemorative item for the hundredth episode. We worked with David Mack-- Who is, like, this amazing artist. He's-- you know him. Tell some of his work, 'cause--
Liam: Oh my gosh, he does covers for everything. Daredevil--
Laura: Jessica Jones, I saw Jessica Jones work. Kabuki. All of it. So he does this amazing watercolor work and he did an amazing art print for us, so--
Liam: Here it is.
Laura: Without further ado. (cheering)
Liam: (sings) Look at this motherfucker.
Sam: The intensity. The glamor.
Liam: The splatter.
Laura: I mean, I'm so excited about this. Number one, just because it looks so freaking amazing. But then, he incorporated all of this amazing stuff like quotes and everything that has to do with the characters, and things that mean so much to us as the characters. And he just worked with us nonstop to try to make the most amazing thing for you guys, and I'm so proud of it and so happy.
Liam: It's farkin' beautiful.
Laura: And we have this amazing gold emblem in the bottom. I don't know if you can tell, but it's like extra shiny and fancy. It's a special Vex. And the paper's really heavy, and so it's super, super special. So--
Ashley: It feels like it was-- like it's a one-of-a-kind watercolor. Like that's what it-- up close, it's crazy.
Laura: It looks like he painted it on the page.
Sam: 400 thread count. (laughter)
Matt: And we're only selling the one.
Laura: Venetian silk.
Liam: Also, like our shirts that you can't tell how soft they are until you're wearing them, like the Joe Mad poster that was so beautiful but until you saw it in person you didn't get it. This thing in person is unbelievable.
Laura: So yeah. This will be available for one month and one month only in the Geek and Sundry store starting today. And then after that, it is gone. And we're doing the same thing that we did last time, which is also offering a limited edition signed version, so if you guys want to check that out, that's only available for three weeks so we can try to get as many signatures before Ashley has to leave.
Ashley: Sorry.
Travis: (sings) Sorry.
Laura: So yeah, three weeks from today you can get the autographed. Starting today, only for three weeks, and then it's gone forever from the store.
Travis: We already got copies, right?
Laura: We already have copies, yeah.
Ashley: I love it so much.
Laura: Thank you David. Thank you for being amazing. We love you.
Travis: Yeah, it's so nice.
Matt: Thank you, David. Really appreciate it, man. Awesome. And what else you guys got?
Marisha: So, The Slayer's Cake-- the members of The Slayer's Cake-- Yes, have a new product they have just released.
Sam: Is it a baked good of some sort?
Marisha: Well...
Laura: We should show them.
Marisha: I think, you know, they worked so hard on making a commercial, so we should let them--
Laura: We should let them talk about it.
Marisha: So here is a commercial from The Slayer's Cake.
Sam: Oh, hello there. I'm Taryon Darrington of The Slayer's Cake. The Slayer's Cake, your pals in a pastry pinch. Go now? Okay. (clears throat) Heading to a fancy banquet and not sure if your hosts are undead? (gasps) Slayer's Cake. Say it's Winter's Crest, and you don't know what to get your secret Sarenrae. Possibly because you've never given a gift before. It could happen. Slayer's Cake! We even have miniature cakes for that special gnome-one in your life.
Laura: Those are cupcakes, Tary!
Sam: Oh, okay, well, I mean, mm! But hey, if I still haven't convinced you, don't take my word for it! Are we still--
Laura: Mm, delicious.
Ashley: Wow, so light, and I would know, I'm a cleric. Er, what?
Sam: So come on down to the Slayer's Cake, located in downtown Whitestone. Look for the big unsanitary bear. You can't miss it! And don't forget, don't step in bear shit!
Marisha: Bumper VO. The Slayer's Cake, open till 6PM, 7 on weekends. Closed Thursdays for adventuring. Slayer's Cake aprons available now. What? We have aprons? Tary, you didn't tell me we have aprons! (cheering)
Laura: Wait, wait, can you see me? There it is! So we had the aprons made, which we're so excited about. I didn't do it, Ben did it, and he's amazing. Ben did this! He made cupcakes with the Slayer's Cake logo for us for the 100th episode. We can eat them! So I'm passing them around.
Ashley: What if we save them forever?
Laura: I'm just so excited about this, you guys! I kind of just wanted to get the apron made so I could personally have it.
Marisha: I know, I know!
Travis: She's not lying. She wanted to have the apron.
Taliesin: Oh! Cupcake down!
Marisha: It's fine, it's fine. Don't worry about it. I'm taking that one.
Laura: I don't know if I want to wear this the whole episode. I might. I'm going to hang out. Oh yeah, save a cupcake for Jon. Wait, Matthew!
Taliesin: Matt, Matt!
Matt: I don't want any of your shit! Don't want it! Brian, eat it. I don't want it. Don't! I have things to do!
Marisha: Give it to Heder, give it to Heder!
Taliesin: Heder's got one.
Matt: All righty, so, thank you very much for those announcements, guys. Other cool things coming up. Our fine friends at Wyrmwood, we have an awesome spot to show during the break today, showing some of their awesome craftsmanship and their partnership, showing off their products as well. There's an amazing giveaway at the mid-break that we'll show you guys when we get there, so stick around for the mid-break when we get to that point to see the process of what they do and how they do it and all the awesome things they produce there. You can find their stuff, by the way, at wyrmwoodgaming.com/criticalrole for free domestic shipping with the promo code-- Liam?
Liam: Yes!
Matt: What's the promo code?
Liam: Oh. Uh, I don't have any of the shit in front of me! Critrole? Is it Critrole now? It's Critrole again? It's back?
Sam: Wyrmwood's has always been Critrole, hasn't it?
Liam: Critrole.
Laura: It's hard to remember because it's been such a long time since you said it.
Liam: No one told me.
Matt: That's okay. Anyway, thank you very much. Looking forward to that at the break. Also, those asking about campaign guide information, for the Tal'dorei campaign guide. All that is up on the Green Ronin website. You can go there, go ahead and find out when it's coming out, how to find it, all that fun stuff, and I hope you like it. Soon, I guess. Also, we have an awesome infographic up on social media and the website, put together from our friends at CritRoleStats, Andrew and all you awesome guys. So they're awesome, go check that out, a lot of fun trivia elements about how long we've been running the show, and apparently how many nonexistent characters live in my brain. We're in the 500s.
Liam: It's just the tip of the iceberg, Matt.
Matt: That has to be certifiable on some level.
Liam: Campaign four, I'm waiting for it.
Matt: Give it time, I'm sure.
Sam: Matt, that soda pop looks like you're drinking it out of a wine glass.
Matt: We are running out of receptacles for soda pop, Sam.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Also, I'm going to be at A-Kon tomorrow. Fly out in the morning to Texas. So, looking forward to seeing you guys in Dallas.
Laura: What were you thinking?
Matt: I agreed to this a long time ago! And it all just coordinated.
Liam: Freakin' Willy Loman, man.
Ashley: Do you at least have a late flight?
Matt: No.
Travis: Does it start with an 'AM'?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Take a break. Run away upstate, for the summertime.
Travis: Take a break! Sing it, Liam.
Liam: Take a break!
Matt: Nonstop.
Sam: Halfway through announcements.
Laura: Our infographic is no longer valid!
Marisha: Completely outdated, immediately.
Matt: That's okay, it was nice while it lasted. So see you guys at A-Kon in Dallas, Texas. Talks Machina, always live, Tuesdays, 7PM Pacific time on Twitch and Alpha. Talk about this crazy episode next week. Hosted by the fantastic Brian Wayne Foster. Thank you for eating my cupcake. Still, surprisingly. All right, Signal Boost, new episode, with?
Marisha: Jeff Lewis. Everyone knows him and loves him from the Guild. Check it out.
Matt: Or as Waluigi in "There Will Be Brawl."
Marisha: Or as Waluigi. He's been so many things. Everyone knows who Jeff Lewis is. Go watch it.
Matt: There you go. And we have some other cool announcements coming up in the coming weeks, so keep an eye out and an ear out for each episode. We'll have a few more fun things that we can announce as the month goes on. So, that, I believe, will bring us to --
Liam: Well, I have a little thing, I just have to share this. Friend of the show, Kiki-- not our Kiki, the other Kiki who's made so many vestiges-- brought me a little something today. (laughing)
Liam: There it is. Got to lose those. Oh yeah.
Laura: No, no, no, maybe Vax needs glasses to see in the dark.
Liam: Maybe he does! Maybe he does. Look at my shoulders! I'm like Travis Willingham! Is this what it feels like, Travis?
Travis: Yeah, I have to put them on under each shirt. It's a real bitch.
Liam: Man, I've been Crossfitting all day! That's like stitching knitwear, right? Crossfitting all day.
Laura: Ah, you're hitting me with your shoulders.
Liam: Cacaw!
Laura: That's amazing.
Liam: Thank you, Kiki. Thank you. Oh my god.
Laura: You're phenomenal!
Liam: This will sit in my office and scare my children. Yeah.
Matt: Appreciate it, Medhiv. All right, guys. We ready? Let's dive in now to tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back, everyone. So. You all right, Jon?
Taliesin: He's jacking in.
Sam: He's jacking in.
Matt: And the lava's connected. Welcome back, Jon! Glad you could join us again. (cheering)
Matt: All righty. So, picking up where we left off last time, Vox Machina had just completed their adventure in the distant countryside of Wildmount, interfacing with the Darrington family and apparently their long-acquired debt with the Myriad, a criminal syndicate on that side of the world. After making a deal that would salvage elements of the Darrington family, you made your way back and encountered a half-orc bardbarian by the way of Lionel, who was there on behest of his boss, Aes Adon, or, as you were immediately referred to as, the Meat Man. Immediately. You were brought to a nearby tavern in Whitestone where the vicinity had been rented out entirely and you met with a large, intimidating-looking gentleman. Scarred, pockmarked, ready to go ahead and wheel and deal some business with you. After some interesting conversation and some sly insights by Vex'ahlia and Keyleth, it was discovered that the Meat Man was indeed your old compatriot Scanlan under an illusion, to attempt to notify you that he'd discovered something quite dangerous on his side of Exandria. You discovered that this fantastic bardbarian Lionel had been working for him under his Meat Man guise in Ank'Harel for the better part of a year, and while set on a mission with a number of other compatriots of his, Lionel had stumbled upon an area called the Smouldercrown, a mountain range not terribly far from Ank'harel, what seemed to be a cavern structure that led to an underground pyramid, similar to the ziggurat that you guys had been keeping an eye on underneath Whitestone, which also contained its own small black spherical orb in which they were feeding magical items towards, it looked like. However, they were discovered in that tunnel and Lionel was the only one to escape with his life. The rest fell behind and were left for dead. Upon notifying Scanlan, or the Meat Man, of this information, he knew it was pertinent to return and get this to you in person. After which, apologies were made; some were accepted, some were not. But it was generally decided by the team that, based on this information, you needed to make your way to Ank'Harel post-haste and discover what exactly resides beneath the mountains of the Smouldercrown. You gathered up the following moment, well rested, all met up at the base of the Sun Tree in the center of the square, and that's where we left off. So, as you've gathered your materials, your weapons, your armor, what you think you may need for this trek, you've all gathered around the base of the Sun Tree. Some shade has been thrown, but you have gathered. So, what do you wish to do?
Sam: We've gone through the Sun Tree or not?
Laura: No, we're right outside the Sun Tree, just before we've left Whitestone.
Taliesin: I just want to make a point that I've alerted everybody in the government-- everybody reasonable-- where we're going, why we're going, and that there should be people watching the Ziggurat underneath Whitestone 24/7 while we're on this mission. Anything happens, be prepared for anything.
Laura: You're so brilliant, darling.
Marisha: I don't understand. There's not a lot of shade. It's noon.
Taliesin: We've been throwing it, it's not here.
Liam: Thrown from a distance.
Laura: I think we should probably head out.
Marisha: Yeah, yeah. Where in Ank'harel?
Laura: Where are we going, Scanlan, again? Shadowy Mountain?
Marisha: Do I know anyplace that's near?
Matt: You've been to Ank'harel, you've been around quite a bit, and you've seen a number of trees. The city itself, within the walls, through magical means or otherwise, there is an interior oasis within the city itself. There is the sand and dust that blows in from the outside desert that surrounds it in Marquet, but there are a number of ponds and rivers and large palm trees and other types of trees that are risen. There are small clusters that form almost minute forests throughout the city, whether they be a park to wander through or a means of harvesting whatever the trees have to offer for the people that live there. But you've seen a number of trees and it's easy enough to make your way there.
Marisha: Okay. I'll do the oasis.
Matt: Okay. As Keyleth reaches out, Lionel, you watch as the small half-elf red-headed girl reaches out and touches the tree, and suddenly the trunk splits open at the base, and you watch as what seems to be a glowing doorway of divine energy appears.
Marisha: Go, go! Six seconds, go! Go, go!
Taliesin: I help shove.
Sam: I should note that Doty is coming with us as well.
Liam: Hey, quickly!
Laura: Sure, I'll note that Trinket is coming as well, even though it's a fucking given.
Liam: I shove my sister through the tree.
Travis: Warming up.
Laura: I mean, just kidding, I love you Tary.
Liam: You're not here, I just shoved you through the tree. I made it up, I created it, right there on the fly.
Travis: We all go through the tree, yeah?
All: Yeah!
Matt: After an incredibly long, well-stretched six seconds, you all eventually make your way through the doorway into the center of Ank'harel. The temperature difference is stark, it's immediate. Whereas you had a gradual transition to Ank'harel last time you were there, going from the Whitestone colder, more damp climate to the immediate dry heat of the central Marquet desert is just immediate, it's uncomfortable-- it may be comfortable for some of you-- and your mouth immediately dries out for a moment, and you have to adjust to the new atmosphere. Looking around you, you've emerged from the outside of one of the central oases, which is kind of near the Lux Run where you originally entered the city. There, you see the streets are bustling and busy. It's starting to get closer to later in the evening now, on this part of Exandria. You can see the sky's starting to get a little darker. There's an element of dusk that will probably be setting in about an hour. But here you are.
Laura: Well, Scanlan?
Jon: Why didn't we do this before? It's so much faster! Why did we take a 500-day journey?
Sam: It was just ten days, first of all.
Jon: Again, I don't get days. Why don't we just make that tree open up?
Sam: I am very powerful, but there's some things that I can't do, all right? Ever since you found out I was short, you're much snappier and snippier with me.
Jon: You're just much smaller, I mean, I didn't realize. Why don't you just go back to looking like Aes?
Sam: Maybe I should.
Travis: Maybe you should.
Sam: Yeah, because I'm known around these parts, so that would probably be better.
Laura: Does Aes wear this stupid headband? Because it's really fucking distracting.
Jon: What headband?
Matt: Perfect.
Sam: I'll put on the hat and become the Meat Man.
Matt: So you step off to the side to a point where you're not being noticed and take on, once again, the illusory facade of the Meat Man. Stepping out into the sunlight once more, you see the imposing figure of the Meat Man now amongst you.
Laura: You're so scary and big. Do you have a place that you always stay?
Sam: I have many places.
Laura: That's what I figured.
Liam: I try sticking my fingers through the fake head a little bit.
Sam: Get off! Get off! Stop it!
Jon: No wonder you said hands off!
Laura: You didn't touch him this entire year?
Jon: He always said hands off. No matter how many times I tried.
Ashley: You never went to brothels or anything like that then, I guess.
Taliesin: Probably not together.
Marisha: Have you been hugged in a year? Has anyone given you a hug? I give him a hug.
Jon: Are you trying to go through me to him?
Marisha: No, I'm just giving you a hug!
Jon: That gives me, like, 50 extra attack points or something, right? I feel like something cool when someone hugs me.
Marisha: Can I use my Inspiring Leader feat?
Matt: If you would like to take a moment to give everyone hugs as part of your Inspiring Leader, sure.
Marisha: You know what, guys?
Sam: Oh, she's speeching.
Marisha: Human contact's important, you know? So come on, come on, let's all group hug! Group hug!
Taliesin: No! No!
Jon: Can I hug everybody else?
Sam: The Meat Man does not hug.
Travis: This is a ten-minute huddle?
Matt: It's a ten-minute, like, hug it out.
Laura: Ten minutes is so awkward!
Matt: I know! And not in Keyleth's bailiwick at all!
Travis: Are we attracting any awkward looks?
Laura: I feel like I would have abstained from the ten-minute group hug.
Taliesin: I would have brought you into it.
Marisha: I keep trying to grab Vex. Come on! Come on, hug it out!
Matt: So, you brought Scanlan and Tary for this.
Sam: Yes.
Matt: Are they both?
Sam: Scanlan stepped out. Tary's in.
Matt: So everyone except for Scanlan gets 17 temporary hit points.
Laura: Thanks, Kiki! No, no, no, Percy brought me in.
Marisha: Brought her out of her comfort bubble.
Matt: As you all slowly begin to realize the slight display you've given in the center of the town, especially those of you in your darker, heavier leathers amongst this very warm, open air.
Laura: Oh, I thought we knew we were going to Ank'harel so we dressed for it. That's what we said the last episode.
Matt: Did you?
Laura: That's what you said, actually. You said "you all showed up dressed for Ank'harel."
Liam: My armor is fire set.
Matt: Okay, I'll trust you on that.
Laura: I feel like you said it?
Matt: You would've, it's fine. But it's less the attire. You're still wearing your armor, I assume.
Laura: Yes, yes, yes.
Matt: So, you're still in heavy leathers.
Liam: Yeah, we're just doing the whole Lawrence of Arabia.
Matt: So you're still a display of people in heavy leather hugging for ten minutes in the middle of this open thoroughfare.
Liam: Yeah, we're still very awkward. At all times.
Matt: So it's not like all of a sudden there's a crowd gathered around you. But occasionally there's a few merchants across the way that are like, "So, anyway, as I was saying..."
Liam: Bidet!
Laura: Be pleased!
Matt: "Be pleased."
Travis: You guys are all saying it wrong. I don't know why. Vax can pick it up, it's not that hard.
Liam: I am very smart.
Laura: Where do we go?
Sam: Come with me.
Matt: You watch as the Meat Man leads you down four or five different streets, dodging through a couple of alleyways and off onto the southern-eastern side of Ank'harel. There is a modest-looking tobacco shop that is in a poorer district, it's a little run-down. Run-down compared to a lot of Ank'harel, which is pretty colorful and very well-kept. So, it's pretty decent, average fare for Emon, considered the poorer side of Ank'harel. But you-- (laughs)
Sam: Was that a fart?
Matt: It's one of the various beasts of burden that you're walking past in the streets of Ank'harel. (fart sound)
Laura: That was awesome.
Matt: To be fair, sometimes the Slayer's Cakes get a little...
Liam: They're rich.
Laura: We're working out the ingredients.
Matt: Adventurers can't get it right all the time. So you come to this modest tobacco shop. As you lead them into the interior, one of your employees, Doran, who is a rather scrawny-looking boy maybe of 22, 23, completely shaved head, tanned skin, a little sallow, but he's sitting there, balancing a long, thin, almost like a railroad-spike-type metal rod. He's just kind of balancing it over the wood, and as soon as the door opens, he fumbles. "Ah. Aes. It is a pleasure to have you back."
Sam: How are things in my absence?
Matt: "They have been well. You've only been gone for a few hours, but they've been uneventful."
Sam: Oh, yes, yes, that's right, yes. Any new reports of the hooded people?
Matt: "None within the town, not since last-- oh, hi, Lionel!"
Jon: Hey, what's up?
Matt: "It's good to see you. Anyway." (laughter)
Jon: You want a hug? It makes you, like, super-strong.
Matt: "Really?"
Jon: Yeah. At least, that's what I--
Sam: No fraternizing.
Matt: "But anyway." And he reaches down and pulls a small wooden lever, and it's like you see he's having to struggle with it. And as he does so, you hear the scraping of wood, and a chain-winch going. You watch as one of the small furrows in the back corner slowly lifts up and reveals a narrow staircase that leads down into a subterranean area.
Liam: This is kind of cool.
Jon: It's really awesome. You guys should-- we should go. This is like our cool hideout.
Marisha: What was the guy's name again?
Matt: Doran.
Marisha: Doran.
Travis: Doran, you known Aes long?
Matt: "For a number of months, yes."
Travis: Yeah. Good guy?
Matt: "We don't converse often, but he pays well, and the work is-- the work is very rewarding."
Travis: Right. Does he have a firm handshake?
Matt: (stammers)
Travis: You should find out. Yeah, no, shake his hand. No, go ahead, right now.
Matt: "I do not presume to want to-- I mean, unless you would want to?"
Sam: No.
Matt: "Okay, yes, I am sorry, I do not mean to--"
Travis: In his custom, 'no' means 'yes, I crave it deeply'.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Taliesin: Your voice got really high during that.
Travis: Oh, shit.
Laura: What'd you roll? What'd you roll?
Travis: 19.
Matt: 19. (laughs) "Uh. I mean, if you--"
Travis: Known him for years. Really.
Sam: I will just walk by him and go down into the hidey-hole.
Matt: Okay. "I think you have some incorrect intel, my friend."
Travis: No, I think you're probably gonna need a new job pretty soon. That was a diss. It's all right. Just look elsewhere. That's all I'm saying.
Matt: He sits back on his stool and takes his little rod and jams it into the wood and huffs as you guys all make your way down there. Which, both Lionel and Grog, you guys have to cannonball up real tight to make it through the corridor. You drag your way through by pulling on the little bits of wood and earth that mark the exterior walls of this descending staircase. The smell is musty. It's not damp, but you can sense that there is a smell of tobacco. You thought, oh, this tobacco shop's a front. As you go down, you see about ten feet down there is a large storage room that contains barrels of dried tobacco of all sorts, and has a very rich, pungent, but also like a nice spice scent to it in places. Spice. Ah! You lead them on down to the far end of the hallway. There is another door that is locked. You pull out a set of keys, unlock it, open it. It leads down another hallway, and then eventually what looks to be some smaller sets of barracks rooms. You see a few doors that are ajar and empty with some beds inside. You lead down another 20 or so feet to another chamber. And as it opens up, inside, you can see there are three tables arranged in a triangular pattern, and at the far end of the table, there is a single-- what looks like a throne-like chair. It's very well-crafted. It's gold-leafed in places, it has intricate scrolling on the sides and where the armrests are, and there you see an individual with a hooded cloak and a deep, bluish-purple color with what looks like a red crimson slash design around the back, a number of jewelry, and they're facing away, speaking towards the chair, for there on the chair sits an identical large, looming human male with long, dark hair and mustache, pockmarked skin, and is mid-conversation.
Laura: You guys really should plan this out better.
Sam: Bit of warning. Don't use her name. All right, so I'll just walk up to them.
Matt: You walk up to the two of them?
Sam: Yeah, sure.
Matt: All right. The cloaked figure is in the middle of conversation, and speaking Marquesian, which you understand, to the effect of, "We've been looking, and apparently all the shipments have been diverted and held off until--" And hears the footsteps and turns over and sees you. "Oh." (confused sounds)
Laura: (clears throat) Twins. Funny.
Liam: What are the odds?
Matt: Deception check.
Laura: Motherfuck. Oh, you know, like 11.
Matt: "I, um." Begins to pull a small blade out to the side. "I am under the impression that perhaps one of you is a doppelganger, and whoever my boss is, would you please raise your hand?"
Sam: I do not raise my hand.
Matt: The other one does. "Aes, what do we do?" And puts the blade forward, and you watch as the other Meat Man on the throne just says, "We do nothing. I know this man, and we will do our business. Tell no one what you saw here, but if two more leave, I have been taken by its will and you'll have to kill us both. I'm just kidding, that's a complete joke. But no, seriously, you really-- go, go." And the--
Jon: Should I go kill him?
Sam: No, no.
Matt: The person with the cloak kind of--
Jon: It's fine, I won't kill you.
Matt: "Thank you. Be pleased." And darts out of the room real fast. The other Meat Man on the throne goes, "Oh, Verath, I'm gonna work real hard to try and convince him other of that."
Sam: Sorry about that.
Matt: (clears throat) "It is all right."
Laura: Good to see you again.
Matt: "Good to see you as well. You all look... spry. You look alive."
Sam: Is anyone in the room, now, Matt, besides--
Matt: Besides you guys? No, it's just you guys and Lionel.
Sam: All right, so. We can drop all of the illusions. They all know what's going on now.
Matt: Looks earnestly at Lionel.
Sam: Even Chod.
Jon: Lionel.
Matt: "Aye, very well." And you watch as the Meat Man on the throne suddenly diminishes into a smaller, gnome figure as well, only female, with short, almost buzzed sides of her dark brunette hair that poofs into a curl there. You can see she's also much tanner than you remember. She is wearing what looks to be a leather tunic that's straining against her rather large muscles for a small gnome, it looks like she's been making sure that nobody messes with her while she's in the city.
Laura: Shit. Is she buff now?
Matt: She's pretty buff.
Laura: Shit.
Marisha: You got a haircut! I love it.
Matt: "You know. The hot weather around here is a bit of a bitch this time of the year, so best to get it taken care of. Anyway. What the fuck are you all doing here?"
Sam: I went to get them to tell them about the thing that we found.
Matt: "Right, okay. Great."
Sam: I was going to escort them there. Do you think you have things handled if we go for a day?
Matt: "Oh, that's fine, I've only been dealing with this for the past two and half weeks without you just fine, no one's noticed, until you came up inside looking the same as me. That's great!"
Sam: Sorry, I didn't know you were throning.
Marisha: 'Throning'.
Travis: Yeah, is that a thing?
Sam: Well, when we're in command, yeah.
Matt: "It's not called throning, don't listen to him."
Laura: How long have you been here?
Matt: "Been here? Ank'harel? I've lost track of time. Better part of maybe eight months, nine months?"
Travis: We've heard you've risen through the ranks. Very successful, you are.
Matt: "Not too bad, if I do say so myself."
Travis: Well done.
Matt: "This one's almost ruined us a few times."
Travis: That's not surprising.
Liam: How are things with the old man?
Matt: "They're fine. Talks about you lot an awful lot."
Liam: Oh, really?
Sam: Not true, not true.
Ashley: Did you have a good year together? Sort of, I guess. That was the last time we saw you. Have things been good?
Matt: She pats the side of her coin purse, which you can see is rather thick and makes a heavy (clinking) of clinking coin. "Not been too bad, if I say so myself. More than I ever made playing violin."
Taliesin: Profit suits you well.
Marisha: I don't know if she was referring to monetary wealth, but sure.
Travis: Well, if you can't have an earnest relationship with someone, at least she's got money.
Taliesin: It's also very hard to put an earnest relationship in a coin purse.
Matt: "Anyway. So. What can I do for you, or have you just come by to say hi?"
Sam: No, I didn't, I came to make sure you were all right, and is everything all right? Have we heard of any other attacks or incidents?
Matt: "None yet, before you came in and rudely interrupted my update from Verath over there, but it seems that there hasn't been any more activity. All the hooded ones we've seen have all absconded over towards the mountain range again."
Taliesin: Hooded ones?
Sam: Yeah, the ones in the mountain, in the cave. What about buyers? Have we had any new interest?
Matt: "No, not too bad. Carthol's been working around the clock. I believe he's working on a new game set. Something ivory and Issylrian in nature. Supposed to go for a pretty penny, if we take it across over up on Wildmount, but it'll take a little longer to make it. You know, one-man job. He's good. He's not that good."
Sam: Just remind him to put some imperfections in it. He always likes to make things too beautiful.
Matt: "I will, I will."
Laura: Why don't you want to sell beautiful things?
Sam: We want to sell real things, not things that look like they're brand-new. If things are really old, they have dents and scuffs on them.
Jon: Wait, so you're lying again.
Matt: "Modifying the presentation."
Jon: I don't know who to trust anymore.
Sam: You should trust me because I pay you.
Matt: "I don't know. Looks like he might be growing up." (laughter)
Jon: I have been eating more.
Matt: "Oh, I can tell that." (laughs) She sets off the throne and comes up and leaps and smacks you on the shoulder. Pretty good hit.
Jon: That's awesome!
Matt: "I know. Anyway."
Sam: All right, so we'll be gone-- we've rested recently, right?
Matt: Yeah, the night before.
Sam: So we'll be going for a while, and just hold down the fort while we're gone. Also, I know it sounds stupid, but can you look into getting a few ducks? Just as pets?
Matt: "Sure."
Sam: Yeah, I know. It's just a thank-you.
Matt: "Ducks."
Sam: Yes.
Jon: They have awesome information.
Matt: "Right, okay. Ducks it is. I'll get right to it. I'll talk to my duck distributor."
Sam: Just ask, just ask us and that would be fine, too.
Jon: Yeah, but ducks will know things that you don't!
Matt: "I'll send some word to the Fowl District of Ank'harel to provide the proper--"
Marisha: There's a fowl district?
Matt: "No, there's not a fowl district! I'm fucking with you."
Sam: You should always assume she's fucking with you. Every time.
Matt: "You traveled with this one long enough. Figure it out."
Liam: Wonder where she gets it from?
Matt: "Don't you say a goddamn thing or I'll cut your tongue out."
Liam: Promises, promises.
Matt: "All right. Go about your business. I've got it here. Don't die. Any of you. Especially you. I've got ducks coming for you, don't know what to do if you don't show up back here to pick 'em up."
Jon: I won't die.
Matt: "Good. Don't."
Sam: If he does, we'll just eat the ducks.
Matt: "I don't care, then. Ducks are pretty tasty."
Jon: They'll tell you where to bury me. (laughter)
Jon: They know all the proper spots.
Sam: Sure. Okay.
Matt: "All right, then, shoo. Night's about to come. You can travel over the cool evening air."
Sam: Do any of you need any supplies or anything before we go? Are we good to travel on foot?
Laura: What kind of potions you got available? Healing potions?
Sam: Healing potions? I can heal with my words. Why would I need healing potions?
Laura: Just in case you run away.
Liam: Is that a no?
Ashley: Just in case you decide to leave again, which is probably highly probable. I don't know. Just in case.
Sam: No, I don't have any of those. But it can be arranged if you are short. I can have my second here look into it for you.
Laura: I have three regular healing potions and that's it.
Taliesin: Cleared out.
Laura: I think we're pretty much out.
Sam: Crutch, will you--
Jon: I have 375 grams.
Sam: That's gold.
Laura: You have 375 grams?
Jon: Gold, I guess.
Laura: Grams of gold?
Jon: They look the same. But I can buy lots of potions with that, right?
Sam: No, you cannot buy any. But the Crutch here will look into it while we're gone. We won't have any until we get back, though.
Travis: He calls you the Crutch?
Matt: "The Crutch is my work name. It's what the Meat Man calls me 'cause of my height."
Laura: Oh. I see.
Taliesin: So it's a name for when he's ribbing you. Ribbing. I'm just so excited by all the puns that are available.
Laura: So no healing, then? Let's just go?
Sam: No, we have to just go.
Matt: "Hold on, hold on." She walks over and starts rummaging through a few small crates that are to the side. She's like, "These haven't been organized properly." Grabs a little crowbar and wedges it in. Pops off the top, starts rummaging through, tossing various things out the side like small metal cups roll across the ground, come to a stop. Pulls out a small, looks like a leather satchel of some kind that's wrapped over the top and the side with twine. Unwraps it. "There's a few something for you." Sets it down. Pulls a necklace off. "You're borrowing this, but you're bringing it back when you're done."
Sam: Of course.
Matt: "All right. Now, which one of you but him wants it?"
Jon: Oh, I do, I do!
Matt: "Okay." Throws it to you.
Jon: It's really cool-looking.
Matt: It's a heavy, somewhat tarnished silver chain that smells of old ale-stained wood.
Jon: Oh, I don't like it, someone else take it.
Laura: No, no, no, I called it.
Liam: Give it to me, give it to me, I called it as well! Dad, make us roll for it.
Jon: Why don't you guys just cut it in half?
Laura: Tickle-tickle-tickle!
Matt: Both of you guys make strength checks.
Laura: But I don't wanna break it! Don't pull so hard that you break it!
Liam: Why would I do that? I have so much finesse. That's cocked. It was cocked, you say cocked eighty thousand times, and now I'm gonna use Luck, because I wanna beat you.
Laura: You motherfuck!
Liam: Oh, it's the same thing! So what is this, strength?
Matt: Strength, add the strength modifier.
Liam: I will.
Laura: Oh, no.
Liam: You go first.
Laura: Nine.
Liam: Oh, she beat me! (laughter)
Matt: You rip the chain from his grip.
Laura: What did I get? What is it?
Matt: "It's an Amulet of the Drunkard."
Laura: What's that mean?
Matt: "You wear that, you drink yourself some fine, fine alcohol, might heal you a bit."
Laura: Do you already wear a necklace? I already wear a necklace, so I probably can't wear it, huh? You can get up. It's okay, you can go. You've got 30 feet!
Sam: Jack off, jack off, jack off!
Matt: The umbilical! There you go.
Marisha: You're good, you're good.
Taliesin: It turns spirits into potions. That's pretty solid.
Travis: Beer, ale, mead, or wine will cause you to regain 2d4 + 2 hit points.
Laura: Oh jeez, that's so cool. Do you already wear a necklace, Grog? Do you have to attune to it?
Matt: It is not attuned. But there is a limit to it, if you read it.
Travis: Yeah, you can only once until the next dawn.
Matt: So once a day, you can just drink a pint of some alcoholic drink, and it'll heal you like a basic healing potion.
Travis: Fucking awesome.
Marisha: Who was out of healing potions?
Taliesin: I'm out.
Laura: I've got three for the party, it's not for me. I have none for myself.
Sam: I know I've been rather quiet this journey, but I could just provide us with a few more, if that would help things--
Travis: Tary, that is very considerate of you, yeah.
Jon: Is this Taryon?
Sam: Yeah, sorry, it's odd for me. I will rip off my last remaining potion patch on the robe, which has four small healing potions.
Matt: There you go, so you have-- and the satchel that you received from the Crutch has three more additional regular healing potions.
Sam: So we have seven regular healing potions.
Laura: Okay, okay, okay. So everybody take one?
Marisha: I have four on me.
Laura: Oh, jeez. Everybody but Keyleth take one?
Marisha: I made a few over the break, if we want them.
Taliesin: Well, as long as I've gone one in there.
Marisha: I'm gonna hand another one to Percy.
Taliesin: I'll take two.
Liam: Hey, T., are you feeling sentimental, being back in Marquet?
Sam: The weather is certainly dry.
Liam: You've come full circle.
Sam: Yes. I certainly have. It's good to be back, but I'm a little nervous. I don't know why, really.
Liam: New setting.
Sam: Yes. New dynamic.
Travis: Your hair's holding up well in the heat, though.
Sam: Only because it's under the Helm. Believe me, it's a nightmare in there if you look underneath.
Ashley: I'm sure you look beautiful.
Liam: Does it retain the shape of the helmet?
Sam: Unfortunately, yes. (laughter)
Laura: I'm just holding this necklace. I have a necklace on, I can't wear it.
Jon: I thought you were giving it to him.
Laura: Can you wear it?
Jon: To Gog over there.
Liam: No, I'm not wearing a necklace.
Laura: Well then, let me give it to you.
Liam: I didn't actually want it. I just wanted to best you.
Laura: Well, now you have it.
Taliesin: You can actually use it, though.
Liam: Can I have the thingie?
Travis: You're not giving it to me?
Laura: I thought you said you already wore a necklace!
Travis: No. No! I mean, I wear, like, ears and fingers and toes around my neck, but you can always accessorize some more, fuck, shit! I'm the only one that walks around with alcohol on me all the time, anyway.
Marisha: So wait, can he combo-use that and be like fine wine and chug it?
Matt: Any relatively alcoholic drink labeled on the thing, he can drink a pint of.
Liam: A pint, though, Grog? A pint? You'd snort that up your left nostril, right?
Travis: Yeah. It's like a little traveler's bottle of soap.
Liam: Yeah, that's like you sneezing into a bottle.
Jon: Do you have an extra necklace that turns chocolate milk into, like, healing?
Matt: "I'll put the word out for you. See what we can find."
Laura: Are we heading out immediately?
Sam: There's nothing to wait for.
Marisha: I actually do have a necklace. I have an old necklace.
Sam: What are we talking about now?
Jon: Everybody went from no potions to, well, I've got this, I've got this.
Laura: I don't know why I asked for potions when we had four fucking potions.
Taliesin: It might be that thing that I got rid of.
Marisha: I had an old card that was the necklace that gave +1 to attack and damage while--
Sam: That's an attunement item. We don't need that shit. Let's go.
Marisha: All right. Sorry your employer overruled me, Kord. Or Card. Or Chode.
Laura: Lionel.
Matt: "All right. Please. Out of my space." And you watch as her form shifts back to that of Aes Adan, the Meat Man.
Travis: That's impressive.
Matt: "Thank you. Treat that well. If you lose it, I'm making you pay for it!"
Travis: Oh, no, it's in good hands.
Matt: "All right, then. Good luck! Don't die."
Laura: The Crutch.
Matt: "I'm the Meat Man now."
Travis: Yeah, she changed back.
Laura: Sorry, I was looking at necklaces.
Sam: All right. On we go.
Travis: Yeah. We head back out the cramped little tunnel.
Matt: All right. Make your way back up through the tobacco shop to the streets of Ank'harel. You are aware that the Smouldercrown mountain range is about 290 miles southeast of Ank'harel across the desert.
Jon: You guys, it's gonna be a really long hike, so let's find another burning tree, or Sun Tree or something that we can just walk into. 'Cause that was way easier than traveling.
Taliesin: Misty Step.
Laura: Not Misty Step. Wind Walk.
Travis: You can do the tree thing too?
Jon: No, I've never seen that. I can show you how to get there, but it seems--
Travis: Have you ever tried?
Jon: Tried through the Sun Tree? What do I do? Do I just--
Laura: You have to ask him.
Jon: I'm good at-- okay.
Liam: Absolute conviction.
Jon: So I go over to the nearest tree.
Matt: Okay. About maybe one block up, there's--
Jon: About one block, guys, come on. Leading the way.
Matt: All right. Solid trunk palm.
Marisha: He likes it when you're super chill and casual with him, so be cool.
Jon: He? So the trees are like dudes?
Laura: All of them?
Marisha: (mouths) Just go with it.
Jon: He likes it when you're what?
Taliesin: Chill and casual.
Jon: Oh. Okay. So I go up to the tree. Do I touch it? You're the tree. Hey, can you open up and take us to Crown-- what was it? Smouldercrown entrance, just 'cause. Wait, it would be way easier to just go straight to the pyramid.
Liam: Yeah, but it's more like a stroking thing. You don't just leave your hand in place.
Jon: Okay, so hey, I'm chill. Can you just take us? Be cool?
Travis: The bark's a little dry. Maybe it needs a little moisture. There you go.
Sam: (screams)
Jon: So yeah, it's cool, we're cool, if you want to take us there. If not, we get it. Is that pretty chill?
Marisha: That's pretty chill, yeah.
Laura: I'm surprised it's not working, honestly. That's the most chill I've ever seen.
Sam: Why am I playing the tree?
Jon: Are you guys--
Marisha: You know that intimate hug we had earlier? Kinda do that.
Jon: Aes? Now I'm talking to Aes.
Sam: Oh, okay. Yes.
Jon: This reminds me of times when I was a kid and kids would-- are they making fun of me?
Sam: They are definitely making fun of you.
Jon: Oh, come on!
Liam: What're you telling him lies for?
Taliesin: We do this to everybody. It's all right.
Jon: You do?
Marisha: It's part of the initiation.
Taliesin: But yes, we are making fun of you.
Jon: Sorry, tree. Wait, are the trees really alive?
Laura: No, they are.
Jon: Okay, sorry, tree. But that was kinda fun, stroking it.
Marisha: The tree appreciates it.
Jon: Anyways, why don't you guys just do the Sun Tree thing?
Sam: We can't really do that. We need to know where the tree is that we're going to be going to.
Liam: There's a lot of tree science involved.
Marisha: If you could maybe potentially help me, Meat Man.
Sam: I haven't been there, have I?
Matt: You haven't been to Smouldercrown, no.
Marisha: Why were you just talking like the Meat Man?
Sam: I have not been to the place we are going. I do not know of any tree.
Matt: Yeah, the only one who's been there is Lionel.
Marisha: You've been there.
Jon: Yeah, I'm the one who saw it and told you guys about it.
Marisha: Were there trees?
Jon: Yeah, there were a couple dead-looking trees, not huge ones. How big do they have to be?
Marisha: They looked dead?
Jon: They looked a little dead-ish.
Marisha: They were dead? Like very dead?
Jon: Do they have to be alive?
Marisha: I think so? Right?
Jon: I really wanted to see that Sun Tree thing.
Travis: We'll use it to go back.
Marisha: Would you prefer to be a cloud?
Jon: I can be a cloud?
Marisha: I could be a cloud, but I'm gonna blow a 7th-level spell for it.
Laura: Wait, but how many people can you do, because we also have Doty.
Marisha: Ten? Let me see.
Liam: Can you turn an automaton, a robit, into cloud? Did we do that already?
Sam: Not too many. We're ten exactly.
Travis: Really?
Laura: Yeah, Trinket's in the necklace.
Travis: Doty, Taryon, Scanlan.
Laura: Oh, shit. Taryon and Scanlan.
Sam: That's ten, isn't it?
Ashley: But that's blowing a 7th-level spell. How long does it take to hike up there?
Sam: 290 miles.
Matt: Wind Walk is a 6th-level spell. Not a 7th.
Marisha: But I've already used my 6th-level spell to Transport Via Plants. That's what I'm saying. So I'm gonna have to use a 7th-level spell to do it.
Matt: This is true.
Travis: It's worth it.
Liam: Does that work on Doty?
Matt: So you'd be able to get all of you.
Taliesin: Would it work on Doty?
Matt: Willing creatures. Technically he's considered a creature for the targeting reason of spells and effects, so yeah.
Liam: Tary.
Marisha: So we can do that, but then we might wanna rest. Or we can do some scouting, take a look. I won't be completely tapped out.
Liam: We can camp it up if we need to.
Taliesin: It'll take more than a day to get there anyway, so this way we'll just save some time and we'll take a day to take a look around.
Laura: Let's go!
Liam: Lionel, this is really awesome. For real, you're going to like this.
Marisha: Ready? Ready? Everybody join hands, join hands, join hands.
Laura: Do we have to join hands for this?
Sam: We don't at all. Not at all.
Jon: Can we still do it?
Marisha: Poof!
Matt: All right, you guys feel a warm, magical effect go through you. As you're concentrating, consider yourself being a cloud, you are the cloud. You open your eyes, Lionel, and you look, and you are a fucking cloud! You're like 20 feet up!
Jon: Oh, check this out! (spits)
Matt: As you do that, you watch as more cloud spit goes (fft) and just more cloud. Your body is moisture. When you try and talk, it just goes (exhale).
Jon: So you can't really talk.
Matt: Can't really talk. You're a cloud. So if you wanted to, you could spend a minute to concentrate and revert back, and you can do that-- you have an eight-hour period where you can just turn back and forth.
Laura: We should probably concentrate for just a minute. I'm gonna turn back, just so I can shout out, we should all follow-- you know how to get there, right, Lionel?
Jon: (wind noises)
Laura: Bob up and down if it's a yes. Okay. We're going to follow you, all right? And when it's ready to land, then just hover down, and we'll all follow your lead.
Jon: (fart sound) (laughter)
Laura: That's totally normal. We all do it. All right.
Matt: All right. So you all go into your mist forms and begin to follow after Lionel's lead. As you guys coast over the upper areas of Ank'harel, it's a beautiful view looking down at this gorgeous city, just this glittering jewel of color and architecture, one of the older cities in Exandria that portions of it seem to have survived elements of the Age of Arcanum and the Calamity, and one of the first societies to spring up thereafter. And it's beautiful to see this history, far longer than that of Tal'Dorei, or at least the human societies of Tal'Dorei, just standing obstinate against the dark oppression of the surrounding desert. You continue to head in that direction, with you leading. Lionel, I need you to roll a survival check.
Laura: Survival check. We might get lost?
Taliesin: Add that to your survival.
Jon: 14.
Matt: 14. All right. So you're traveling at an incredible speed. Like you're used to walking speed, running speed sometimes, maybe horsey speed. This is a very, very fast speed. You're coasting through the air right as the sun begins to set, and the night begins to hit. You keep relatively low to the ground, so you have your Darkvision to see the topography and get an idea of where it's going and the direction. You can look up and see the stars above. You've traveled, and you've been amongst this desert most of your life, so you have a good sense of how to follow that, and because of that, you're able to maintain your directional position towards the Smouldercrown Mountains. You push on. About halfway through the journey, you can see some little flames occasionally in the distance, what looks to be either caravan camps or bandit camps or various nomad circles that are set up for the night where different campfires are placed, whether it's beacons, traps, or just people to stay warm for the evening. You know, best not to stop whenever you see a flame in the middle of the desert. The winds are picking up and getting colder, the stark contrast between the temperature of the day and the night here is immense, and your moisture form takes on the cold fairly quickly, and you feel, even though you're in this form, the chill still captures you a bit as your condensation begins to slightly crystallize in places, but you push on. Roll one more survival check, please.
Laura: Don't get us lost!
Jon: 15.
Matt: 15. And without an issue or any sort of a loss of step or position, eventually you watch as the ominous spire-like jagged dagger-topped Smouldercrown Mountains begin to break the horizon and make their way towards you. You're now, at that speed, it hasn't been that long since you left, maybe a few hours out of Ank'harel. So you're maybe around ten o'clock in the evening or so, 10:30. Going to go ahead and move over here to a non--
Taliesin: I was gonna argue that since he has the Duck Totem, that technically he would have a natural migration sense of what direction he was gonna go.
Matt: That's a good argument to make, but not necessary, but good for holding on to that.
Taliesin: Yeah, just thought I'd put that out there. I feel like his duck sense would be tingling. Always knows where South is.
Matt: Not denying. Recognized, but unnecessary in the moment.
Taliesin: Unnecessary, but worth noting.
Matt: Worth noting, indeed. But yeah. So the spires of the mountain are surprisingly steep. They're steeple-like, almost, in a lot of places. They're all just jutting up like these gargantuan spikes that were pressed out of the earth from some sort of landmass shift or some volcanic activity long, long ago. But you can see the densely packed rock formations, and the mountain cluster is maybe, at most, I'll say three miles, four miles across. It's not a very, very big mountain range. And it's called Smouldercrown because the circular pattern of the oval-like pattern of the mountains that rise up and resembles at a distance like a king's crown in the way that it circles around itself. You recall one of three different entrances, the one that was safest that you guys took when you entered, the central portion of the mountain range from the outside, and you guide the rest of them to the exterior of this space. You can see it's a small valley between two of the exterior mountains that collide together, and there is a valley path, where you see a number of dried trees. Some do appear to be alive, Keyleth, though they're designed to weather extreme droughts. They seem to have some sort of weird fruit that they're bearing, dripping off some of the branches, but the leaves themselves are brown and withered and you haven't quite seen plant la-life-- plant life like this before.
Laura: Plant la-la-la.
Matt: Plant la-va-la-fl.
Marisha: Does it look like it's natural decay?
Matt: If you want to go and approach it and inspect it, you can.
Marisha: How far-- we're still clouds?
Matt: You guys are maybe 100 feet up or so, and you've just now hit the edge of the Smouldercrown mountain range.
Marisha: Starting to go into the entrance.
Matt: Yes. The entrance of the mountains. You haven't found an entrance to the actual mountain rock itself.
Marisha: Are we going to go on foot from here?
Matt: That's up to you guys.
Taliesin: I think we'll get a little closer.
Marisha: I'll wait 'til we get closer. From up here, does the mountain formation look like it's naturally formed, or like some sort of other event? Is it seismically formed?
Matt: Make a nature check.
Marisha: Oh, not good. What's my nature? Okay, 16.
Matt: 16, not bad. They appear to be seismically formed. You can see some of the rocks, the way they rise up in the smaller areas, are at an angle where it's smooth on one side, and you can see the layers beneath where portions of the earth seem to have been jammed, cracked, and pushed upward. But because it's so localized, it isn't like there's tectonic plates shifting or anything, it's not a mass range. Most mountain ranges are long, driven locations that mark where those various boundaries are. This is just a central formation, so you're uncertain as to what the nature of this creation was, but it seems natural.
Laura: I'm picturing beautiful Bob Ross mountains. Just lightly touch.
Marisha: Happy accidents.
Taliesin: Happy little TPK.
Matt: Yeah. Percy, can I have you roll a perception check, please?
Taliesin: Yes. I'm not gonna roll that, 'cause you've been-- I feel like that's yours. It landed on other dice. I'm gonna let it be there, though. Actually, yeah, it's 20.
Matt: Okay. You, Mr. Human, with no actual Darkvision, do not get lost on the path. Taryon, could I have you also roll a perception check?
Sam: 15 plus something. Minus one. 14.
Matt: Okay, so you fall a little behind the group.
Sam: Doty has low-light vision, I think.
Matt: Doty has Darkvision. We'll say that Doty manages to get you caught up a little bit. You fall a bit behind, but you do manage to find the rest of the team. You don't get terribly lost in the middle of the dark, desert sky of these small wisps of cloud with no light other than starlight there to guide your path forward. They begin to just pull ahead and vanish into the horizon. You freak out but Doty eventually finds you as a cloud and you swear you hear the wind go, "Tary." (laughter)
Matt: You continue to push forward, eventually leading into the outside of this entrance of Smouldercrown, where the rest of them have gathered. You guys begin to slowly push into the valley that makes its way towards the center of Smouldercrown, following Lionel's leads. These trees that you notice, Keyleth, they're sporadic in places, and there is scrub brush, sparse, there are areas of the ground where it's dried and cracked. The badlands here, the sands of the deserts, the big storms largely don't make it into the center of the valley because the mountains protect it. While there are elements of it here and there, you can see the topography and the landscape here is very dried, cracked, red earth. Little moisture seems to be contained here. The plant life that exists here is designed to subsist on very, very little water. You eventually come, Lionel, to the area where you believe you found the last entrance. Make an investigation check, if you don't mind.
Jon: 21.
Matt: 21, okay then. You very quickly look around and recall some of the landmarks.
Jon: I'm still in cloud form.
Matt: You're still in cloud form. But you see some of the landmarks that seem to triangulate where you originally found the entrance. However, to truly search in this area, you'd have to get low and probably go to your physical form to seek it out. All right, so. You take a minute to concentrate and you revert back into your half-orc form.
Laura: I go down and do it, too, 'cause he did it.
Matt: Okay. Everyone else joining him?
All: Yes.
Matt: All right, so the rest of the party goes, and they take their physical form. (laughter)
Jon: That was awesome, guys.
Laura: Is this where it is?
Matt: You're able to see in the dark for a decent amount. You walk the perimeter of this space where the first cavern was, and you feel around, and you gather that there was a path here, but it looks like there's been a small cave-in. A lot of the rocks appear like they've been recently fallen in, and there's some sort of a grade to them where you watch loose rocks have recently been tossed around that are of a deeper-set red color and haven't been quite as weathered as the exterior of the mountain appears to be. So apparently the entrance that you originally used either has collapsed on its own, or was intentionally shut.
Jon: I could've sworn it was right here, you guys. I don't know what's with all these rocks.
Laura: It looks like it was caved in, actually.
Liam: This is 100% the spot?
Jon: Pretty sure. I mean, I don't have the best memory or knowledge or brains or really any skills, but I'm pretty sure this was it.
Laura: Don't be so hard on yourself, Lionel.
Marisha: Does it look deliberate, or does it look natural?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Jon: Well, it could be. I have an idea, you guys. Let's ask the ducks!
Laura: Are there ducks here?
Jon: There's no ducks here?
Marisha: Natural 19 from Gil. 22.
Jon: We can see if there are if we Commune With Ducks.
Matt: The cave-in is not natural. The rocks you can see, the portion of the archway where the natural mountain rock becomes the rockslide that seems to have filled the space, there is no damage that seems to be seismic or quaked, and you can see what appear to be some cleft sides at the edge of this entrance where it appears like elements of it were actually hacked or damaged until it eventually fell in.
Laura: Are there any kind of tracks around, or footfalls that look like it was recent?
Matt: Roll a-- for you, it would be a survival check, 'cause you're a tracker.
Laura: And it's a mountain!
Taliesin: I honestly think they might have trapped it.
Laura: I can roll that one again.
Liam: I'll wait until she has looked, and then I'll take a look.
Laura: Yeah, that's way better! 27!
Matt: As you guys are having this moment, and you get low to the ground and begin to read the patterns of the different rocks that have tumbled and left small grooves and a little bit of dust and sand that does reside over this dark, caked dirt and rock, and you do notice a number of footprints. They're scattered a bit, some older, some newer. There's been a lot of foot traffic in and out of this cavern fairly recently, like a week or so ago. And you begin to follow the tracks. Some lead back the path you came, some seem to circle around further into the valley around this mountain.
Laura: I think I've picked something up. Should we follow it now or should we--
Sam: It's dark.
Laura: -- camp out and do it in the morning.
Marisha: Cover for me. I'm gonna drop down and do a Commune With Nature.
Travis: How do we cover you?
Taliesin: She talks to non-ducks.
Marisha: Can Lionel and I commune together and do bonuses? Can I be like, can you call your ducks?
Jon: That's what I was trying to do.
Marisha: All right.
Matt: I'll say, as you begin to cast the spell, you take Lionel's hands and focus, and Lionel, you close your eyes and you imagine before you the most beautiful desert duck that could ever exist. And for a good 45 seconds, 50 seconds, 60 seconds, nothing. And that sadness in your heart sinks a bit, that perhaps Aes, or Scanlan, as these weird people keep calling him, said, there are no ducks here. And you hear, in the darkness, (flapping wings, squawk, impact sound). It runs into the side of the mountain, tumbles down onto the ground. (duck sounds)
Sam: It's a miracle!
Taliesin: It certainly is.
Jon: The duck!
Laura: Wait, you can call them to you?
Jon: I mean, I just, normally that happens.
Laura: That's a power, that's amazing.
Taliesin: Do they obey you, or is it a partnership?
Laura: Could you call multiple to you and they pick you up and fly you through the air?
Jon: You guys are confusing me. Look, I just talk to them.
Marisha: You know, it's okay.
Taliesin: Let's not question this.
Matt: So which of you wants to commune with the duck?
Liam: Let the expert.
Jon: Okay, what do we wanna know?
Marisha: How deep is the cave-in?
Jon: How deep is the cave-in? Okay.
Sam: To the duck?
Taliesin: They knew about the others.
Sam: Sure, sure.
Jon: I ask the duck, how deep is the cave-in?
Matt: Okay, the duck, "20 feet". (laughter)
Travis: That's a chill-as-fuck duck, y'all!
Jon: You couldn't understand that. I was like, you guys, that duck was really chill. (laughter)
Laura: No, I can tell, his body language is super chill for a duck.
Jon: 20 feet. What else do we want? Do we wanna ask if he recognizes who did this?
Marisha: That's a good one, that's a good one, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Jon: Hey, greenie. How-- who did this? What caused the cave-in?
Matt: "People."
Marisha: You know, I have a similar problem when I try to talk to cows. They have face-blindness.
Laura: I'm just gonna stealthily start following the path around.
Matt: Stealth check.
Marisha: Is there another entrance into this cavern?
Jon: That's good, that's good. Should we ask the nearest? Where's the nearest entrance?
Laura: 29.
Jon: Or the safest entrance?
Marisha: Are there other entrances?
Jon: Hey, Greenie, how many other entrances are there to this, about?
Matt: "Two."
Jon: Two. Uh-oh, that was two questions.
Marisha: Is that two including this entrance?
Matt: (flapping wings)
Jon: Wait, wait, wait!
Travis: Duck Hunt! Shoot it! Vex!
Jon: Meant to ask where the entrances are. Sorry, you guys.
Marisha: Well, there is another one. It's good, it's fine, it's good. In fact, I can double down on this. Can I now do my Commune With Nature and see if I can map out this cavern and find the other entrances?
Matt: Okay, so as you've now sat down, and you focus, you can sense the guardian duck that was temporarily summoned is now wandering out to the desert, probably to dehydrate and die horribly when the morning light comes.
Jon: I don't know about this, I don't know about this. Aw, he's going home to his family.
Taliesin: In a way, yes.
Matt: However, you connect and you can feel your spiritual essence connect with the land here. The landscape is something you're not used to. Elements of it remind you of Pyrah, though not as visceral and volcanic, but the general heat and barren aspect of the landscape is familiar in some ways. So as you extend yourself, you can breathe and you can feel the land breathe with you, and as that communion hits, you feel you could ask some questions of the terrain.
Marisha: Where are the other two entrances to this cavern?
Matt: You get, as is the essence of answering these questions, you sense that there is one near the top of the spire and there is one not terribly far from where you are, kind of continuing inward towards the valley. But it doesn't specify directly where, it doesn't put an 'x' on your map for you. You just know that one's towards the top, and one's further around the path you're going.
Marisha: Can I-- hang on-- around the path. Okay. How deep is the Ziggurat from here? Can I sense the other Ziggurat?
Matt: You focus, and you sense that there is almost like a cyst in the ground. You can sense some subterranean cavern. Maybe about 400, 500 feet into the heart of the mountain from where you currently sit. You can sense there this kind of pulsing darkness, almost like a terrible, cancerous heartbeat in the center of this land.
Marisha: Okay. What else? What's the last one? What should I do?
Sam: Are there any people around?
Taliesin: Has anybody been through that upper passageway?
Marisha: Yeah, yeah, yeah, can I sense any other maraudering douchebags?
Matt: Well, you can ask questions about people, powerful celestials, fey, fiends, elementals, or undead, influence from means of other existences.
Marisha: Humanoids? What about humanoids?
Matt: You want to try and sense humanoids? You ask about it. Your attention is shifted back towards that weird cyst-Ziggurat area in the center of the mountain, and the land seems to give you the idea that there are a number of humanoids there right now.
Marisha: Shit. Do they look like cultist-y people?
Matt: You don't have a visual. Your vision isn't brought there, you just kind of sense that they're there. They're inside the mountain.
Marisha: What?
Jon: I could've told you there was people at the pyramid.
Taliesin: Well, last time. Who's here now?
Jon: Well, why would they leave?
Marisha: I don't know. I said there's all these cool cult people. Yeah, they could leave.
Jon: It's good to know that they're still there.
Travis: Were there people inside?
Marisha: A decent amount of people.
Matt: So Vex is gone.
Travis: Where's Vex?
Liam: What did you find out?
Marisha: A lot of people. There's another entrance nearby, I think further down this path. It's close.
Liam: Well, Vex went this way. Is it in that direction?
Marisha: What? What do you mean? She went where?
Matt: You actually didn't see the direction she went.
Liam: Do we see footprints going in a direction, though, you described?
Matt: Nobody else did. Only she was tracking. Literally, you all turn around and Vex is just gone.
Marisha: I think there's also an entrance at the top of this spire, if we want to do a downward approach, but that seems risky.
Matt: You follow the tracks, and about 200 or so feet around the edge, and you have to follow them between a few smaller rocks that are jutting out at the base of the mountain, and the terrain itself rolls a bit, and cracks in places. There are small fissures from recent rains that caused the earth to well up and tear in places, and eventually the tracks curve in towards the mountain and end, and it's just sheer mountain. There's no sign of an entryway visually.
Laura: Can I search for one?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: Do I get advantage because it's a mountain?
Matt: You do, actually, yes. Favored terrain.
Laura: Fucking balls. Perception?
Matt: Investigation.
Laura: No, I want perception.
Matt: You're getting investigation.
Laura: 11.
Matt: 11? You have no idea where the entrance is. The tracks end in this general vicinity, and it's just rock. It doesn't even look like there's handholds.
Laura: Weird. I wonder if it's an illusion. Can I put my hand on the rocks and see if there's an illusion?
Matt: Okay. You put your hands out to feel against the rock, and your hand passes through.
Laura: What-what! I feel like Vex is really good at finding illusions. Oh, shit! Okay, well, can I put the front of my face through the wall and see what I see?
Matt: Sure. You poke into the darkness, and it is pitch-black on the inside. As you poke past the illusion, it's about two inches or so of this rocky, heavy orange-red stone, and as you peer in you can see a cavern about ten feet wide or so and about 12 to ten feet tall. Natural along the walls, you can see the ground itself is smoothed over, and it's straight. It's a straight tunnel. It's not a rocky natural formation, it's like it was pushed and carved into the rock, like something heavy or something very focused drove through. You glance over to the side, and you catch what appears to be a face in the wall, about that big around. It's featureless, you just see two eye sockets, a mouth, and a nose. You see a flash of green light. I need you to make a constitution saving throw.
Laura: Well, it's too late. Constitution saving throw?
Travis: Can we also say that we put our earrings back in the next day?
Matt: I assumed you did.
Travis: Because we're professionals.
Laura: That was almost so good, but then it wasn't. Ten.
Matt: Ten. No, that does not succeed.
Travis: Curious little cat.
Laura: I'm a rogue now, you guys!
Taliesin: Had to poke it.
Matt: You take 61 points of necrotic damage. As a familiar sting, as the green light flash turns into a piercing beam of life-draining energy, one that once almost brought you to the edge of death before, and as it hits you, you feel your breath and life essence sucked out of your nose and mouth and ears like a giant vacuum is pulling the essence out of your body. The veins bulge, you can't breathe, and you pull yourself back out of the illusory wall, and have to gasp for a moment. You guys hear the gasping as you begin to approach that side, and you find your sister there grabbing herself.
Laura: (coughing) Jenga. Not full Jenga.
Ashley: What happened, what happened, what happened?
Laura: Don't go through the wall. Can I heal, Pike?
Ashley: Yes, yes.
Laura: There's a thing in there. There's a face, and it sucks your life out. I found a door, though, guys!
Jon: Where's the door?
Laura: Don't. I'm not even going to tell you where the door is. I'm not going to tell him where the door is.
Travis: We don't see a door.
Jon: I don't see a door.
Laura: Nobody touch the rocks!
Liam: But there's a bad door somewhere around here?
Laura: There's a bad door. Just listen for a moment. Bad door. Right in front of me: fake, bad door. If you go through it, there is a very bad face that sucks your life out.
Liam: A bad face.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: There's a door you cannot see, and a bad face sucks your life away.
Laura: Yeah. I'm going to take my Oracle Arrow and crouch down.
Sam: Wait, wait, wait, before you do that, are you sure that's--
Liam: Yeah, slow down, you're doing all the shit.
Sam: You're going to just shoot something in there? What if they see it fly in?
Laura: That's why I was going to crouch down and shoot the arrow super low to the ground.
Liam: What if they still see the arrow fly in?
Laura: Well, when I peeked my head in, before I got my life sucked out, I didn't see anything in front of me. Did I?
Liam: I'm going to assume that before we heard her gasping, Keyleth was filling us in.
Marisha: You know, I think it's right around that direction. Follow the gasping. It feels like it's really close to the gasping.
Liam: I'm going to go check out the top. (mist sound)
Laura: Give me shit, and then take off on your own.
Liam: Well, I'm not going to stick my face in something.
Matt: All right. So you fly up. (flapping wings) 60 feet a round. It'll take you a good five minutes or so to make your way towards the top end of the spire. As you're going, make an investigation check.
Liam: Can I stealth as cloud?
Matt: Oh, you're going cloud! Sorry, I thought you were doing your wings. As a cloud, you get there really fast. So as you make it up there, you cannot-- I will say, for the purposes of this...
Liam: I'm wind. I'm not going high, I'm going through the treetops.
Matt: Yeah, so make a stealth check.
Liam: All right, I will. That is very good. That is a 35.
Matt: 35, okay. As far as you understand, no one seems to see you. Make an investigation check as you make your way up the mountainside to check for any sort of entrances.
Laura: You should mark off one of your Lucks because you already used it for the day.
Liam: I did, it's on the plastic.
Sam: Keep him honest.
Liam: Oh man. I love you so wholeheartedly, and on a regular basis you kick me in the goolies. I don't understand it.
Sam: Good old four-Luck O'Brien.
Liam: Seven Luck. It's not per game, it's per day, so if we go to bed, it resets. Fart knockers. I'm doing investigation? That's 18.
Matt: 18. You glide around there for a good ten, 15 minutes or so, scouring the edge. All you know is it's near the top, and you see no sign of an entrance.
Liam: Okay. So it's not a volcanic hole or anything, there's just a secret entrance.
Matt: No. She told you there was supposedly an entrance, but you see nothing. Sheer rock. There are a couple of indents that could be cave entrances, but when you get close you see it's just a small alcove that ends.
Laura: Maybe you should try sticking your face against some of the sheer rock face.
Liam: I return to my loving sister, kind and good. I land, and say, I saw another face, but I didn't stick my face in it, because that would be stupid.
Marisha: I wonder if there's another face behind the cave-in.
Laura: You know what, I should probably find out! And I shoot the Oracle Arrow.
Matt: Okay. You shoot the Oracle Arrow and--
Marisha: Wait, into the cave-in, or the illusory wall?
Matt: How far do you fire it? Is it full strength, is it a lob?
Laura: No, I don't want to go crazy far. I want to get in, a little bit further to see if I can find any more traps, and see how that face works.
Travis: What percentage of your strength do you shoot it at? 70? 50? 25?
Laura: 65 percent of my strength is used.
Matt: Okay. (whoosh) As you release it, it's still a good distance. It (whoosh) continues through. As you go past the face, the one that shot the green light, you can see the front of it is darkened now, from where before it was untouched. It cruises past. You see the formations. It looks like there's some cool designs here and there. The arrow eventually comes to rest. You don't see anything of interest as you pass by that quickly. You do see a very, very faint glow down the hall. You can see the glimmer of light, and as you watch, it's shifting ever so slightly, flickering like firelight.
Laura: I think there's a fire further in.
Travis: Was the face there?
Laura: The face is in there.
Travis: Was it doing the life-sucking thing?
Laura: Not to my arrow. But it was there on the wall.
Travis: I'll go in.
Laura: No, no, no, Grog, don't!
Ashley: She got hurt!
Travis: Yeah, but I'm stacked for days.
Laura: We should dispel it or something.
Jon: I got your back, Grog.
Taliesin: We've got another entrance.
Marisha: I can Dispel Magic still.
Laura: Yeah, see if you can dispel the magic!
Taliesin: Let's see if there's a second entrance.
Marisha: Well, there is a second entrance. One is up top.
Taliesin: Well, they're going to think we're coming in through here, because they know about this entrance. Maybe they don't know about the other one, so we could maybe be super tricky and take an entrance they don't know about at all.
Marisha: I can clear out the cave-in. I imagine if someone is trying to cause an intentional cave-in, they're anticipating no one going through that cave-in, and we can start there.
Jon: I at least know my way in, if we cleared that.
Taliesin: If I were expecting people, I'd expect them through the entrance I take or the cave-in, not a third entrance I don't know about, though. Assuming they don't know about it.
Marisha: But they do know about the up. He said there was a face.
Jon: No, he's talking about the third entrance, that's lower.
Taliesin: Higher.
Jon: No, I thought that was the higher one.
Marisha: Hang on, hang on. There are three entrances: the cave-in, the one where Vex just got exploded, and one through the top of the spire.
Liam: Which I could not find.
Taliesin: Should we take a group look for the top of the spire?
Marisha: If we go through the cave-in entrance, I can clear it out. I will clear one of my last high-level spells, but Lionel knows his way through that way.
Laura: Yeah, but we shouldn't go in the night. We need to rest.
Marisha: But I can clear it tonight.
Taliesin: We could just make a tiny hole in the cave-in and become smoke and go inside. Is that not possible? He asked.
Matt: That may be quite possible, actually.
Taliesin: So that they wouldn't even know that we had cleared it. It would just be relatively untouched.
Marisha: Can we camp out inside?
Matt: It's a gaseous form, so yeah.
Laura: We would have to camp inside the cave-in.
Taliesin: It's either that or camp right in front of the front door after just triggering a spell.
Laura: Oh, Scanlan! We've been so long without you, I forgot we had it!
Marisha: Oh my god, we have the mansion!
Liam: I mean, only if you want to. I remember that being a sore spot.
Sam: I don't even know if you guys want me to come in with you. I've taken you this far. But if you need me in there, I'll come.
Ashley: No, you'll be coming.
Sam: All right. Let's make a hole and go in, and then we can camp the night inside.
Jon: I think some of my dead comrades we could use as pillows. They're probably still in there.
Taliesin: That may not be necessary.
Ashley: Body pillow.
Taliesin: I'm so proud of you! That was amazing!
Matt: So what's the plan, guys?
Laura: We're going to go back to the cave-in. Oh, wait, wait, wait! I did have a question. I feel like it might be smart to get my arrow out of there, in case anybody comes out and sees an arrow.
Ashley: That's a good idea.
Laura: But I don't know how to do that. Is there an Unseen Servant or something?
Jon: I'll run in real fast and get it.
Sam: No, do not do that. I, Scanlan Shorthalt, can go get it, if you'd like.
Laura: No, Scanlan, that's not what I meant.
Sam: I can go get it if you'd like.
Laura: No, I don't want you to go in! It fucking sucks your life out!
Sam: It's easy. I'll be there and back in two seconds.
Jon: But there's a face-sucking thing.
Laura: Do I know how many feet in it went?
Matt: You're not entirely certain. I'd say a couple hundred, maybe. 150.
Travis: You did 65 percent of your...
Sam: You're an expert marksman, you know. Within 100 feet? Yeah, how about this? Why don't you shoot an arrow right now, outside the cave, same strength, and see how far it goes?
Laura: You got it.
Matt: Okay. So what's the range on your bow?
Laura: Oh, that's a good question. Fenthras, exalted.
Matt: It's a longbow. It's just a general longbow's range. Do you have that written down?
Laura: What? Like 120 feet? Is it that, or is it more?
Matt: 150 is your first increment, and then 600 is your second increment.
Taliesin: 65 is like 400 feet.
Matt: Approximately, yeah.
Taliesin: Or the closest wall. Did it hit a wall?
Matt: It did not hit a wall.
Taliesin: 400 feet.
Laura: That's really far. No, but how would you do it? How would you do it?
Sam: I have ways.
Liam: Could you see through the mouth of this face that you saw, when you were in there?
Laura: I saw eyes.
Matt: There was no eyes. There was empty sockets, a mouth, and a nose, and then suddenly the sockets began to glow green for a second, and then the hit.
Laura: The sockets glowed green and then I got hit.
Liam: So you couldn't see through the mouth, it was just a dark maw.
Laura: Right. But the eyes glowed.
Ashley: You're just going to go in there, Scanlan?
Sam: You want to come?
Ashley: How are you going to do this?
Sam: The way I always go. Dimension Door.
Laura: What if it can reach you that far in?
Sam: It can't.
Ashley: How do you know?
Sam: I assume.
Ashley: Well, I'm not going with you!
Sam: Great.
Liam: I'll go with you.
Sam: You can't.
Laura: You're too big.
Sam: I'll just go. Dimension Door 400 feet straight in.
Ashley: Wait, I'll go with him. I'm going to go with you. I'm keeping my eye on him.
Matt: All right. (poof) You guys appear inside the cavern. Darkness. You can see the firelight ahead, the flicker at the end of the tunnel, and you can see the tunnel, the straight portion of it, maybe 100 feet forward, begins to shift and bend a little bit. It starts to turn into more of a natural cavern as it goes. Whatever drove its way in here has merged with a natural path on the inside of the mountain, possibly even merged with the cave-in path. You look on the ground, and both of you guys make investigation checks, if you don't mind.
Ashley: Investigation, did you say?
Sam: 30.
Ashley: I'm sure he found something. 11.
Matt: In the time it takes you to go, "Okay, we're looking..." He's like, "Found it!" You find the arrow. A little dust drifts off of it, and as you're walking you can see that there's a softness to the ground here. You get the sense that the formation, whatever rock was pushed through here, was... There's no pile of rock outside, there's no symbol of the earth that was carved out of this tunnel, recently it seems, placed anywhere. There's just an absence of rock, and there's a heavy layer of dust on the ground.
Laura: Do either of you have Dust of Tracelessness?
Ashley: No. Well.
Sam: Go back?
Ashley: Yeah. Let's go back.
Sam: Will you hold my hand?
Ashley: No. No, don't push your luck.
Matt: (poof) You guys bamf back out of the outside. You watch as Scanlan and Pike reemerge from the outside, Scanlan holding your arrow triumphant.
Laura: Oh, it's dusty. Was it dusty in there?
Sam: It was very dusty in there.
Liam: Any footprints?
Ashley: None that we could see.
Sam: Soft un-tread earth.
Liam: Weird.
Laura: Thank you.
Marisha: Oh, no.
Liam: What is it, Kiki?
Marisha: Maybe this is the unused entrance. Maybe the cave-in is the more recent.
Laura: No, I see tracks coming in and out of this place. I know there's people that use this.
Matt: Yeah, fairly recent tracks.
Liam: But you saw no footprints inside?
Ashley: Did you, Scanlan? You should've seen something. Did you look?
Sam: No, I forgot. I was looking for the arrow. That was our mission.
Ashley: Well, I was just making sure you weren't going to run away, so I was preoccupied.
Jon: So you guys both accomplished your missions! Awesome!
Laura: Maybe we should go back into the other side, then. Unless somebody can just fucking dispel that face, and then we can just go in this way.
Marisha: I could attempt it. I have Dispel Magic with me right now.
Travis: Do it!
Marisha: All right. I'll do it.
Liam: Is the plan to camp out tonight? In the mansion, by a fire, whichever?
Laura: In the mansion.
Taliesin: I'm going to point out, I've already been looking for a way into the cave-in while you've all been being ridiculous.
Laura: You've already gone back?
Taliesin: The minute he suggested that he get it, I didn't want to be a part of that, so I just immediately went in to start testing to see if there was ways we could just meld through the cave-in, or if we actually had to make a hole.
Matt: So you're inspecting?
Taliesin: I misty-ed out of that the minute that he started working on it.
Matt: So you're over, currently looking for a way through?
Taliesin: Seeing if I can find ways through.
Matt: You manage to squeeze through a few crevices between the stones and rock, but it's pretty densely packed. You get maybe five feet in before you can't really find a way to get your whole mist form through.
Taliesin: I'm going to start, back to normal, at the very top of the pile, looking to see if I can start scraping through using my sword to make a crevice.
Matt: Okay, so you're working on that. What are you guys doing?
Sam: Are we trying to dispel the magic or are we going in the other way? Maybe we should just make a decision.
Marisha: I'm trying to dispel the magic.
Matt: Okay. So you walk up to the illusory wall.
Marisha: I'm having Vex be like, tell me where it is. Can I prepare it so as soon as I poke my head in, I can be like (dink)!
Matt: Okay. You poke your head in, and as soon as you glance off to the side, you can see the stone face in the wall.
Marisha: (poof)
Matt: Cast Dispel Magic... Doesn't seem to have an effect.
Marisha: Bail. Bail! Bail! Out!
Laura: Did it hit you that fast? It didn't hit you?
Matt: There was no attack from the face, either.
Taliesin: I get the distinct impression, perhaps, that you used it up, and probably alerted them that somebody was at that entrance.
Laura: Let's maybe move away from the entrance.
Marisha: Can I peek my head back in and do a...
Matt: You glance in. No trigger, nothing. The face seems inert.
Laura: I peek my head in. Does the flickering light in the distance seem brighter?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: It's too many choices. Too many dice. Fucking shit, motherfuck! Wait, wait, it's a mountain.
Matt: It is a mountain. You get to have an advantage. That's what rangers do, man!
Liam: Was the light seen by the arrow?
Matt: The light was seen by the arrow.
Liam: So you're looking at the face.
Laura: No, I'm looking in the fucking tunnel.
Matt: The face is on the side of it. It's beyond.
Liam: Oh, it keeps going?
Matt: Yeah. So depending on how high her perception is, she may, now that she sees the flicker at the end, she may be able to see something. So how high did you roll?
Laura: 31.
Matt: That would be high enough to just barely focus your half-elven eyes and glance down. You get to see the very faint bead of light at the very tip, and it doesn't seem to change over the next 30 seconds, next minute, next two minutes while you focus intently. You don't see any shift or change.
Ashley: Should we just go in?
Laura: We could.
Jon: So you think the face is recharging?
Laura: I think I might have used up its only charge, potentially. Or it's recharging.
Jon: It's like a booby trap, used once.
Liam: I will take a look at it, and look at the area and see if there's anything left to it or other traps further down.
Matt: Okay. Make an investigation check.
Sam: Well, if he's going in, Taryon will go in and Identify the thing.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make an arcana check.
Liam: 19.
Matt: 19, okay. You glance by, you check it. As you both are looking at it, both Taryon and Vax approach the face, and the carving is rudimentary. It looks more like it was prepared as the basis of-- what did you roll?
Sam: 17, but I've got Identify.
Matt: Yeah. There's no magical essence to it any longer, but your arcana check shows that you can see that there are certain small carvings in it that look to be some sort of sigil or glyph that is designed to hold a spell until triggered, and then it's released. Actually, Pike, you've used this once before. It's an actual Glyph of Warding spell that is utilized to hold a spell in and release it upon some sort of a trigger.
Sam: So it's one-time use, so we're good to go in this way if we'd like.
Laura: Does the Glyph of Warding alert you once it's gone off?
Ashley: I don't think so.
Matt: You don't recall. You didn't know your glyph went off until you found the destroyed body of the prisoner that you had released in Westruun long ago.
Laura: Oh, right. The guy that was stealing all that gold.
Ashley: And then I think we also put one on the top of the loot for the dragon?
Matt: That's the one that got him. He tried to get some money on the way out, and you found his body blown up and dragged about 20 feet off before he expired.
Ashley: Yeah, I don't think it alerts anybody.
Laura: Okay, good. Then we are probably safe going in. I'm going to cast Pass Without a Trace on us. I'm going to see how many people I can cast it on. Every creature I choose within 30 feet of me! So, sweet, it's everybody.
Matt: Yep. All right. You notice, Lionel, as you guys step in, even in your Darkvision-- which, by the way, for your two human companions, it is complete darkness. You had a little bit of starlight, and your eyes had adjusted to it where you could see the edges and rims of different shapes within the mountain range, but once you step past the illusory barrier into the interior of the cavern, it is just darkness.
Laura: Is Percy back yet?
Taliesin: Yes, I just got back.
Laura: Percy, hold on to my waist, dear.
Sam: Should we use our flashlights or no?
Taliesin: No, I don't think so.
Liam: I'm going to stay 30 feet in front of the group and continue to check for traps.
Matt: All right, so everyone roll stealth.
Laura: And add ten to it because of Pass Without a Trace.
Sam: Doty's going to click his boots of whatever. His boots of elven...
Matt: That give him the bonus on stealth checks?
Sam: Yeah, elvenkind.
Travis: 26.
Ashley: 30! That's never going to happen again.
Matt: Vex?
Laura: 25.
Liam: 37.
Matt: Pike is more stealthy than Vex right now!
Laura: It's because Percy's holding on to my waist.
Matt: I understand. Keyleth?
Marisha: 26.
Taliesin: 21.
Jon: 28.
Sam: Scanlan got 29, Taryon got 25, and Doty got a two, but with his boots-- what do his boots do? Shit!
Matt: The boots give him advantage on stealth checks. He gets to roll again.
Sam: Okay. 17! Plus ten, yeah.
Matt: There you go. So you guys silently make your way in. I would like a marching order on this, because it is about ten feet wide, this tunnel, and you guys can only go in there two at a time, shoulder-to-shoulder.
Taliesin: Who's got the best night vision?
Laura: Actually, Doty has the best night vision. He's got complete Darkvision? Oh, we all have Darkvision.
Matt: Okay, so Vax and Pike in the front.
Liam: Check for traps, check for traps, check for traps.
Laura: We didn't take a nap.
Sam: Do you want to stop and camp?
Laura: Maybe in a little bit.
Taliesin: I'm all right with the notion of getting a little deeper in.
Matt: All right, so. Pike and Vax at the front. All right. Who's after them?
Laura: Me and Percy.
Ashley: I tug on Vax's shirt just to let him know I'm there.
Sam: I feel like good old Chod should be near the tip of the spear since he knows the inside of this place a bit.
Laura: That's true. What did he roll for stealth?
Matt: He rolled a 28 I think.
Jon: Have I been in this area?
Matt: You have not been in this specific tunnel. You haven't seen anything that looks familiar. The path you went before was a natural cavern. This one is pushed straight through.
Jon: Yeah. But I can see how, I'm the only one who's been in this mountain, so there's maybe a little trust. I got this! I haven't been here, but I got it!
Matt: All right, so do you push your way towards the front?
Jon: Sure.
Matt: All right. So, Pike and Vax, as you guys are moving forward, your bardbarian friend pushes aside and muscles up to become the point at the tip of the sphere.
Jon: I crop-dust all of you as I go in front of you.
Matt: After that, after Percy and Vex?
Marisha: I'll go.
Matt: All right. Keyleth, and we still have Taryon, Scanlan...
Sam: Taryon next, with Doty with him.
Matt: Taryon with Doty behind. Doty is going to be two people in the cavern. So who's behind Doty?
Travis: Me.
Matt: All right, Grog. And...
Sam: Scanlan will be in the rear.
Matt: All right, so Scanlan is alongside Grog. I imagine you have Trinket in your necklace?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: All right. So at the very end, Grog, you're walking, and Scanlan's there at your side, and Doty walking in front of you, lumbering, surprisingly quiet. And you get the sense the reason you're so stealthy in here is because as you step, it's soft. It's like stepping on a bunch of very, very fine powder. (heavy footsteps) It helps cushion your footfalls.
Marisha: Like snow? Or ash?
Matt: Like ash, almost. Like a very, very fine dust.
Marisha: Can I dip down and grab a bit of it and do a nature check on it? Is it ash?
Matt: Sure, make a nature check.
Laura: It's cocaine!
Matt: First she eats the soul, then she just does a line in the middle of the tunnel. Keyleth's gone off the end, it's really bad.
Marisha: 15.
Matt: 15's not too bad. You taste it, and you smell it. It's not ash. It's very, very, very fine powder. It has an earthy rock taste to it.
Liam: And are there any tracks or footprints ahead of Pike and I?
Matt: Make a survival check.
Liam: Survival. Ooh, that's good. 19.
Matt: 19. You do see some tracks stepping up and down, yes.
Liam: Both ways?
Matt: Both ways.
Liam: Shite.
Matt: All right. So pushing forward, another 30 or 40 feet, roll another investigation check.
Liam: Not perception?
Matt: Not for checking for traps, man, it's investigation. Always been.
Liam: 21.
Matt: 21, okay.
Sam: Fine, if Matt wants to change the rules 100 games in, I guess so.
Matt: All right, so you continue moving forward. You do not see any traps, anything that catches your attention.
Marisha: Can I just do a little, I'm going to scoop up a little bit and say, Percy, can I get a little bit of water added onto this? Can I do another nature check on what this is?
Travis: You are fucking fascinated with the god damn ash.
Matt: I'm not going to tell you to make another nature check. You can't keep making rolls until you get a better one. It turns into an immediate mud. It's a very, very fine silt, almost.
Taliesin: What color is the rock?
Matt: The powder, you mean?
Taliesin: I can't see anything, can I? Never mind.
Matt: You can see nothing. In fact, when you say, "Percy, get some water on this," you're like, "What? I don't-- where?" You have to guide his hand.
Liam: And is it dead silent in here?
Matt: It's dead quiet from where you currently are. You can make a perception check to listen in to see if you hear anything ahead.
Liam: 24.
Matt: 24. You listen carefully and you hear faint sounds of footsteps and scraping stone. In one little, sounds like a (whistle), like a brief sucking sound, and that's it.
Liam: Over the earring, not alone. Not alone. Something up ahead. I don't think we're camping.
Laura: If we camp, then they won't find us. They can't see the door.
Liam: What do y'all want to do?
Travis: You're on point. Keep going.
Ashley: I say we keep going. If it's an emergency, we can all jump into the mansion, maybe.
Taliesin: I'll activate my boots.
Ashley: Is everybody okay to keep going?
Matt: Okay. You continue another 40, 50 feet down the path. Make another investigation check.
Liam: Natural 20.
Matt: You go a little further ahead and you come upon what appears to be two more of those faces, that are facing the inside of the wall maybe 30 feet ahead. And you stop. You can see they're both facing outward, towards the center of the hallway.
Liam: Kiki, a couple more faces. Can you shimmy your way up here, please?
Marisha: I get down on my hands and elbows.
Laura: Percy, spread your legs! I let her crawl through us.
Liam: Left hand green!
Marisha: Where are they?
Liam: Right over there, right up ahead, 30 feet. Both sides.
Matt: He points it out to you, and you can just barely see the smooth walls, the almost oval, circular passageway, you can see the slight lift of the side rock where the faces form a very faint profile.
Marisha: I scootch a few more inches and use my last two 3rd-level spells.
Matt: Okay. Roll a d20. Add your wisdom modifier, please.
Marisha: Just my straight modifier?
Matt: Yep.
Marisha: Don't fuck me Gil! Okay, that's good, that's good. 19 on the first one.
Matt: Okay, roll again on the second one.
Marisha: 18 on the second one.
Matt: Okay. As you take a moment (whoosh), the first one releases, and you watch as the face suddenly begins to glow with this dull, grayish, black crackling energy, and then (poof). The energy seems to vanish and disperse, with the one on the left. You turn and release Dispel Magic on the one on the right, and you watch as the same effect happens. (poof) Disperses as well.
Marisha: Okay, we're good!
Laura: (sings) You're the best around! Okay, keep going forward.
Liam: Grab her shoulder, move slowly past, pull Pickle along, and continue to carefully search.
Matt: Okay. As you approach and step toward the space right between where the two faces are, you make one footfall between the two of them, and nothing happens. You successfully dispelled the effect.
Ashley: You sneaky.
Matt: Wanted to fuck with you. You continue pushing forward for another 50 or so feet. You're starting to get fairly close at this point to where the arrow may have dropped.
Laura: Oh, shit, you were right by fucking other faces when you popped in before!
Matt: You moved just a little bit beyond them. Make another investigation check. You're not there yet, but you're getting closer.
Liam: 18.
Matt: 18, okay. You don't seem to notice any strange or different elements of the topography that worry you. You push on for another 40, 50 feet or so, and you're just now on the cusp of where the arrow dropped. Make another investigation check.
Laura: Roll super good.
Liam: That's at least an 18. Oh, it's better than 18. It is 26.
Matt: Okay. You don't notice any traps or any issues in the vicinity. You do see the footprints of Pike and Scanlan where they first arrived earlier before, venturing into this cavern, and pushing forward about 20 or so feet, the smooth cavern begins to turn into more of a natural, almost a volcanic tube-type physicality to it, and you can see to the left, another tunnel merges with it. You begin to recognize this. It looks like this carved tunnel is now dovetailing into the path that you guys found your way in, the one that was collapsed on the exit. Now the path that you know and the path you're traversing have finally merged into one singular path.
Jon: I know this place, you guys! Let's go down the left one.
Laura: Shh!
Taliesin: Left?
Jon: Yeah. There's one that's-- we can either go straight, or there's one at the...
Matt: The one that's on the left will lead you back to the entrance where you first came in, but it was collapsed, the one that you knew. If you keep going straight, it'll lead you towards the light and where you saw these people last time you were here.
Jon: If we go left, it's going to take us back the other way, so that's safe, but we could keep going straight where the light is.
Liam: We're here for your friends, right?
Jon: Yeah, they might still be alive. And I call out, hello?
Matt: Okay. It echoes. "Hello?" Everyone make a perception check.
Sam: Right now I'm looking at the back of Grog's ass. But I got a 19.
Marisha: Natural 19.
Travis: 10.
Ashley: 22.
Laura: 22.
Jon: 21.
Taliesin: 13.
Matt: 19, you got, right?
Marisha: Yeah. That's a 34 total.
Liam: 32.
Matt: All right. Everyone over 20, you listen and you can hear very faint voices (whispering), and it sounds like movement moving quicker.
Laura: Scanlan? Maybe now is the time for that door.
Sam: For the door? The mansion?
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Okay. It takes a minute to cast.
Liam: That's not going to work. We've got company coming.
Laura: How near do the voices sound?
Matt: They don't sound like they're getting louder. Doesn't sound like they're getting closer, you just hear voices.
Sam: Do you want me to?
Laura: Let's backtrack to the caved-in tunnel.
Jon: Maybe it's my friends. Should we go?
Laura: No. Let's backtrack to the caved-in tunnel and set up the door.
Marisha: You guys go. I'll wait here just in case.
Jon: I'll stay with you.
Taliesin: Be quiet.
Matt: Okay. You guys make your way towards the caved-in entrance.
Taliesin: I'll stay with the two of you because I can't see shit and I'll slow you down. If things happen, they're going to light up. It'll be all right.
Matt: Okay. So you guys make your way back to the entranceway.
Liam: I actually stay halfway between both.
Matt: You stay halfway between, okay. It's roughly about 150, 200 feet this direction. It's a shallower cavern to this area than the one you came through. It's a longer way in, but you manage to find the other end of this cave-in. It's rocks that have tumbled in and clustered. Keyleth, you glance over and you see shapes moving in the light, and as you glance up ahead, about 30 feet ahead of you, you see six figures heading your direction. Humanoid.
Sam: That's 100,000 dollars, yo. Six figures, moving your direction!
Marisha: Holy shit, a brand new Tesla is coming this way! Okay. Hey, we have people. We have people coming this way, about six of them. Just letting you know, probably going to be some fighting coming up, and that is your update from the Voice of the Tempest.
Liam: I'm creeping back.
Matt: All right. So you go ahead and you meet up with Keyleth. The rest of you are back by the doorway. Scanlan, you're taking a minute to cast this?
Sam: I mean, you told me to do this, right?
Laura: I thought we were not going to fight, but it's up to everybody else.
Taliesin: We may need a place to disappear to, so yes.
Marisha: It's not a bad idea. We can hold them off.
Sam: Okay. I'm out of the fight, then. So I'll start casting and singing.
Matt: Okay, so Scanlan begins working on casting the magnificent--
Sam: (sings) When people keep repeating that you need a place to sleep, when everybody starts retreating but you need a really cool keep, let Scanlan open the door. Let Scanlan open the door! Let Scanlan open the door to your house!
Matt: So as this is commencing-- Oh, I've missed that.
Jon: I've never heard music. I want to stay back with him. No, I'm kidding, I want to stay. I'm still with her.
Matt: All right, so we have Lionel, Keyleth, and eventually Vax, and the rest of you are still back at the entranceway.
Marisha: And Percy.
Matt: Oh, Percy's there.
Laura: I'm going to stand at the entrance of the tunnel and guard Scanlan.
Matt: Okay. Keyleth, you keep an eye out and you watch as they approach. They're in a sprint, a wild sprint. You notice the humanoid figures, there's a lot of clacking sounds, and you immediately notice they're thinner than a fleshed-out human. These are skeletal. They are skeletons in armor with shields and weapons, and they're (snarling) scattering through the hallway towards you at a very fast pace.
Marisha: I'm just going to say, Pike? Pike, I think we've got some undead coming our way. Probably going to need some Divine Smiting.
Ashley: Coming right up.
Matt: Pike's little legs start making her way. It's going to take you a while to get there.
Marisha: As I call Pike, I'm going to go ahead and be like, here we go. (boom).
Matt: What do you do?
Marisha: Fireball.
Matt: A Fireball!
Marisha: I can see them, right? They're close enough?
Matt: For a Fireball, most definitely.
Marisha: Okay. Out of the spire.
Matt: So. Keyleth, I want you to go ahead and roll your damage.
Marisha: Okay. Fireball is... Hang on, wait, I'm not a sorcerer. I should've had this prepared. I admit I should've had this. It's something d8? d10's? Fireball. 8d6 fire damage.
Matt: One of them rolled a natural 20.
Marisha: One, two, three, four, five, six, give me two more.
Matt: That was a 19 and a 20.
Marisha: A 19 and a 20? That's a lot.
Matt: Your spell DC is what, 21?
Marisha: 21, yeah.
Matt: All right, so two of them make their save.
Taliesin: You re-roll.
Marisha: I reroll ones. (counting) 34 damage.
Matt: 34 damage. All right. You watch as four of these skeletons explode, their bones detonating and exploding all over the cavern. You watch as it bounces around and breaks and shatters, and you hear them all clattering into the dust below. Two more push through the flames. You can see the armor, the leather they have on is now burning behind them and is causing this glow in the alley. You see this, Percy.
Taliesin: How loud was this Fireball?
Matt: It was pretty loud. It's a Fireball.
Taliesin: I'll take two shots at the two that came through.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: We're here.
Taliesin: I'm going to curl up to the top and upside-down, take two shots.
Matt: Okay.
Jon: This is with your rifle?
Taliesin: Yeah, with my big rifle. That's not bad. A 20 and a 27 to hit.
Matt: Both hit.
Taliesin: Actually, even more than that.
Matt: Don't even worry about rolling damage because even your minimum damage, with what damage they'd taken from the Fireball? Both shots, you hit them both in the ribcage, in the sternum and the back of the spinal column and they fold into themselves and crumple into spinning pieces of bone. You watch as the momentum of their movement causes them to scatter across the dust. Both of them. (gunshots)
Marisha: Hey, Pike? Hold that order for that divine smiting. We're going to need it probably in a second.
Ashley: I'm here. Did you save any for me?
Taliesin: There will be more.
Marisha: I think there's going to be more.
Ashley: I take out my mace and get ready.
Jon: I want some now.
Matt: All right, as you guys are waiting there... 30 seconds passes. 30 seconds pass. Scanlan, you finish your spell. The doorway appears up. There doesn't appear to be anything else currently coming down the hall after you.
Laura: (singing) Scanlan, open the door.
Marisha: (singing) Scanlan, open the door.
Travis: We going in or what?
Laura: You guys want to camp? Let's go.
Taliesin: Can we leave something here? Is there some sort of alarm that we can set?
Laura: Like a glyph?
Ashley: A Glyph of Warding?
Taliesin: Like a Glyph of Warding.
Ashley: Yes, we can.
Jon: Can you put it on the faces that already exist so that they think--
Ashley: Ooh. Chod!
Sam: And an idiot shall lead them.
Jon: What's an idiot?
Liam: Broken clock. Twice a day. Well done.
Taliesin: Let's take a long rest and see if we can get two more.
Matt: You do notice, Keyleth, that the flickering light, the firelight, is getting brighter. The firelight is now becoming more of a white light, and it's a flickering white light.
Marisha: How hot does a campfire normally get? Not that hot, right?
Laura: Not that hot.
Marisha: Oh no. Something bad. Hey, Pike? Fire. Fire is very white. White fire.
Ashley: Huh.
Laura: Feel like coming to the campsite? Maybe?
Taliesin: Let's start backing up.
Ashley: Okay.
Marisha: Okay.
Marisha: Back up a little bit.
Ashley: Are we close to the faces at all, still?
Matt: You're maybe about 70 to 100 feet.
Ashley: On the way back?
Matt: You're backing up through a different tunnel, so there's no faces that you've seen on this side.
Taliesin: Let's leave it at the shift, so if they go up our tunnel, we'll know.
Ashley: Great. I throw up a Glyph of Warding right there.
Matt: Glyph of Warding. What's the casting time on the glyph?
Ashley: A gift for someone.
Matt: What's the casting time on the glyph?
Sam: A gif of cording.
Matt: Yes, that one.
Laura: We can't find the card.
Ashley: Give me just one second. I don't know if it slipped underneath.
Sam: Probably a minute.
Taliesin: Everything fun takes a minute.
Matt: All right. Glyph of Warding is one hour casting time.
Taliesin: Oh, never mind!
Ashley: You know what? We don't have time, so maybe we can just hop into the mansion.
Taliesin: Watch an episode of House of Cards, and by then Glyph of Warding will be done?
Laura: Keep an eye. Hop in the mansion?
Taliesin: Let's hop in the mansion.
Matt: All right. You guys hop into the mansion. You all make your way into the center of Scanlan's magnificent mansion. Lionel, you step through this weird sparkling purple doorway that wasn't there before, and as you go through, the temperature becomes very comfortable-warm. It's well-kept inside. It's climate-controlled. There's these beautiful marble pillars. There's this royal red and gold carpet that spreads out over this dual staircase that winds up to a second floor. It's a gorgeous mansion. The interior's immaculately designed, and you watch as about a dozen or so spectral people suddenly float in with their arms crossed and give a bow and a nod to you as you arrive.
Laura: Before we go in, will you throw down the Dust of Tracelessness?
Travis: No.
Laura: Grog.
Travis: Yeah. (laughter)
Matt: All right. You guys are all inside the mansion.
Laura: Well. That was fun.
Marisha: It's been a while. You've redecorated.
Sam: I put some new art pieces in here. They're all counterfeit, but still good.
Liam: How's the menu?
Sam: The menu's changed quite a bit.
Taliesin: Oh, do tell.
Sam: Kaylie got sick of chicken about two weeks in, so she's got me on this vegan thing. (sighs) She says it'll make me last longer and feel healthier and stuff.
Laura: Last longer?
Sam: Well, you know. Live longer. She said all that meat was probably bad for me, so it's all salads now.
Marisha: Only salads?
Sam: Yeah. Different kinds of salad.
Laura: That's it? That's all they make, is salad?
Sam: That's what she told them to make, and that's what they're making now.
Laura: But you run the place.
Sam: Well, I don't want to cross her. She has me on a diet, and I'm trying to stick to it. It will be all salad.
Taliesin: Is it more tasteful in here now?
Sam: Tasteful?
Taliesin: Is it more tasteful in the mansion?
Matt: Is it more tasteful in the mansion? No, I didn't think so.
Laura: Is the picture still up that Pike commissioned?
Sam: Yeah, sure. It's there.
Travis: You didn't replace that?
Sam: Maybe we should all retire to our rooms for a while and come back for dinner.
Laura: Is Tary-- does he have his own room, as well?
Sam: Oh, that's the fancy fellow you've brought with you.
Laura: Yeah. Tary, Scanlan. Scanlan, Tary.
Sam: The new Scanlan. Yeah, right.
Travis: Tary, say hi.
Sam: Hello! I'm Taryon Darrington. I've been quite pleased to spend some time with your friends for the last year, and it's-- you have wonderful friends. You should honor and cherish them. They are the best people I've ever met in my life, and this is a lovely home you have.
Travis: Scanlan, don't be rude. Respond.
Sam: (sighs) It's nice to meet you, too. Thank you for looking after my friends. I guess any friend of Vox Machina is a friend of mine. You can use the downstairs. The basement room.
Laura: Scanlan, you can add a room at a thought!
Taliesin: He can have my room.
Laura: He can have your room.
Taliesin: That will be fine.
Jon: Do you have any bunkbeds?
Sam: No. I don't have bunkbeds.
Jon: Do you have a hammock?
Sam: No, I don't think I do, but there might be some spare cots and stuff downstairs.
Travis: Lionel, there is a war room down in the bottom of this bitch.
Jon: War room?
Travis: Yeah. It's got all the things people like you and me need. We're covered.
Jon: Sweet.
Travis: Sand pit, fighting dummies.
Jon: Dibs on the sand pit.
Travis: Shit. (laughter)
Jon: It'll make me feel like I'm at home.
Travis: Fair enough.
Ashley: There's also the spa, right?
Sam: Yeah. It was destroyed but rebuilt. It's lined with iron now, in case there's an explosion.
Liam: Wise.
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: Do you guys all scatter to your rooms for a moment to take a rest?
Laura: I guess so.
Liam: Do you want to play some cards or something?
Sam: Sure! That will be great.
Liam: Want to go back to, what, your room?
Sam: That will be fine, yeah. Let's go.
Matt: All righty. You guys head back to Scanlan's room? We're going to take a break here. We'll return here and pick up from that exact moment here, in just a few minutes. Real fast, we do have a Wyrmwood giveaway. It is the black walnut complete dice tower system and tabletop dice tray with leather rolling surface.
Laura: Should we open it and see what color that is?
Matt: I'll open some of it. I'm not going to open all of it.
Laura: Just one, because it's all black walnut.
Matt: Black walnut is this really nice dark color. The leather interior is really nice. This will be going to the person who wins in the Twitch chat. Enter the code "hundred." The word "hundred" is the code for the evening. Put it in there. Good luck to whoever wins, and we'll see you guys back here in a few minutes. (cheering) [break]
Matt: And welcome back, ladies and gentlemen, to Critical Role. First and foremost, we have our winner in the chat: AJSparks08, congratulations, you won the fantastic Wyrmwood package. Denovo will contact you shortly to get your address and shipping information. Congratulations, on our 100th episode Wyrmwood giveaway! Also, it's come to our attention that the chat room and the Internet is convinced that this is not a real set and we are apparently on a green screen, so I wanted to show you guys how incredibly real this -- no, I'm kidding, it's actually real. It's a real set, it's actually here. It's a real set.
Laura: Don't fuck up the wrinkles, they look so good in the light!
Matt: But I do understand illusions are prominent in magical realms, apparently.
Travis: Because of the beautiful spot behind you, can you give us one Vidal Sassoon wave of your--
Laura: Yeah, because you have a backlight!
Matt: No.
Laura: And a halo around you, because of the shield!
Travis: It's kind of magnificent. Yeah!
Matt: I hate you all so much.
Laura: Now your hair is extra fluffy because you did it.
Matt: God damn it. All right! Why do I listen to these people?
Sam: Maybe he's born with it.
Jon: Maybe it's--
Matt: "Tary?" All right, so leaving us back where we left off, you guys had all scattered to your various rooms in Scanlan's magnificent mansion. Vax, you had gone off with Scanlan?
Liam: Catch up, play cards.
Matt: All right, so you make your way to the chambers.
Liam: Boy, it is more extravagant in here than I remember.
Sam: Well, to be fair, you hadn't spent a lot of time in my room.
Liam: No, but there was just one mirror on the ceiling, and now there are three.
Sam: I need to get every angle, don't I?
Liam: Yeah, that's weird. Do you want to play cards?
Sam: Sure. Rummy gin? Gin rummy? Pinochle?
Liam: Yeah, I'll pretend to know what those are.
Sam: Spades? Hearts?
Liam: Let's do hearts.
Sam: Okay. I'll deal.
Liam: Okay. No idea how to play this game. But Vax does!
Sam: I will win.
Liam: All right, so catch me up, man!
Sam: I mean, there's a lot to talk about in a year. We--
Liam: What happened in the beginning? What happened right after you left? First couple of weeks?
Sam: We went on sort of a walkabout. Me and Kaylie went off to the woods, did some camping. We found some travelers and sang to them, and told stories like we do. Entertained some folks. Some nights were spent alone, some nights in the company of people who wandered by. We weren't too far away from Whitestone.
Liam: So how did you get to Marquet?
Sam: After about a month or two of being hobos, I guess, she wanted to do something. You know, anything. She was getting bored, she's young. So I told her, I don't really have anywhere to go, but I do know of two fuckfaces I have to get revenge on. I asked her if she'd be interested in that, and she said, fuck yeah! So she came down with me. We got a boat, went across the sea, and we went back to that casino. It was really the only piece of unfinished business from our time together that I had to deal with.
Liam: And that somehow stumbled into all this?
Sam: Well, when I got my revenge on them, I learned a bit about what they were up to. They weren't really drug dealers. It's embarrassing, but the drugs they sold me were not real. I know that's hard to believe, but I was swindled by them.
Liam: That is hard to believe. I don't think it's true.
Sam: It is true. They sold me a bunch of shit.
Liam: Oh, surely not, no.
Sam: But they were in this other game, of selling counterfeit stuff. So I did the thing that I knew would hurt them most. I took away their counterfeiter, and now he works for me. So I put them out of business, and I put me into business. And since then I've been doing that for a while, and it turns out I'm very good at it.
Liam: That actually is not surprising.
Sam: We don't try to swindle people who are innocent. We started off by taking down-- well, not taking down, but ripping off a few guys who were corrupt officials in the city, and built from there. It's not a big operation, if I can be honest with you. It's just me and Kaylie and a few other people.
Liam: I mean, I'm not going to lie, I think it's pretty cool.
Sam: Thank you. It is kind of cool. I have this persona, and people know who it is, and when I go places, they're scared of me a little bit.
Liam: I mean, you did save a fucking continent, you are scary.
Sam: That's true.
Liam: It is true.
Sam: I helped, a bit.
Liam: A bit? You've had a year to clear your head, you think it was just a bit?
Sam: I don't know, maybe. We all did our part. We all did our part!
Liam: You know there are multiple times we'd all be dead if it weren't for you. You know that. You know that! And the same could be said for any of us, that's true, but you take any one piece away, and the tower falls. Jenga, man.
Sam: I don't know what that game is. But, I know, I know. Listen, I did a lot of thinking over the year, and I-- Yeah. I appreciate you all much more now than I did, and I realize that you probably appreciated me, too, but at the time I just didn't know. I was so used to being a loner that I didn't know really how to behave in a group, that's all. So I left.
Liam: You know, it was ugly, on all sides, when you left, but I've always understood why you left. I admire it.
Sam: Really?
Liam: I wish my dad gave half as much effort as you have this year. Or I used to. Anyway, you know, we've missed you. Everybody has.
Sam: That's not true.
Liam: It is true. And I certainly have, and if I did anything or said anything to make you feel lonely, I'm sorry. I really am. Fucking missed you, man.
Sam: You don't have to apologize for anything. It was me. It was me, and I don't know if we'll ever have what we had before, but I can tell you that fighting alongside you all was the best time of my life, and not because of the glory, or the fortune, or the fame that we got. It was just to fight alongside you, and to see the looks on your faces when I did something really cool in battle.
Liam: Fucking every time. I know I miss that flair.
Sam: But you've got this new guy, and he seems really-- He's very handsome.
Liam: Well, I don't know. Yeah, he's good looking. That's true. I don't know that we have-- I mean, we've scattered a bit. I live in Zephra now.
Sam: Oh, really?
Liam: I'm on holiday, yeah.
Sam: Zephra Heights?
Liam: Pretty much, yeah. It's all Zephra Heights. No, I'm very happy right now.
Sam: You are happy?
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: That's so weird.
Liam: I know. I was happy for a long time.
Sam: But still with the black. You're not giving that up.
Liam: I mean, this is, no! This is part of the bargain.
Sam: I mean, some turquoise could pop it up a little bit.
Liam: Yeah, but you know I have sunshine in my life every day, so it's all right.
Sam: That's true. How's that all going?
Liam: Fucking the best, man! It's the fucking best!
Sam: Yeah?
Liam: Yeah. But, you know, all I care about is that you're happier now than you were. You seem a little happier.
Sam: I'm certainly better off than I was when I left you all. I don't know that I'm happier, just better off.
Liam: Well, that's a step up. And Kaylie, is she better off?
Sam: Most certainly.
Liam: Well, that's great.
Sam: Listen, thank you for coming up here and stuff. I don't really know what to do with the others.
Liam: Well, again, a lot of hard shit was said on your way out, in many directions, and the way I look at it, it's to be expected. We went through hell together, that's going to have an effect. But even the ones who are angry at you, they did miss you. And family doesn't break apart that easy. Don't scare away. Just be patient.
Sam: I'll try.
Liam: Clap him on the back of the head.
Sam: I can't reach.
Liam: I can. I love you, man.
Sam: You too. I'm sorry.
Liam: It's good to see you.
Sam: We're not going to play cards, are we?
Liam: I don't know how to play this game.
Sam: Yeah, okay.
Liam: But thanks for the conversation.
Sam: Sure.
Liam: That's been about an hour, I think.
Sam: Yeah, you should just go.
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: I mean, yeah.
Liam: I walk away.
Matt: All righty. All right. If anyone else wants to do anything else before dinner, or after?
Marisha: I take all the mirrors off the roof of our bedroom while he talks with Scanlan, and then we go to sleep.
Matt: There are mirrors in yours as well?
Marisha: I assume.
Sam: I hadn't intended on it, but there's definitely a mirror in there.
Matt: All right. Your wonderful exposé on salad types are presented to you by the spectral servants. A fantastic dinner of greens of all shades--
Travis: Where's the meat?
Sam: There's lima beans.
Taliesin: Do they serve meat for guests, or is it just Scanlan that's barred?
Liam: Not even chicken salad in this mansion?
Sam: No, the closest we have is lima beans.
Laura: They know how to make chicken, though, I know the servants know how to make chicken!
Sam: If I have them make chicken, they'll tell her, and I'll get in trouble.
Taliesin: Tell her you didn't have any.
Travis: That's true. I have an idea. Bring me a cow. No, I'm kidding.
Matt: The spectral servant's like--
Sam: Don't do it.
Travis: It worked once before.
Sam: Listen. They make a great cucumber salad. They've got an excellent endive.
Travis: What?
Laura: Fabulous.
Sam: A couscous. And a tabbouleh.
Ashley: So, basically, it's one of those meals that you're still hungry when you eat it all.
Sam: Yeah, it's really not filling at all. It's terrible.
Matt: And he's not lying.
Taliesin: Do we lose hit points from this meal?
Laura: Oh, shit, did we say that we have to buy chalices before we have any more fucking feasts?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Shit balls.
Liam: Said Vex.
Laura: We're out of chalices!
Ashley: Do we have any chalices in here?
Sam: For what?
Matt: They're referring to the Heroes' Feast meal, but no. Stuff like that, you stock up on.
Laura: We've got to remember. We've got to do it.
Matt: All right. So the meal is filling to varying degrees of enjoyment, but you find rest at your disposal. Relatively early into your day, though it is night in Ank'harel. You guys have been awake for approximately five hours. Do you go to rest?
Sam: I mean, if we all rest, when we wake up, those things are gonna be swarming outside the door, right?
Laura: Yes, potentially, or they could have given up. What if we just peek out the door and see?
Sam: We can do that.
Laura: Yeah. I'm going to peek out the door.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Very stealthily open the door a little bit and see. Yeah, I'm going to stay inside the door but just look outside the door.
Matt: You peek outside the door, and right as you glance through, you see about 13 or so skeletons that are all clustered right there at the door going (zombie groans).
Laura: Ah, fuck. Shut it.
Taliesin: I feel like that can wait till morning.
Laura: I think it might keep getting worse, I'm not sure.
Sam: Maybe we should sleep.
Liam: We wait till morning and we throw Pike out the door.
Ashley: Yeah, that's fine. I'll volunteer.
Jon: Can they come into this magic door?
Sam: No, they have to be invited.
Jon: They can't? Are they vampires?
Liam: They're all bones.
Jon: Okay. So we're okay. They can't come in.
Sam: For a while.
Jon: Is there a back door to this place?
Sam: Oh, no.
Jon: So if we wake up in the morning and there's 200 of them, then--
Sam: We're fucked.
Marisha: We're okay. We have Pike.
Taliesin: We have options.
Jon: What's Pike going to do?
Ashley: Undead is my favored terrain.
Jon: Are you going to talk to them?
Ashley: I could. But what's the point?
Jon: Well, maybe they have secrets. Do you have Commune with Skeletons?
Marisha: Not all skeletons are like ducks.
Laura: Yeah, some of them are a lot meaner.
Ashley: If we find your friends, I can talk to them if they're dead.
Jon: Maybe they're unhappy with their employer. Maybe we can find their good side.
Laura: We could turn some undead.
Ashley: That's not a bad idea.
Jon: I'm sorry, I never talk so much. I'm just really hungry after that stupid meal.
Ashley: Same, it's okay. I feel starving.
Taliesin: Let's have a nightcap.
Sam: They can make you a fruit smoothie.
Laura: Yes. I want that. I do want it. Yes. Bring it.
Taliesin: That may be breakfast.
Travis: That'll give you the runs, you don't want that.
Marisha: Can we put some rum in it?
Ashley: Can you have eggs, or is that not vegan?
Sam: She said vegan. No eggs.
Laura: This fucking sucks.
Taliesin: A shallow ghost of a dinner served by shallow ghosts of people. I'm ready for a nightcap, and an end of the evening.
Matt: So you pull out the various bottles you've stored amongst Grog's Bag of Holding. Scatter a nightcap amongst those who wish to partake, and find yourself resting for the evening within the mansion.
Taliesin: To a death in the morning.
Marisha: To a pina colada.
Laura: As we're walking towards the rooms, can I pull Pike aside for a second?
Matt: Sure. So as you guys are heading off--
Laura: How are you?
Ashley: Well, I'm fine. I'm just finding myself a little angry.
Laura: Well, I think it's reasonable to be angry.
Ashley: And I'm trying not to be.
Laura: It's a different side of you.
Ashley: I know. I don't like it. But I can't help it. What should I do?
Laura: Well. Your emotions are justified. But you found it in your heart to forgive your family, and they did terrible things to you. Maybe it's harder with people that are closer. They cut deeper.
Ashley: Yeah. I think it's just because I didn't really know them. Maybe it was easier to just let them go, and I wasn't as angry as I am with him.
Laura: Have you talked to Sarenrae about it?
Ashley: No. I'm just nervous. I know what she'll say, and have me do, and I just want to be--
Laura: You don't want to do it yet.
Ashley: I don't want to do it! I just want to be mad for a while, I guess, but... I don't know. I guess just seeing him again. Slowly but surely, I'm not as mad, but--
Laura: He's still charming.
Ashley: I know, I just feel like now I'm acting like I'm mad, almost, around him. I don't know. He's making me feel so many different kinds of emotions. I'm confused.
Laura: I don't know what tomorrow will bring. Probably a battle of some sort, which is usually life-endangering. Just ask yourself if you would want to die without saying how you feel.
Ashley: Okay. That's a good idea. I would feel very bad if something happened to him and I didn't say anything. I mean, if I died, then I just wouldn't know, I guess.
Laura: You'd know a few minutes later when we tried to bring you back. I just spit on you, I'm sorry.
Ashley: It's fine, I don't care. Okay. Well, that's true. Thank you.
Laura: It's hard.
Ashley: I know. It is hard.
Laura: Well, you know, if you feel like staying up and wandering around and talking to some people--
Taliesin: I come running up. No, now. We're going. Good night. Good night! Now! Now. No more. Good night!
Ashley: Well, good night.
Taliesin: Good night!
Ashley: Okay. Well, good night, you two.
Laura: We haven't been here in a while.
Taliesin: I know. I kind of want to break a few things. You've earned it, fucker.
Ashley: I go and I knock on Grog's door.
Matt: Okay. Grog doesn't have a door, Grog is currently staying in the war room area.
Ashley: Oh, that's right.
Matt: So as you head down, you see, curled up on the sand pit, this half-orc snoring loudly, like a golden retriever that had rotated twice and passed out in the sand. Grog, what are you doing?
Travis: I'm like the dog that's staring at the cat that stole its fucking bed.
Jon: Can't argue with the dibs policy.
Travis: It's supreme. It's absolute. It's binding in all planes.
Jon: All barbarians understand it. It's the law.
Ashley: I stand next to him and stare at Chod-- Lionel in the sand pit.
Travis: This is bullshit, right? Everything I had, everything I was, right there. Just another one.
Ashley: Grog, I know that you probably feel replaced, but there's no way he could fill your shoes.
Travis: I mean, he's big! Look at those feet! It's like clown feet! I bet he's a great swimmer.
Ashley: He could-- I mean, but his feet are a little bit too big, you know.
Travis: Yeah, too big.
Ashley: Your feet are just right.
Travis: Right. Mm-hm.
Ashley: I have an idea. How about we go get a bunch of blankets, the ones out of my room. We'll just make a fort by the fireplace. We'll make a better spot.
Travis: A new spot. Yeah, okay.
Ashley: I just talked to Vex, and she said that maybe if something were to happen tomorrow, maybe it would be better to just say some things, so that you're not, you know, thinking about it if somebody dies.
Travis: Is somebody dying tomorrow?
Ashley: No.
Travis: Are you going to die? Pike, you mean the world to me. Listen, I couldn't go on--
Ashley: I'll be fine, I promise. Just, I guess, Scanlan.
Travis: What?
Ashley: Maybe, do you feel like you want to talk to him?
Travis: No! Yes. No!
Ashley: I think I'm angry with him, but I can tell you're also angry with him.
Travis: Yeah!
Ashley: So I'll stay mad at him as long as you are.
Travis: Really?
Ashley: But I feel like maybe he feels a little bad.
Travis: Are you sure? I can't tell. He changed the inside of the mansion. He's got a new dog sleeping in the sandpit. He called him his best man. You heard it. I did.
Ashley: That was weird.
Travis: Yeah. It's fucked up, is what it was.
Ashley: Well, you know what we should do? We should just tomorrow--
Travis: Kill him.
Ashley: That's definitely an option, but I feel like maybe we could just try to be better than him. Maybe you could really show off, and show him that you are better, and that we're better, and we're better friends, and you know, that he should come back and hang out with us.
Travis: Yeah! No, I like this idea. This is really something we can roll with! Yeah! He should miss us! In fact, he should be coming to beg us to be like, I miss you! You're so cool!
Ashley: He should!
Travis: Yeah! We've got to make him remember.
Ashley: We've got to make him remember.
Travis: Yep.
Ashley: We've got to make him remember how great we are and what he's lost.
Travis: Yeah. So tomorrow, all the tricks out the bag, throw caution to the wind, you and me, it's a show.
Ashley: All the tricks.
Travis: Yeah.
Jon: I suddenly wake up. You guys, I'm used to sleeping alone. You guys are talking so much.
Ashley: Oh, sorry, we didn't realize you were awake.
Travis: Just roll over. If you pile the sand up, you make little earmuffs.
Jon: It's not working, I'm used to silence, and you guys are like two alarms.
Travis: We're going to go. We go make a blanket fort.
Ashley: We make a blanket fort by the fireplace.
Travis: Yeah.
Jon: Thank you!
Matt: All right. As you guys go make a blanket fort, curl up and sleep takes you. The next morning, you come to consciousness, are greeted with a fantastic, spiritually brought, vegan breakfast.
Laura: Ooh, but like an acai bowl?
Sam: Yeah, sure. Yeah, that's a thing.
Matt: There you go, so it picks up the second day! There you go.
Laura: Is there granola?
Travis: It doesn't pick up. Don't defend this shit!
Matt: Comparatively!
Travis: Just because it's sweet doesn't mean that it's savory or satisfying.
Matt: Fair enough.
Jon: There's nothing sticking it together, so it's just loose.
Taliesin: It's only the things that make granola good that make it not vegan.
Jon: Exactly. It's just all loose.
Travis: Any proteins that used to have a heartbeat, in any way? No? Yeah, fuck it.
Liam: This is a world of magic and delight!
Laura: It's going to catch up when you burp really good.
Marisha: But we have a sound guy who's like--
Laura: But what if I want it to catch when I burp?
Marisha: That's what sound guys do.
Matt: That's how it works? Okay. So what's the plan, guys?
Liam: Stay in the mansion forever.
Matt: Yeah.
Jon: Let's take a look again.
Ashley: Can I peek out the door?
Travis: Pike and I go to peek out the door, because we're not eating shit vegan breakfast.
Matt: Okay. You peek out into the hallway, and there before you, you see about 20 or so armored skeletons that are all clustered into this hallway, maybe five feet between a few of them, but they're scattered throughout, they're just in this holding pattern.
Travis: What do you see?
Ashley: There's just 20 or so skeletons out there.
Travis: This is the perfect opportunity!
Ashley: This is the perfect opportunity. Maybe we take care of it ourselves?
Travis: I'm saying! You lead the way!
Ashley: Let's do it.
Travis: Do it.
Sam: Oh, shit.
Taliesin: Oh, shit.
Marisha: I approve of this so hard.
Sam: Wait, we're all still eating breakfast?
Matt: You guys are eating breakfast, wondering where Pike and Grog are.
Travis: Before we break through the door, I should yell something like, Pike, don't be so brave!
Ashley: Okay, you can yell, Pike, don't be so brave, and then I can say something like, but Grog, you're too strong! I don't know, let me workshop it.
Travis: Yeah.
Ashley: Grog, you're too strong! You're too strong, you're just going to kill them all anyway.
Travis: This is true.
Ashley: Should we just wing it?
Travis: Yeah, just what happens.
Ashley: Okay, ready?
Travis: On the count of what?
Ashley: On the count of three.
Travis: I can do that.
Ashley: I know you can!
Travis: All right.
Ashley: Okay. I'm going to get my mace ready.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: I have my blood axe.
Liam: Back at the breakfast table, just before they make whatever loud sound they're doing: It's good, it's almond milk, but I like cream a little bit (explosion).
Matt: Yep, suddenly you guys hear-- What do they hear?
Travis: One.
Ashley: Two. Three.
Travis: Oh, that's it, yeah. Three!
Matt: All right. Scanlan, because this is your mansion, you feel the door, suddenly, you sense the breaching of the front door opening.
Sam: Oh, God. The door's open.
Ashley: Grog, you're so strong!
Travis: Oh, Pike, you're so brave!
Laura: Oh, shit.
Travis: You put yourself before others!
Laura: I take off running.
Ashley: I'm going to start swinging my mace.
Matt: You guys all of a sudden drop your meals and start charging out. The door's already open, and it's vacant. You guys, as you charge out, all of a sudden you watch as ten of these creatures (zombie snarling) and leap towards you. What are you doing, Pike?
Ashley: I start swinging my Mace of Disruption. Can I just do this as I go through?
Matt: You'll still do attacks, but they'll get attacks on you as you go back and forth.
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: You rush forward. Go ahead and make your attack. Is it, as a war-- do you have two attacks? As a bonus action, you can attack, right?
Ashley: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah! I forgot, I haven't done this in a minute with undead! Okay.
Laura: What does the Mace of Disruption do to undead?
Liam: Area of effect, y'all.
Matt: No, no, it just hits targets. It's the other one does.
Ashley: It says when you hit a fiend or undead with this magic weapon, the creature takes an extra 2d6 radiant damage.
Matt: Yep.
Ashley: So. Oh, okay. So 17 and 22.
Matt: 17 and 22 both hit. Go ahead and roll damage for each, with the additional disruption damage.
Ashley: Okay, so, I don't have all of the dice out.
Laura: See, this is why you take the time at the beginning to organize.
Matt: I know. Grog, while this is happening, you're also charging in with her and you're attacking?
Travis: Yeah, Great Weapon Master with the blood axe.
Matt: Go ahead and make your two attacks with it.
Ashley: So with undead I also roll an additional 2d6, so am I doing four? How many?
Matt: You would do additional damage as part of your cleric's war--
Ashley: Okay, so 1d6, plus 2d8.
Matt: Is the additional disruption damage?
Ashley: Is just one strike. Sorry, I haven't done this in a while.
Matt: All right, so as a war domain cleric, you can make a weapon attack as a bonus action, up to your wisdom modifier per day, so that's one use there. And you deal an additional 1d8 weapon damage on the attack, so it's-- How much damage does your mace do?
Ashley: 1d6 plus six and 2d8 is what I have written down.
Laura: For Divine Strike.
Ashley: For Divine Strike.
Matt: Correct, yes. Yeah, because you reached 14th level. So yeah, it's plus 2d8. You got it. 1d6 plus 2d8 plus whatever the disruption damage is.
Ashley: Okay, so 18.
Matt: 18 damage on the first hit? You slam the mace into the side of a skeleton, and it crushes a lot of the bone, and a lot of it just seems to erode away as the divine flash impacts it, and you watch as the bleached white turns to gray and black. However, it still stands, largely wrecked, but still (zombie snarling). And your second attack, you hit the same one?
Ashley: Yep.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll damage for that one.
Ashley: Okay. 14.
Matt: All right, that one (whack) you hit the side of the skull, and the head just turns into dust to the side. The bones collapse into a pile. You destroyed one skeleton out of about 20 or so. Grog, what are you doing?
Travis: I did my first attack, it was a 26, and so was the second one, both with Great Weapon Master.
Matt: Both hit with Great Weapon Master. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: The first one was 26 damage.
Matt: You completely destroy a skeleton in one hit. It turns into a scattering of bone (shatter) across the wall.
Travis: That's what up.
Ashley: Grog, it's so crazy how strong you are! They're all dying!
Travis: I know, but I only do it to protect my friends! And the second one is 39 points of damage.
Matt: And with that second hit, a second skeleton that's leaping towards you, with a giant scimitar in the air and a buckler around the side of its wrist, (zombie snarling), you just batter-up swing it, and it explodes across and rains down upon you. Pike, a couple of the bones hit your armor, fall to the side.
Travis: With my bonus action, can I go into a rage and go, I kill these skeletons because I would never replace a friend like you!
Ashley: I know, Grog!
Matt: All right, and so as you guys are rushing into the doorway, the skeletons immediately turn and swarm in. That's going to be five attacks on each of you within this range here. So, against Pike.
Laura: Quick, use your spells!
Matt: All right, so it misses Pike. Misses Pike. God, misses Pike. Misses Pike. And a 20. What's your AC?
Ashley: My AC is 23.
Matt: 23. All of them leap onto you, but they can't get through the armor. They're all clustered up around you, they're piled up almost, like you're just being dogpiled by skeletons, and while none of them are getting to your flesh, there are all these skulls biting in front of your face as you're holding them back with your shield and mace. Grog. Miss. Natural one, miss. Two, miss. 20?
Travis: That hits.
Matt: And 21?
Travis: Also hits.
Matt: All right. So, you take 22 points of slashing damage, reduced to 11, from the two attacks together. As both of these skeletons just start hacking into you with their weapons. One has a long sword, one has what looks to be some sort of a war pick and is just, both of them, jamming into your flesh, and you just take it without an issue. All right. You guys all rush to the door and you look out and you can see this group of undead there, swarming your two friends. You get there just-- Well, you start preparing for the round. They're going first. Pike, what are you doing?
Ashley: I'm going to Guiding Bolt down the hallway. Towards the rest of the skeletons.
Matt: Guiding Bolt can only hit one target.
Ashley: Oh shit!
Matt: Yeah, the area effects that you have are your Turn Undead or Destroy Undead, or any of the spells that you have.
Laura: Destroy Undead!
Ashley: Oh yeah, Destroy Undead. Fuck, I forgot about-- Sorry, it's been a minute since I've been around them. Okay, yeah, Destroy Undead.
Liam: Come on, cleric.
Matt: Okay. So you are--
Ashley: It's been a minute.
Matt: Yeah. You're a 17th level cleric now? 16th level? What level are you?
Ashley: I think 16th level. I don't know if I've leveled.
Matt: Yeah, 16th level. So, CR 3 or lower. These are definitely there. All right. All righty. So, you're going to affect with that, in a radial area here, which is a radius of 30 feet. That's going to affect 15 of these undead.
Laura: Nice!
Matt: Within the ones that are piled on you, that piled on Grog, and the ones that are swarming behind. What's your spell DC?
Ashley: 18.
Matt: Okay. Rolled an 18, but it's a minus one.
Laura: Yay. Do you roll for all 15?
Matt: Mm-hm.
Liam: Here he goes. Math. Still math.
Matt: Oh, no, that one survived.
Liam: More math.
Laura: Don't confuse him. It's a lot to keep track of. Hey guys, we have these amazing art prints by David Mack.
Matt: Almost done.
Ashley: Oh fuck, are they all making it?
Matt: All right. So, out of the 15, two survive. As you're held down by all of these skeletons, suddenly this beacon of divine, bright flame begins to burst from you. And you watch as the flaming wings of Sarenrae swirl up out of her like a phoenix. And as it does, you see above her the image of the dark skin, light flaming hair Sarenrae embodying her like a JoJo stand, as it takes this pose. And as soon as Pike brings her arms out and screams (yells), the image bursts out and you watch as every skeleton practically in that radius just turns to ash and dust in the vicinity, leaving two skeletons there, that are like (breathy groan). So there's maybe four of them left in the whole tunnel, from that one burst.
Travis: Damn!
Laura: I nudge Scanlan.
Travis: That was amazing.
Ashley: Do you think Scanlan saw?
Travis: Yeah, how could he miss it?
Sam: I'm at the door.
Travis: (voice breaking) You and me against the world, huh?
Ashley: You and me, Grog. We're so loyal to each other.
Travis: Yep, to the end. Best friends.
Ashley: Best friends till the end.
Matt: Grog, what are you doing?
Travis: I'm hitting things.
Matt: All right, so you rush up to the two.
Liam: I walk back to the kitchen and start clearing people's plates.
Matt: Okay. (laughter)
Sam: I'll step out into the fray just to watch.
Travis: A regular strike, 25.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: Ooh, and a 17.
Matt: Yeah, they all hit.
Travis: That's as low as I can roll.
Matt: 17 is a low for you.
Travis: I know. 16 points of damage on the first one.
Matt: All right, first hit, it smacks into the side and breaks part of its upper shoulder and upper arm. It cuts off one of its arms, but it's still standing there in front of you.
Travis: That's embarrassing. I use the second strike on the same skeleton and hope Scanlan didn't notice.
Sam: I saw. (laughter)
Travis: Fuck. 15 points of damage.
Matt: 15 points of damage does destroy the skeleton, the one that's giving you a hard time. This time you just cleave through the center of its spinal column and torso. It tumbles over and just scatters into a pile of bones.
Travis: Yeah. He saw it, didn't he? I fucked it up. He saw it and my whole plan's gone to shit.
Ashley: So much is happening at once, he can't see, he didn't see.
Matt: All right, so. Vex, you're at the door. Scanlan, you're at the door. You're at the door, Lionel. What are you guys doing?
Laura: I sh-- I'm going to hold it.
Matt: There's three skeletons still standing.
Laura: All right, I'll shoot one of the skeletons.
Matt: Go for it. Roll for attack. Lionel, what are you doing?
Jon: I'm just like  it's cool. I'm just watching. I forget, you know--
Matt: Okay.
Jon: But then I see and I'm like  Oh, I got them. So I think it's now time to impress Grog a little bit, because he knows-- He goes into a rage.
Matt: All right, so you go into a rage. Pull your great sword?
Jon: My what? (laughter)
Matt: All right, so you're charging out. What did you roll?
Laura: Oh, I just decided maybe I shouldn't hit them, though.
Matt: All right, so you go to fire and then pull the arrow back.
Laura: Because I rolled a one. (laughter)
Matt: Oh.
Jon: Wait a second.
Laura: Oh no, it's the chicken-Scanlan incident all over again.
Matt: So what happens is, you go and release it, and you just mis-strung it (sound of rope snapping), and you're like: Oh, I just didn't--
Laura: You know what? I'm going to leave it. It's for them.
Travis: She's got the bruise on the--
Matt: Yeah. So you rush up alongside Grog at the three skeletons that are there.
Laura: I got a blood blister on my arm.
Jon: I roll this?
Taliesin: Yeah, and you add the attack bonus of your great sword, which is right in the center.
Jon: Plus 12.
Taliesin: Oh, natural 20!
Matt: Oh, critical hit on the first hit?
Travis: Motherfucker.
Matt: All right, so that hits. Roll the second attack.
Sam: He's so strong.
Laura: Don't say that!
Taliesin: Another?! What?! What?!
Jon: Another 20.
Matt: Did you roll two 20s in a row?
Taliesin: Oh my god.
Jon: He's raging, dude, and he's had a really great sleep in the sand.
Sam: I've never seen anyone so strong and powerful before.
Taliesin: He doesn't even understand what just happened.
Jon: Are you getting turned on?
Sam: Yes!
Matt: You're honing Vin Diesel right now with this crit power.
Jon: Well, he's finally-- He likes these guys, he wants to finally show off and do something cool.
Taliesin: Travis just aged a year.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: So you rush forward to the first skeleton. Roll 2d6.
Taliesin: Roll 4d6.
Matt: Yeah, roll 4d6.
Taliesin: Roll four of these.
Jon: Which ones? Okay.
Taliesin: And I think you get to reroll.
Jon: I have to roll the two dice.
Taliesin: Yeah, roll those and add two more. Or roll them twice. Yeah, there you go. Four of those.
Matt: And then you get to reroll any ones or twos.
Taliesin: Oh my god!
Travis: What? Are they all fucking sixes?
Jon: Is that a six?
Taliesin: That's a six.
Jon: Six, six, three, three.
Matt: Okay, so 12, 18 plus?
Travis: Percy, take your hand off of him.
Jon: No, he needs the help.
Matt: So as you rush forward with your greatsword, big smile on your face, next to Grog. Whack! You just shatter one skeleton with the first attack. Roll damage for the second attack.
Taliesin: All four.
Matt: All four again.
Sam: Six. That one's cocked, reroll it. Six. (laughter)
Travis: I'm leaving. I'm going away.
Jon: And I'm like  Grog, look at this, this is awesome! I think I'm channeling you.
Travis: (strained voice) Yep. Real impressive.
Matt: You just, one skeleton, the other comes jumping at you and you just grab it in your hand and crush its skull in your hand.
Travis: (strained voice) That was real cool.
Jon: And then I go  Look, I'm a gymnast! (laughter)
Jon: With all the chalk and everything.
Liam: You've got to appreciate that, Travis.
Travis: (strained voice) It was a good moment. That was really impressive.
Matt: Percy. You want to do anything?
Taliesin: I'm just going to sit next to Vex and I think we're just going to stand and let this happen.
Matt: So Pike, Grog, Lionel, you're right there, there's one skeleton left that's like (breathy hiss). And it leaps at you, since you just crushed its friend. And it hits you on your breastplate and just goes (metal ringing out sound) (breathy hiss). That's all it does. It's a sad sight.
Jon: Look, it's doing the Duck Flail to me. It's not as good, but that is what he's doing.
Matt: All right, who wants to finish this poor thing?
Ashley: Finish him, Grog, finish it.
Travis: I'm broken on the inside. Did you see that display?
Ashley: Grog, I need your help!
Travis: (yells) Reckless, Great Weapon Master. (laughter)
Matt: Go for it, Grog.
Travis: A one?!
Taliesin: Yes!
Travis: A one?!! (laughter and yelling)
Ashley: Can I War God's Bless it?
Matt: A natural one is an auto fail. I cannot-- I cannot--
Travis: What is going on?! (laughter)
Matt: As you look at the one skeleton, just feeling this embarrassment, you swing with your axe and the skeleton (metal impact sound) stops it with its own blade and parries the axe to the side. The one that just didn't barely dent his armor.
Jon: And then I say  It's okay, Grog. Everybody messes up sometimes, let me get this one. (laughter)
Jon: Can I roll?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: That's a nine.
Sam: As he rolls, I will inspire him.
Jon: Nine plus 12, that's 21. 22!
Sam: I'm going to sing-- Oh well, that's fine, that's fine.
Matt: So that hits. Go ahead and roll damage. Just 2d6 plus seven. Well, plus your--
Taliesin: Just two.
Jon: Oh, okay.
Sam: Okay, that's not as good.
Matt: Well, it's plus seven, plus your rage damage. So it's plus ten.
Sam: To this? 15.
Taliesin: No, plus seven also.
Matt: Plus ten to whatever he rolled there.
Sam: Five plus ten.
Matt: All right, so 20 points. So as you hack down this other skeleton, you cut into it and it destroys part of its torso. Its arm that's holding its weapon is hanging to the side, but it's still standing. Its jaw is unhinged.
Taliesin: You get another shot, don't you?
Matt: Yep. So you attack again.
Taliesin: Yeah, attack again.
Jon: Four?
Taliesin: 16?
Matt: 16 still hits. It's a skeleton. That's enough. You finish it off. You destroy the other skeleton in two hits.
Jon: That was kind of a tough one, I get it. It's okay. That was a really hard skeleton. But he's dead now. Let's go--
Ashley: We had it. We just-- We had it.
Jon: Can we eat these skeletons, because that breakfast is still blowing.
Ashley: Yes you can. Give it a bite. Give it a bite.
Jon: Is there any meat left on those bones?
Sam: Chod, that was amazing. You slew those skeletons like they were nothing. Incredible.
Jon: Oh, I just do whatever I can for my friends. You guys are all awesome and I'm just glad I could be of service and help.
Sam: Yes. It's good to have someone like you by our side.
Jon: Awesome!
Ashley: I walk back inside of the mansion.
Travis: I take out the giant cask of ale and I just...
Matt: Just chug it.
Sam: Are you drinking it or just pouring it all over you?
Travis: Both.
Liam: I come out with fresh coffee for Percy and Keyleth. What happened?
Taliesin: It was beautiful, terrible. I'm not entirely sure.
Ashley: Chod saved the day. Chod saved the day.
Taliesin: Well, really, he cleaned up after you two finished it all off.
Ashley: He did. He did.
Taliesin: He swept up.
Laura: That was a lot of skeletons that you killed, Pike, with that spell. That was really good.
Taliesin: You and Grog were most of the skeletons, easily.
Ashley: Yeah.
Sam: Are we all back in the mansion?
Matt: You're all back in the mansion, now.
Liam: Why is it so tense in here all of a sudden?
Sam: I think I know what's going on.
Ashley: I don't know what happened.
Sam: Grog. Grog, Pike, can I say something? I feel like there's some tension between us and we need to clear the air if we're going to go fight today. You guys are really bad today. Well. And I think it's because I haven't made you feel at ease. So can I please just take a moment before we go out there and just, for once and for all, say I'm sorry to you guys for what I did and how I left things. I said things that were really cruel and meant to hurt you, and that's wrong and I'll probably regret it for the rest of my life. But I needed to go and I just didn't know how to express myself. And I'm so sorry that I insulted you. Pike, I've said awful things to you for as long as we've known each other, and I can't take them back, but I can at least try to be a better person. And can I confess something to you? During the last year, I've-- I think I've been praying. I mean, I just talk at night and nobody hears me, but I guess that's praying, right? And sometimes I talk to Sarenrae, because that's the only one I know. And she seems cool. And she seems like someone who could be a good guide. And it feels good. And I even wrote a little poem about her and about her teachings. It's very simple, but can I tell you it?
Ashley: Let's hear.
Sam: It's really simple. It goes  "Everybody people, everybody bleed, everybody need something. Everybody love, everybody know, how it go." I know it's stupid, but there's a certain Logic to it.
Ashley: Certain Logic to it. That actually makes a lot of sense.
Sam: It makes me feel connected to you guys, even though you're not there. So I say that to myself every night before I go to sleep.
Ashley: It just makes you feel connected to Everybody people.
Sam: Yeah.
Ashley: Yeah.
Sam: And Grog.
Travis: No, stop.
Sam: I can't apologize to you, because words don't work.
Travis: So, let me get this straight. You think you can go away for a year, and come back, in a disguise, and apologize to this group, and that's going to be good enough for me? And then when I'm still pissed, you're going to give me a combo apology with Pike, and that's going to be good enough for me? I'm still pissed. You came back in a costume. A costume! I'm not even really that smart, it's not hard to trick me. And I'm a big guy, but you made me feel small. I don't know if you missed us; I don't know if somebody is making us go down into this Zigga-fuck.
Ashley: (whispers) Ziggurat.
Travis: Ziggurat. I don't even know why we're here. I thought maybe you'd come back and be like, oh my best mate, the guy that would do anything to keep me alive, there he is, I missed him. No. You come back, you've found yourself a brand new idiot. One that does amazing strikes, twice in a row. And talks to ducks. Has all sorts of new tricks, brand new model, new and improved in every way. I bet you do all sorts of fun things with him. So no. You do not get to apologize to me.
Sam: I wasn't going to. I was just going to give you a gift. Because the times we had together were the best times ever. You might be a little slow. But you're the best friend I ever had. And our times together were great, not because of our conversations, or our witty repartee. It was because of the fun we had together and the experiences we had. So last night, I wrote something for you. I know you can't read, but--
Laura: He can read.
Travis: No, Vex. He doesn't know that.
Sam: I just got you a gift. Because if you won't spend time with me now, maybe you'll be able to spend time on your own. So I wrote you this. Maybe someone else can read it for him.
Ashley: He might be able to read it, Scanlan.
Laura: It depends on if there are long words.
Sam: There's really long words.
Travis: It's a big word. It's a bit--
Ashley: Well, just give it a try.
Travis: Aoo, ooh, shh.
Sam: Nope. Nope.
Travis: (whispering) I'm really embarrassed. I'm really embarrassed.
Ashley: (whispering) I'll whisper it to you, then you say it out loud.
Travis: (clears throat) Yeah, I don't feel like showing off my powers. I can't read the dirty hand of betrayal.
Ashley: All who read this, let it be known, by order of Aes Adon-- it's a stupid name, Scanlan. But it's fine.
Sam: It's Elvish.
Liam: It's a stupid name.
Ashley: AKA the Meat Man, AKA Vicoul the Vicious, AKA Reddish the Bold, AKA the Little Paws, AKA François Bertrand Jean-Luc Australia, be aware that the bearer of this note, Grog Strongjaw, shall be entitled to any libation of his choosing at any pub, tavern, restaurant, inn, alehouse, brewery, or house of lady favors within the city limits of Ank'Harel. He shall be allowed to drink until drunk, and enjoy no molestation by any employee of said establishment, unless he requests it. All charges and bills related to his drinking, cavorting, or violent behavior resulting from drunkenness, shall be forwarded to the Meat Man for timely payment in full. By complying with this request, you are hereby under the protection of the Meat Man, and shall receive all the benefits and goodwill accompanying such association. The Meat Man always remembers. Sincerely, Aes Adon.
Travis: Probably best to test it out. See if it's even worth anything.
Sam: Grog, I love you. I'm sorry that we won't get to hang out, because you hate me now. But I would never replace you. And if you ask me right now--
Travis: You'll kill him?
Sam: I will kill him.
Jon: Who? (hushed laughter)
Taliesin: (quietly) I wouldn't worry about it.
Jon: Okay. I really like this job.
Travis: He's all right. (hushed laughter)
Sam: Will you go drinking with me some time?
Travis: We'll see. By the way, I want you to know when you died, I sang a song I would never sing for anyone else, and I'm sorry you didn't hear it, but it was really hard.
Sam: Is that true?
Laura: Yes.
Liam: Yes.
Sam: He sang?
Taliesin: Yes.
Jon: Do a truthful check.
Laura: Do you know what he sang?
Sam: A truthful check? Sure, I'll roll a truthful check.
Matt: An insight check? Okay.
Sam: Natural 20.
Laura: Whoa.
Matt: Honest as the day, or Grog dick is long, he apparently sang.
Travis: It is, I can just lean forward.
Marisha: Happy 100th.
Matt: Happy 100th. (laughter)
Laura: Grog, I didn't hear it. Maybe you should sing it, and let him know what it was.
Travis: Oh, you know, it's like the face of death in the hallway, once it uses up its power, it's done.
Sam: I'm so sorry I missed it. And I hope someday we'll sing together, in a drunken stupor together. Maybe that will remind you.
Travis: Maybe.
Sam: I was an asshole, Grog, I'm sorry. I would never, never replace you, ever. You're irreplaceable.
Ashley: And he could've read this, by the way.
Sam: That's incredible.
Travis: I would've gotten the name right.
Marisha: Wait, did you frame it like a coupon book? That's very impressive.
Sam: I had some time last night.
Ashley: Coupons, that you can sort of pick out of it like a--
Laura: A free massage.
Marisha: Like a couple on Valentine's Day. Who forgot it was Valentine's Day.
Ashley: It looks like there's a free steak.
Sam: Listen, we need to go kill some things right now, but I just want to say to all of you, I'm so sorry the way I left, it was awful of me. Percival, I said awful things to you, I said awful things to all of you. But just know I've done and said worse things to Kaylee, and she's forgiven me, and I've done and said worse things to myself, and I've managed to forgive myself, and I hope that someday, you'll all be able to forgive me. And until then, I'll just keep trying, and that's all I can do. And after this fight, if you want me to stay, and you guys go home, that's fine. But if not, maybe we can start over.
Matt: Vex, Vax, Keyleth. At this moment, you hear what sounds like footsteps making their way up the tunnel. Not where the light was before, but the path you previously stepped from.
Marisha: Does it sound like skeletons, or heavier?
Matt: From just your passing hearing, it just sounds like patterned footsteps.
Laura: I cast Pass Without a Trace on everybody.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Everybody quiet down.
Marisha: We're inside a glowing door, I think they know where we are.
Matt: So, you guys all close the door to the mansion.
Laura: Well, I don't want to close the door to the mansion, but turn out the lights in the mansion so you can't see.
Marisha: No one's home! We're out of candy, no trick-or-treating.
Matt: Up the hall, you watch as two humanoid figures with hoods are carrying each side of what looks like a chest or a crate that has handles. They just pass and then continue going.
Sam: (whispering) You've seen that? You've seen that? Those are the guys?
Jon: (whispering) Those are the guys.
Sam: (whispering) We should kill him. Let's go kill them.
Liam: (whispering) Can I murder one first?
Taliesin: (whispering) Yes.
Liam: (whispering) Thank you.
Laura: (whispering) Wait, I shoot--
Matt: You're still inside the mansion.
Liam: I thought she said the door was just barely open.
Matt: Yeah, but they're not walking by; you made the door way back in the tunnel. You see them up toward the T-juncture. So you guys would have to leave the mansion and get there quickly.
Laura: Shit. We sneak out. We sneak out and shoot them from behind.
Matt: All right, stealth check for those who are moving forward.
Sam: Maybe we should all go.
Liam: Now, wait a second.
Laura: If you feel like it, you can go. This is a team.
Travis: You Pass-Without-a-Traced us, right?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Those who are moving forward, stealth check?
Liam: 43.
Matt: Happy hundredth.
Marisha: 24.
Laura: 27.
Matt: Anybody else moving forward with them?
Taliesin: I'm a little bit behind them. 28.
Sam: Wait, are we all going?
Matt: Up to you guys. Whoever's going?
Sam: Did everyone else leave?
Jon: 20.
Sam: If he's going, I'm going.
Taliesin: I'm behind you guys.
Sam: Natural 20.
Liam: Twins are in the front.
Taliesin: Yeah, we're letting them go first.
Jon: Oh, I'm behind, but I'm going.
Matt: You do have advantage on your stealth checks because of your boots, Pike.
Marisha: Table right is hanging back behind the twins.
Ashley: 16.
Laura: Plus ten?
Ashley: Oh, 26!
Matt: All right, everyone got above 20.
Sam: Taryon's still asleep.
Laura: No!
Matt: Taryon is still asleep. Okay. All right, so. You carefully move forward. The twins, you, at full stealthing pace, make it up to the corner, and as you crest around the side, about 20, 25 feet up, you see the two humanoid figures with hoods that come to a underoff point that hangs to one side. Looks like a leathery or rubbery substance from the little bit of light that's coming through, it's hard to really tell. They're wearing long black cloth, like a tunic, and what looks to be dark leather or thick black cloth, pants and boots.
Laura: Pants and boots and pants.
Matt: Boots and pants and boots and pants. Not gloved hands, but they're both just carrying this chest along, they're just quietly moving along.
Laura: I bramble shot one of them.
Liam: (dagger throwing noise)
Matt: Okay, so, roll for your attack. On the one that's closest to you, or further?
Liam: On the left.
Matt: Well, they're both moving away from you.
Laura: Oh.
Liam: Oh.
Liam: Well, you're further.
Laura: I'll go for the further one.
Travis: Please both be old people. (laughter)
Laura: Should I roll two for attack?
Matt: Yeah, because they do not know you're there, so you have advantage.
Laura: Ooh.
Liam: 29.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: And this is assassinate, critical hit.
Matt: Yes it is, it's an auto crit.
Laura: So, Oh! I'm an assassin too!
Matt: Correct.
Laura: So I get an automatic?
Matt: Auto crit. If you're a level three, you do. So both you guys auto crit.
Laura: Sweet!! Ooh, so I double all my dice?
Matt: Yep, including the bramble shot.
Laura: Oh shit!
Taliesin: That's the end of both of them. It's going to be a cadaver and a fern.
Marisha: Oh, new chest. We could put our blankets in it.
Taliesin: I'm working on a quilt.
Marisha: I was going to say, the quilt from your grandmother.
Jon: This thing must be worth them dying for.
Laura: 66 on the first hit.
Matt: 66 damage?
Laura: For the arrow, yeah.
Liam: 78 on the first hit.
Laura: Oh wait, I didn't do my sneak attack damage! (cackling)
Jon: They can just obliterate anything?
Taliesin: Yeah, they're monsters.
Liam: And I use a bonus action for an offhand attack. And I got a critical on it. I rolled a 20.
Matt: You rolled a 20 on the second one? Okay. Roll damage on that.
Laura: 76 for the first hit.
Matt: Okay. In an instant-- don't worry about the second attack, critical damage. Both of them just go-- (footsteps) (thud) (laughter)
Ashley: What's in the box?
Travis: What's in the box?
Matt: You lift up the box--
Laura: We check it for traps.
Matt: Okay, investigation check.
Liam: Let's both check.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: Natural 20.
Matt: What the fuck? You guys tonight. Talk about the hundredth episode mojo here. Unless you're Grog. Sorry, buddy.
Travis: Fucking leave it in the past!
Matt: All righty, so. Who rolled investigation on that one?
Laura: He did.
Matt: What did you get?
Liam: 20.
Matt: 20. Natural, oh that's right, (blows raspberry) I'm stupid. Yeah, no, it is not trapped, it's not locked, it's just closed.
Liam: Spick and span.
Matt: Inside you see what looks like a polished stone of smooth jade that is affixed to a grey leather band that loops in the back. You see a scimitar, a very well-made scimitar, that has a series of pearlescent gems across the hilt, it has a very Marquesian flair to it. And you see what appears to be a rusty iron sphere that is about three inches in diameter and weighs about a pound. It has a bunch of really strange shapes and design, almost like it was made from condensed chains that were then melted down into a single sphere. It has a really rough texture on the outside.
Laura: We need to have Tary Identify it. Can we drag the box back to the mansion?
Matt: Yeah, you drag it back (dragging noises). I mean, the box has some food and blankets that are meant to keep it hidden, so you search through as you find them. Those are the only things of interest in the box, the rest of it just seems to be to fill the space.
Laura: Can we hide the bodies?
Matt: Sure. You guys drag the bodies back?
Laura: Yeah. And Dust of Tracelessness to hide where they were dragged.
Taliesin: I'm going to take their cloaks.
Travis: You want me to hide the bodies?
Laura: Yeah, Grog.
Travis: I put the bodies in the Bag of Holding. (laughter)
Matt: Okay. The opening is about that big, so it takes you a second, just like when you had to put Dork the Ox in there, it's like trying to fit a king-sized pillow in a twin-sized pillowcase.
Taliesin: I fully support it. Whatever you need to do to feel better, man.
Travis: I'm trying to get over these double ones, man, I'm working it out.
Taliesin: I'm curious about a couple things here.
Laura: Don't touch any of it, until we get Tary to look at it.
Marisha: While they drag the bodies back, Percy and I take the robes.
Taliesin: We're going to strip the cult members of their culty pants.
Matt: So, Percival and Keyleth are currently wearing--
Marisha: Can I study one of the guys' face, and take that for Alter Self?
Matt: Sure, easy enough. You also find that both of them have what looks like a dark iron symbol hanging around their neck, hidden beneath their robes. It resembles a four-pronged pitchfork that has a single rod beneath it that forms a loop.
Laura: Do you have a picture?
Matt: I'm going to sketch it for you.
Sam: Dickbutt.
Laura: I spilled coffee on my paper, and it looks like David Mack watercolor.
Marisha: Yeah, yeah, it's aged a little.
Liam: Mack spatter.
Sam: Hey, in the store tonight, we've got lots of--
Matt: It looks like that.
Taliesin: Angry happy face with a goatee.
Matt: Kind of, yeah. So you have the corpses both being stuffed into the Bag of Holding, you guys find the whatever symbols are hanging, and the robes are on you.
Laura: We go back to Tary.
Matt: You go back to Tary.
Sam: (as Tary) 34, 35. Other side, Doty. One.
Laura: Tary? We're in the mansion. Tary?
Sam: Hello? Yes? I'm not decent yet.
Laura: Tary. I've seen you naked.
Sam: Come in, come in. Hello.
Liam: Thank you. We have a box of crazy shit, will you look at it and tell us what we're looking at?
Sam: Of course.
Laura: What are you doing in here, why didn't you come down with us?
Sam: I'm doing my daily preparations. I had to pluck my eyebrows, I had to comb my hair. My unmentionables needed to be washed and--
Jon: Waxed?
Sam: Yes. I will identify these objects.
Matt: Easy enough to do as a ritual for each. The scimitar is a Scimitar of Speed.
Taliesin: I'm excited.
Sam: Oh, oh. I'm jacked in.
Laura: You can go, you can go, you've got 30 feet of jack.
Matt: All right, don't go so far. These are the other two items you've got.
Sam: Oh my god, there's so many items.
Laura: Whoa, go us!
Sam: What we have here is a Scimitar of Speed. You gain a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magical weapon. In addition, you can make one attack with it as a bonus action on each of your turns.
Laura: Shut up. Is it attunable? Do you have to attune it?
Taliesin: Yes, you do.
Sam: But maybe this guy can do it. We've also found the Third Eye of Awareness. A single polished stone of smooth jade is affixed to a grey leather band that loops in the back. The wearer gains advantage on initiative. (gasps)
Sam: Not attunable. (louder excited gasps)
Laura: We're in the room, we're in the room!
Liam: Tary, I am an assassin of the highest caliber.
Laura: Tary. I'm your best friend.
Sam: Oh. Little Elf Girl.
Laura: Oh wait, is it a necklace?
Sam: No, it's a leather band.
Matt: It's a headband.
Sam: Of course Vex gets this. All the times we've had together.
Jon: What are the other Eyes of Awareness? Have you guys come across the others? It says that's the third one.
Sam: The last item is called the Iron Bands of Bilarro. This rusty iron sphere measures three inches in diameter, and weighs one pound. Like my dick. (laughter)
Liam: It says that on the paper, Matt?
Matt: I didn't-- no-- I didn't-- Wait-- No.
Marisha: Wait, does that require attunement?
Sam: You can use an action to speak the command word and throw the sphere at a huge or smaller creature, like my dick, that you can see within 60 feet of you. As the sphere moves through the air, it opens into a tangle of metal bands, like my dick. Make a ranged attack roll with an attack bonus equal to your dex modifier plus your blah blah blah, if you hit it, the target is restrained until you take a bonus action to speak a command word and release it. Doing so, or missing, causes the bands to contract and become a sphere once more. So it's like a trap ball. Trap ball.
Matt: It's like, you know in Doctor Strange, that prison exoskeleton it threw on him? It's like that.
Sam: Once the band is used, it can't be used again until the next dawn, like my dick.
Laura: Tary, you've never been quite so obsessed with your dick before.
Sam: It's just that gnome, he's so weird and he rubs off on people, like my dick! Oh, I'm doing it again!
Laura: You're doing it! How are you? You've been hiding a lot!
Sam: Well, it seems like you guys are working through a thing, and I should really be getting back home, anyway. I don't know, I don't feel quite as needed any more.
Laura: Oh no!
Jon: You're not, I don't think.
Laura: You're not there!
Sam: How did he get in here?
Matt: You turn around and realize that Lionel has followed you into the room.
Jon: What else do I have to do?
Sam: After this is all done, I'll say my proper goodbyes. But I should be going. He's your best guy, right? You need him. He's part of the team, he always has been.
Laura: You're my best guy!
Sam: I love you both. I'm definitely poorer for having known you, though.
Laura: I mean, you were poorer without knowing us, you just didn't realize it.
Liam: I mean, poorer, but richer.
Sam: That's true.
Travis: Your family's actually poorer because of you.
Laura: This mansion disappears in 24 hours, so you can't just hide in here.
Sam: All right, I'll come outside. Doty, get my armor ready. Spritz it!
Matt: "Tary." Doty pulls an arm up, and you can see one of the slight changes that they had made in his construction is a slight mister on the other hand that goes (water spraying).
Travis: For your face or for your armor?
Sam: His armor!
Travis: Oh my god!
Matt: Depends how hot the day is.
Liam: Freddie! Where's Fred?
Laura: I feel like Percy would like this a lot. We found something that you might enjoy.
Liam: What's this?
Taliesin: Scimitar of Speed.
Liam: Well, I think you might like this thing. You could come up with very creative solutions with that.
Taliesin: This could go-- (interested noises) Yes. Yes, I think I could do something with this.
Sam: Let's go kill some shit, shall we? Come on!
Taliesin: I've even got a codeword for it!
Sam: Codeword?
Marisha: There's a codeword?
Taliesin: You have to speak a word to make it work.
Matt: A command word, yeah.
Taliesin: Can I program the word? I've programmed it. Perfect.
Laura: I put this on.
Matt: Okay, you put that on. All right. Who is going where? What are you doing?
Liam: Wait, hold on. Would you like this, either of you? It's not my bag.
Ashley: Gain a plus two bonus to attack... It's a weapon.
Matt: All right, so what's the plan, guys? What are you doing?
Liam: We should go.
Laura: We should go attack things.
Travis: Campfire!
Liam: Well, let's go quietly, you and I, take point.
Laura: And head deeper in, see where the people have been.
Liam: Twins are in the lead.
Matt: New stealth checks from you guys since you've had combat.
Laura: Still have Pass Without a Trace going.
Taliesin: Everybody roll who's walking.
Matt: Sam, are you bringing Scanlan?
Laura: Natural 20!
Matt: So, across the board.
Travis: What are we rolling?
Matt: Stealth.
Travis: Oh, I did that already. 23.
Ashley: 35!
Laura: Natural 20.
Liam: I rolled a two, so it's a 27.
Matt: Reliable Talent, man, it's awesome.
Marisha: 29.
Taliesin: 23.
Jon: 19.
Matt: Plus ten.
Jon: Yeah, that was with ten.
Sam: 20, 23, 23.
Matt: Okay!
Ashley: Question!
Sam: Scanlan, Taryon, Doty. I tried to leave them behind, guys!
Laura: But he's in a mansion, he'll just pop out and then he'll be sitting in a tunnel by himself!
Travis: You opened this hole, man, you gotta pay for it!
Liam: Yeah, you've got to juggle these balls.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: Sorry, Matt. What do we do? He's going to kill him! He's going to kill one of them! What should we do?
Sam: Let's go!
Matt: You move further into the tunnel.
Liam: Twins in the lead, point, traps. All that.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Searching, keeping an eye out for any other people as well.
Matt: All right, it's only 80 feet until the winding tunnel opens up slightly. So, make another investigation check partway up, about halfway to that period.
Laura: God damn it.
Liam: 18.
Matt: Okay. You make your way there. And you begin to push towards the entranceway. The soft dust on the ground, which is the same color as the rest of the stonework. Vax, you step onto one section that seems to step in a little further than the others, and you feel a (click).
Liam: Nobody move. Don't move.
Matt: I need you and Vex, and who was following them?
Sam: Everybody.
Matt: I need everybody to make a constitution saving throw.
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: Saving throws are up there.
Liam: Sam. I'm using my first Luck of the new day. Okay?
Sam: Great. That's the third one, then?
Liam: The first one of the day.
Taliesin: Oh, I can reroll a saving throw.
Matt: All right. Grog?
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17. You take 36 points of necrotic damage. Pike?
Ashley: Five.
Matt: 36 points of necrotic damage.
Liam: Constitution saving throw?
Matt: Yep. Vex?
Laura: 16?
Matt: 36 points of necrotic damage.
Liam: 18, but armor after those faces, is set to necrotic damage.
Matt: Right, because you never un-set it from that. Okay. All right, I'll let you do that. All right, so instead of 36, that's 18.
Liam: I rolled an 18.
Matt: You did not succeed on the saving throw, but you halved it.
Marisha: 20 total?
Matt: 20 total? You take 16 points of necrotic damage. You make it.
Taliesin: Out of curiosity, is this a magic saving throw?
Matt: Against a spell effect? Yes.
Taliesin: Then I don't even have to use a resolve. 19.
Matt: 19 does not succeed. You take 36 points of necrotic damage.
Jon: 16.
Matt: 36 points of necrotic damage.
Taliesin: We don't have the bonus hit points, either, do we?
Matt: Nope.
Taliesin: Okay.
Sam: Scanlan, 26.
Matt: Takes 16 points of necrotic damage.
Sam: Is it 18 points?
Matt: Yes, 18.
Sam: Taryon, 26.
Matt: Wow. 18 points of necrotic damage.
Sam: Doty, one.
Matt: Doty takes 36 points of necrotic damage. All righty. You watch as you pull back and the sand sifts in and you see another face below, with a burst of dark energy that echoes out in a 60-foot radius. Fills the hallway with this high-pitched shrieking sound. As it hits all of you and the breath escapes you for a second, this circle of death-like sphere passes all of you, and you hear the shriek echo through both sides of the hallway.
Laura: Well, if anything's going to bring more skeletons, it's that.
Liam: Clicking my boots.
Taliesin: I'm going to burn my quick heal. Might as well.
Matt: What are you guys doing? Pushing forward, staying where you are?
Laura: Should you heal us before we pop into anything more? Can you heal us?
Ashley: Yeah. I can heal us.
Laura: That was a lot.
Ashley: That was a lot.
Liam: I'm doing this.
Matt: Perception check.
Ashley: I'll cast Mass Cure Wounds.
Travis: Pike's doing this.
Matt: Mass Cure Wounds. How much does that heal everybody?
Ashley: 3d8 plus spellcasting ability modifier.
Matt: So whatever you roll plus five.
Liam: 31 perception.
Matt: Okay. You listen out, and you hear what sounds like low voices, things shifting, a slight general humming sound. The bright light that was there before is not there at the moment. You still see the fire.
Liam: Does it sound like anything I've ever heard before?
Matt: Make an intelligence check.
Ashley: Everybody heals an extra 18 hit points.
Liam: Natural 20.
Matt: Natural 20. You do remember it. The low hum that temporarily appears was very close to the sound whenever anybody was throwing something into the dark sphere above the ziggurat.
Liam: I was wondering. All right.
Sam: You said 18?
Ashley: 18 points, yeah.
Jon: They've heard that before.
Matt: Apparently. A different one.
Marisha: No one's rolled initiative. No one knows we're here yet.
Matt: Not yet. You haven't thrown into combat yet. You guys just hit a trap and heard things ahead.
Marisha: If you can wait 60 seconds, I can make us an elemental.
Taliesin: Will the magic fade if we get too close to the ziggurat, though?
Laura: Maybe we'll have to fight things outside of the ziggurat.
Marisha: That's a good question. I have a mild confession, and maybe I should have said this a little earlier, but I'm going to say it now. One night, I might have sneaked down into the middle of the ziggurat, and I stuck my hand in it.
Laura: What the fuck?
Sam: Why would you do that, and what happened?
Marisha: Well, I wanted to find out what would happen, and I found out it's real bad. It's really bad, is what I found out, and it nearly crushed my hand to a point of oblivion and I think I got really lucky, so I think it just crushes anything that it tries to suck in.
Laura: But it's a doorway. I shot an arrow through it.
Marisha: It is. I think your arrow happened to be tiny and fast.
Taliesin: Well.
Liam: Those 60 seconds have passed.
Taliesin: Let's go.
Matt: You were talking instead of casting a spell. Do you want to take another minute to cast a spell?
Travis: Thanks for the confession, though.
Matt: All right, so what are you guys doing?
Laura: Moving forward. Keeping an eye out for those--
Marisha: That's all I mean. Don't jump in.
Liam: Do you want to go elemental?
Laura: No, she wanted to summon an elemental.
Marisha: I wanted to summon an elemental.
Matt: You guys rush forward, and a hot wind is picking up through the tunnel. You're not quite sure directionally where it's coming from. But as you move forward and through the winding passage, maybe 60 feet ahead as it opens up, you see it splits into two different pathways of natural interior rock formations, and you can see a larger chamber beyond that. You have the right and left.
Laura: I pop Trinket out.
Matt: Okay. Trinket pops out of your necklace. What are you guys doing?
Laura: Can I hear the noise of the ziggurat coming from either side more?
Matt: You hear it coming from both sides.
Travis: Let's split up.
Laura: What about wind or anything?
Matt: There's the general wind in the room, but it's (whoosh) whipping around you, picking up sand and dust from the ground.
Laura: Do we see faces on either side?
Matt: Perception check.
Liam: I'll have a look, as well.
Laura: 28.
Liam: 24.
Matt: Okay. You do not see any faces immediately within the two paths that are ahead of you. However, as you glance past one of the edges, within the chamber, you can see the sources of some of that flickering firelight. You see two clay bowls, large clay bowls that are set in the ground that have burning materials inside. Wood, cloth. Who knows what, but they're burning this bright orange-red flame. Not a natural yellow flame. A deep orange-red flame. It's causing this glow to emanate around the room, and you see the flames flickering and moving with the wind that's blowing about.
Travis: Safe to assume this goes to the same room, yeah? Just two different entrances?
Laura: Maybe.
Travis: So let's flank.
Laura: I feel like there's traps.
Marisha: I go with Percy, since we have the robes over top of us.
Matt: All right. Who's going left and right?
Travis: I'm going right.
Jon: I'll go left.
Ashley: I'm going right.
Matt: Left?
Liam: I'll roll with Percy and Keyleth.
Matt: Percy and Keyleth with Vax. Grog on the right. Who else is on the right?
Laura: I'll go right.
Matt: Vex is right. Pike? Right or left?
Ashley: Yeah, right.
Matt: Trinket's with you.
Sam: All my people to the right.
Matt: All righty. Indeed, what looked like two different hallways was one entrance to the chamber that was divided by a singular column in the center. You both flank around as it opens up inside. You see a 50-foot-tall, 70-foot-wide natural cavern chamber that rounds out over the top, and you see it end on the opposite side. There are two pillars nearer to your end that both hold defaced statues of a woman on each. Defaced statues of a woman. Partially destroyed and collapsed. There are elements of it broken on the ground. The heads removed. In the center of the chamber, you see before you a massive stone-stepped pyramid, similar to the ziggurat you've found. The design is a little different, and you get the sense that a lot of it is still buried and it's just the top that has been uncovered and repurposed for whatever this may be. You do see, there are a number of cloaked figures scattered across these steps, and some of them are out looking in your direction as soon as you come around the side. They're all wearing the same black outfits, the cloaks. Some of them have the hoods back; some of them have the hoods on. Roughly, you have what looks to be six or seven from what you can view. There are two of them at the very top that currently have what looks like another crate that has been opened, and there above them, you can see the black orb, exactly like the one you have underneath Whitestone, and they're in the process of taking objects out and throwing them up into the sphere, and you watch as they flash and vanish into the darkness. You see one cloaked figure that's currently shouting out and giving commands right now.
Laura: Do they see us?
Matt: With all of your stealth? You got a 19, correct? One of them shouts out, "We have visitors!"
Laura: Do they only see that side? Do they see us come around the other side of the pillar? They see all of us.
Matt: As soon as they all glance over, you guys are out in the open of a hallway. Once they see him, they see the spread of you. As this happens, you watch as a number of skeletons walk out from the halls on the sides, and one seems to suddenly shake and rise up from the ground: a large skeleton with what looks like giant horns that curve out of the head, standing about 12 feet tall. Looks to be some sort of minotaur-like beast, but bone and anger.
Laura: How far away is the ziggurat?
Matt: The ziggurat from you guys? Let's pull out a map. (cheering)
Ashley: Do you need help?
Matt: I may be able to get this here.
Laura: It's such a big map.
Matt: It's a big one. Actually, Travis, do you want to help me with this real fast?
Jon: This time, it's big.
Matt: We're working out the kinks here, guys. Thank you very much.
Sam: Guys. So many great things available in the store tonight. Those posters? The Scanlan thing. Oh shit.
Liam: Combat. Here we go! This is the real deal.
Laura: Wait, we didn't do this last time, did we?
Jon: If I hadn't sneezed, you guys, we never would have seen this.
Taliesin: They would all be dead right now. We would have taken them all out in one clean kill.
Jon: We would have quietly (blow gun sounds).
Sam: An overhead cam? An out-of-focus overhead cam?
Jon: This is the place, guys.
Laura: Wait, so it's reversed?
Sam: Matt only has to manage 22 individual characters right now.
Matt: No, it's great, guys. I love it; it's wonderful.
Laura: So when we tell you which direction we want to go, Matt, it's from your perspective.
Matt: Well, do the best you can to see.
Travis: The map's right.
Taliesin: Towards and away from the ziggurat, and the ziggurat's 12:00 and we're 6:00.
Sam: We'll just say leeward and windward. Starboard.
Matt: Okay, so. There is a singular figure standing up here that seems to be giving orders and shouting it out to the side. Female voice rings out across the center of the chamber and says, "Remnants, slay the intruders and grant their bodies to the cause!"
Laura: Can I see whose voice that was?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: That was crazy. 27.
Matt: 27. It's hard to see. She's in the dark right there and the sphere doesn't give a lot of light, but the voice sounds familiar.
Sam: Familiar?
Laura: Familiar?
Matt: All right, so at this point the woman pulls an amulet. The woman pulls an amulet out from beneath the robe, and as she clutches it in her hand, the orb shifts from black to white, to a white-gray color, and you watch as the wind (whoosh) gets whipped up even heavier and lights up the area around the space. You watch as the cloaked hood flows back, and for a brief moment, before the grin crawls across her face, you see the face of Delilah Briarwood. (gasps)
Sam: We killed her! She's dead!
Laura: No!
Travis: Look at Percy.
Sam: She's dead. She died. We killed her!
Ashley: Oh no.
Matt: Yet there she is at the top of the ziggurat.
Laura: How?!
Sam: This is like a soap opera!
Laura: Dun dun dun!
Travis: I broke the world for you returns!
Matt: I would like you all to roll initiative.
Travis: (laughs) What?
Laura: I know.
Ashley: This looks like a crazy fight.
Marisha: Natural 20.
Matt: Nice.
Marisha: If only it was for something a little more important, but it's fine.
Taliesin: You get to go first.
Matt: So 25 to 20?
Taliesin: 20.
Sam: 20 for Scanlan.
Matt: What was it?
Marisha: 22, tied with Scanlan.
Sam: No, mine's just 20.
Matt: All right, so Percy.
Taliesin: Percy and Scanlan are tied.
Matt: Scanlan. Okay. All right.
Sam: Wait, does Doty roll? I forget. No, he just goes when Taryon does.
Matt: Yeah, I'm letting him go with Taryon. It's easier to check that. All right, 20 to 15?
Travis: 17.
Sam: Taryon's 16.
Liam: 15.
Matt: All right, so we have Grog. You got, what did you say? 17? Vax, what did you say?
Travis: 15.
Matt: Oh, 15 and you said 17 for Taryon?
Sam: 16 for Taryon.
Matt: All right.
Laura: 14.
Matt: 14.
Sam: What did you get?
Jon: 17.
Sam: He got 17. Did he tell you?
Matt: Oh, he didn't tell me that. Sorry about that.
Ashley: Okay. So many things on the board. I wonder if those statues are going to come to life.
Matt: All righty. So who else is left. Pike?
Ashley: Seven! She's so good at initiative rolling.
Matt: All right, so at the beginning of this initiation, with the orb now flaring this pale gray-white and Delilah Briarwood standing there at the top of the ziggurat, staring down and focusing on the group of intruders that have just rushed in. Keyleth, it's your turn.
Marisha: Oh god. Okay. I am going to, under the cult hood that I have, transform my face with Alter Self into Sylas Briarwood.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Her husband. Her dead husband. I'm going to have his face, and I'm going to walk forward and say, Delilah. Don't. It is me.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Marisha: Deception?
Matt: So as you step forward into the chamber.
Marisha: This is not good.
Liam: Sunshine, roll high.
Marisha: I'm not good at this shit. Oh, that's not bad! 14? That's it. 14. That's all I got. 14 is good for me.
Taliesin: It's dark.
Matt: Okay, so that's your action. As you say this to Delilah, her eyes flash over to you, and her face goes--
Sam: She's mad.
Laura: So pissed!
Matt: You have your movement and your bonus, still.
Marisha: Movement and a bonus? (sighs)
Liam: Feeblemind on the dragon.
Marisha: I am going to take my bonus to ignite my form into a fire elemental and rush towards the closest thing to me.
Matt: Okay, there are two skeletons to your right and left. You're turning into a fire elemental.
Marisha: Yeah. I don't know. Where are we?
Matt: There you go, Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay, I have a 50-foot movement. I want to hit as many skeletons as I can by running through them and catching them on fire.
Matt: Okay, so with that, you can do (counting). You can probably get this whole cluster here. All righty. They all catch fire as you rush through. You do get attacks of opportunity on you as you rush by. That is 15?
Marisha: What am I against?
Matt: What's your AC for your fire elemental?
Marisha: Hit.
Matt: All right, so that's 11 points of slashing damage, reduced to half because you take half damage, right?
Marisha: Yep. So five.
Matt: That's a 13?
Marisha: Miss. No, hit. Armor class is 13.
Matt: Another five points of slashing damage. Ten?
Marisha: Miss.
Matt: Eight.
Marisha: Miss.
Matt: Okay. That one and that one. That is a 15 from the minotaur skeleton.
Marisha: Hit.
Matt: You take 17 points of slashing damage, reduced to eight. And the last one is a natural 20, so you take 22 points of slashing damage, reduced to 11. And they are all set aflame. All of them take, I believe, fire damage from impacting you?
Marisha: Yep.
Matt: So we'll say eight damage across the board for all of them. All of them get hit with fire as they swipe out at you, including the giant minotaur that swings over you with this large greataxe in its hands and bursts into flames as it does so. Awesome. All right, that ends your turn, Keyleth. Delilah, who's currently glaring at Keyleth and the rest of you, looks out and goes, "Of course it would be you, wouldn't it?" She takes a step back. Without breaking eye contact, goes, "Finish your work." (foreign words) And slams her hand down on the ground, and you watch as this sphere of rainbow color completely encompasses around the top of the ziggurat. You now see this large orb, this dome of multicolored rainbows that flickers for a second, and then briefly becomes a singular color.
Laura: It's a giant--
Matt: You see it is a giant Prismatic Sphere around. The color you see now as it flickers for a minute becomes stark red, just deep ruby red.
Jon: It's so pretty. Look at it, you guys.
Liam: Taste the rainbow.
Travis: These people kill ducks, Lionel.
Jon: (gasps) Kill them all!
Matt: Percival, Scanlan. What are you guys doing?
Taliesin: Scanlan, you first. My plan just went up the rainbow.
Sam: All right. I'll step forward and I will-- is Vax or Vex near me? Vex is near me, right?
Matt: Vex is near you, yeah.
Sam: I will inspire Vex. I will sing to her. I will sing, (singing) you don't need anybody else. When I stand beside you, I touch you, elf. Whoa. (laughter)
Sam: Something creepy.
Laura: Working your way back up.
Sam: And then I'll cast Reverse Gravity on everybody. Everybody in there. All their shit.
Matt: All righty! What's the radius on that? My templates are still back on the shelf. Can someone grab my templates real fast? That would be awesome.
Sam: 50 feet.
Matt: 50-foot radius?
Sam: 50 feet radius.
Matt: Oh, that's going to get everybody in there, including probably Keyleth.
Marisha: I can take it. I'm into this.
Matt: You can fly, though, right?
Marisha: I can fire hover?
Taliesin: I have sticky feet right now, so I ain't going nowhere.
Matt: Reverse Gravity, perfect. Dexterity save across the board. What's the spell DC with the hand cone?
Sam: 22.
Taliesin: Fuck their shit up!
Sam: Does it affect people in the dome?
Matt: You don't know.
Taliesin: We'll hear a thunk, won't we?
Matt: You see over here, a number of other robed figures and one that looks like it's heavily armored in the front, as well. A couple of small other cultists down on the sides, but they all-- apparently. Okay, the armored one actually manages to grab the stonework and hold on.
Sam: Oh boy, Matt's hating this.
Matt: Everyone else, except for that one armored guard, rises up and (wham) slams into the ceiling 50 feet up. That is 5d10 points of damage. 5d6, sorry. Thank you very much. Perfect.
Marisha: Is that including me, or no?
Matt: That would be including you.
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: Let me just reiterate, we always appreciated Scanlan.
Sam: I just need to hear it more, guys.
Matt: 20 points of bludgeoning damage, which completely destroys these skeletons that were damaged earlier from the fire.
Liam: So long, pawns.
Matt: All right. Are you maintaining it, or letting them fall?
Sam: Maintain!
Matt: All righty, so everyone else is held in the air right now against the ceiling.
Sam: The people inside the dome? No.
Matt: Seem to be unaffected.
Sam: Oh, that ziggurat.
Laura: Anti-magic dome.
Sam: I'll move a little closer in.
Matt: So over here next to Pike?
Sam: Done. Percival.
Matt: That ends Scanlan's turn. Percy, what are you doing?
Taliesin: I'm going to pull out Bad News. Actually, let's pull out Animus. This will be funnier if I'm walking around that way, which is always a fun thing to say. There's that one guy holding on, right?
Matt: There's one guy holding on, yeah.
Taliesin: There's one guy holding on. I'm going to use my gun to make him drop an object of my choosing. And that object is going to be the pyramid. So just remembering how to do this.
Matt: Roll for an attack.
Taliesin: Roll for an attack. That's 29?
Matt: That will hit. All right, he has to make a strength saving throw?
Taliesin: Strength saving throw against 20.
Matt: Nope, five plus five. That is a no, so he goes (whoosh) and slams into the ceiling, as well, taking-- ooh, that is 22 points of bludgeoning damage.
Marisha: Can Keyleth clothesline him on the way up as a fire elemental?
Matt: Sure. Close enough. You swoosh over there; it's fine. More of a flavor element. So all the visible creatures you can see right now are held against the ceiling.
Taliesin: Okay, is he still alive? I don't suppose I have advantage to hit anything that's pinned to the ceiling.
Matt: I'm going to say for the purposes of falling up, a lot of them are prone, so you would actually have disadvantage.
Taliesin: So weird. I'll take it. I hit the wrong thing. There we are. I'll burn another point for advantage and shoot him again. Just with a straight roll. That's 19.
Matt: That hits. Same armored guy?
Taliesin: Same guy. That's nine points of damage, plus three points of psychic damage.
Matt: Okay. All right?
Taliesin: And I'll hit him again. Same thing. Hit him again. This time I'm going to take a bonus for a Hex on him, too, for extra fun. That's 27.
Matt: Yeah, that hits.
Taliesin: So that's not bad. That's 17 points of damage, plus three points of psychic damage and five points of necrotic damage.
Matt: Nice! You're just firing up at this figure. The one shot sends it flying up into the ceiling, and I'd say even before it impacts, as it's still floating up in the air, you shoot it once while it's still falling upward, and then it slams into the ceiling and you get one final shot to hit it while it's there. (grunts) Across the top. It's hard to see if it's really that hurt, but it's currently a little wounded.
Taliesin: Yeah, and he's got disadvantage on dexterity checks for now, because that's funny.
Matt: Are you going to move, Percival, or are you going to stay where you are?
Taliesin: I'm slowly going to make my way towards the ziggurat, so I'm going to be actually walking up on the wall. So you can put me up on the little creases. Yeah, I'm walking sideways, as gravity's reversed right now. I'll make my way, as far as I can get, towards the sphere.
Matt: Okay, and that radius, by the way, is maintained as long as you concentrate on that. So anybody who walks into that radius will have to make a dex save or be flung up into that. So! That being the case, ending Scanlan's turn and Percy's turn, the cultists that are currently flung to the ceiling are going to get up and run this way, so they're technically up on the ceiling right now. Those two are going to continue their work. You don't see what's in there. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Is it me and Chad?
Matt: Let's see here. Actually, no. I disagree. They actually can take an action this turn from that distance. So I need Grog and Pike to both make wisdom saving throws.
Laura: Are you both wise?
Ashley: I have gnome cunning, so I have advantage on wisdom.
Travis: 14.
Matt: 14.
Ashley: What did you say it was, wisdom? 20?
Laura: Roll your advantage. You get advantage.
Ashley: Maybe I don't need it?
Laura: Try it. Maybe you'll roll a natural 20.
Matt: Advantage for which one?
Ashley: I have gnome cunning. I have advantage on wisdom, intelligence, charisma saving throws.
Matt: Just in general?
Ashley: I guess so.
Matt: Against magic, I think it was? So yeah, both of you guys shrug off the effect. You feel the magic try to take hold over the inside of your brain and your muscles seize up and you manage to shrug it off. It's a familiar feeling. It is one that you're familiar with, as well, Pike. It is a Hold Person attempt on both of you.
Ashley: I know what you did. I know what you were trying to do!
Matt: All right, that ends their turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Okay, where does that sphere of vertical influence start?
Matt: You're not entirely certain, Grog.
Travis: Awesome. I'm going to go into a rage and haul ass along this wall.
Matt: Okay, as you rush into this wall here, I need you to make a dexterity saving throw.
Travis: I have advantage on those. 14.
Matt: Grog, you start running and then (yelps) go flying up into the ceiling.
Sam: Oh shit, it affects the area?
Travis: (screams)
Matt: You take 17 points of bludgeoning.
Travis: I raged at the beginning.
Matt: So half that. You're now locked on the ceiling, as well. However, that does put you in melee range, and prone, with one of the cultists on the ceiling.
Travis: Totally meant to do that. I'll attack.
Matt: You're upside-down on the ceiling. The guy who cast a spell and it didn't work on you watched you tumble up, land, get up, and stare him down in his face.
Travis: Hi.
Matt: His hood falls off. You see a guy who's staring at you now with one eye plucked out of its socket.
Travis: Might as well make a matching one. Reckless! Natural 20. (cheering)
Matt: Roll some damage.
Travis: So I rolled a ten. Two more of these, seven. 31, 11, 42.
Matt: Okay. You smile at him, bring the axe back, and you completely-- we're talking tree trunk. He slides over and his body attaches to the ceiling and collapses against that, blood splattering out from his midsection. It seems really gross, in a sense. You still have at half movement, about 20 feet to run across.
Travis: Yeah, I'll keep trying to come to this wall.
Matt: This wall? Okay. That's about as far as you get, but you don't have range with your axe.
Travis: That's my turn.
Matt: Okay. Finishes Grog's turn. Lionel. You're over here, currently.
Jon: I move forward and I jump into the radius so I can float up, too. And as I'm flying, I say, I'll save you, Grog!
Travis: Come on, buddy!
Matt: Do you go into a rage first? It will reduce your impact damage as you land.
Jon: Wait, what?
Taliesin: You take less damage.
Matt: If you want to be raging first, you'll take less damage from the impact.
Jon: Yeah, you know what? Let's rage.
Matt: Okay. You joyfully leap into the sky.
Jon: It's the duck rage.
Matt: You take 16, reduced to half, so you take eight points of bludgeoning damage as you slam into the ground at the top, and you stand up and there's about five feet between you and Grog, and one of the cultists is there right in front of you, who's like, "Shit!"
Jon: I rage.
Matt: Do you want to attack him? Go for it.
Jon: I think the anti-gravity is screwing me up. Three, plus 12.
Matt: Three plus 12 still hits, actually.
Jon: He does it clumsily.
Matt: Your first strike is 2d6 plus ten damage.
Jon: Seven. 17.
Matt: 17 points of slashing damage as you pull your greataxe up and rake past. You see his chest split open and he (grunts) pulls back. He's still alive, and as he looks up at you from under the hood, he is also missing one of his eyes. (pants)
Jon: Second attack? Rage, bonus action...
Matt: You have an extra attack as a barbarian, so you get a second attack.
Jon: Okay.
Taliesin: d20.
Jon: Do the same thing.
Taliesin: Natural 20! Now roll 4d6.
Matt: Roll 4d6.
Travis: Stop touching him!
Taliesin: He's so plush, though. It's really nice. Whoa! Does he get to reroll ones?
Sam: Oh, that's a one.
Taliesin: Does he get to reroll a one?
Matt: He does, because of his great weapon fighting, yeah.
Taliesin: Reroll it. Better.
Jon: So it's 17. Plus ten. 27.
Matt: Okay. The first strike cuts him across the chest. (pants) Rears back. Oh, that wasn't enough, and with a second half-assed swipe, he goes down and spills out all across the ceiling. That cultist is done. All righty, that finishes your turn. Taryon.
Sam: Doty, stay here. I'll jump on the broom. I cast Fly on-- no, I don't have to cast Fly. I'm on a broom!
Laura: It's hard to keep track of three characters.
Sam: Well, Matt does it all the time.
Taliesin: The walls are tall enough that you can put that above people and it won't be a problem.
Matt: Possibly. We'll find out. Where are you going, Tary?
Sam: I'm going to fly straight in to the steps.
Matt: All right, so you're doing a dash? Or just your movement?
Sam: Can I get there in one fly?
Matt: What's the speed of the broom?
Sam: It's 40, right?
Matt: You can get there. That's as close as you can get with one movement.
Taliesin: You're close, though. You can throw something at it.
Sam: I can't get all the way there, so I'll cast something. Shit. It's a prismatic thing, right?
Matt: Right now you have this ruby, bright-red dome that's glowing with light right now.
Sam: Would a Prismatic Spray beat a Prismatic Spray? Probably not, right?
Matt: I don't know. What do you think?
Sam: Shit. I'm not going to risk it. I'm going to point straight up. Is there anyone right above me?
Matt: Yes, actually. These guys here are on the ceiling right now. Anything you see there are on the ceiling, currently.
Sam: And I'm up a bit, so I could throw something at them? I guess drop it. I'll drop a thing of fire up there. Alchemic fire. A little pot.
Matt: At which one?
Sam: Can I get two of them? It has a five-foot radius.
Matt: Yes, you can hit these two.
Sam: Great. I'll go for both of them.
Matt: All right, so the skeleton and guy get to make... what's the DC?
Sam: 17.
Matt: 17? Unfortunately, the cultist makes it. Skeleton does not. So the cultist dodges out of the way on the ceiling. It smashes on the ground by the skeleton and bursts into flames. How much damage does it deal to the skeleton?
Sam: I'm 15th level or 16th level?
Matt: 15th.
Sam: Okay. 5d6.
Matt: 5d6 fire damage to the skeleton.
Sam: 16.
Matt: 16 points of fire damage? That skeleton, fire consumes it. It's still currently standing, and now the flames are licking through its ribcage. That ends your turn?
Sam: I will, as a bonus action, cast Sanctuary. Am I within 30 feet of any of my friends?
Matt: Right now? Nope.
Sam: On myself.
Matt: All righty. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Boots on, poof go the wings. I have two actions left. It's really hard to see. How far am I from skeletal minotaur?
Matt: Right there? You're approximately 40 feet. 45.
Liam: And nowhere on the board are any of my allies within melee combat range of any enemy.
Matt: Nope! Anyone that was killed whatever they were fighting.
Liam: That's what I figured. Okay, so I'm going to use my two remaining actions to throw daggers at minotaur skeleton.
Matt: From where you are? From where you're standing?
Liam: I'm 40 feet away. I'm in range.
Matt: Yeah, and you have sharpshooter.
Liam: I didn't say it on the first.
Matt: You have sharpshooter, right? Sharpshooter feat.
Liam: I have it if I choose it, but I don't want to choose it.
Matt: Right, I'm asking because that ignores cover.
Liam: I have sharpshooter. Right, so I ignore three-quarters cover. So the first one is a 19?
Matt: Hits.
Liam: Good, and the second one-- oh, that hits, for sure. That's a 16... 28. Okay, so for the first one, I'm going to unload some Smite into this motherfucker because I know he's undead. That is three, plus eight is 11, plus psychic damage is 17, plus 3d8 because he's undead. So 17 plus eight is 25, 29, 36 for the first attack.
Matt: 36 damage. As you fling the dagger out, it seems to skid across the stone of the pillar in front of it, leaving these bright white sparks as it hits. Comes through and strikes through the chest. As it does, a burst of divine energy. You watch as some of the ribs shatter and scatter across the stonework. (roars)
Liam: Fucking feathers, buddy. And then the second one is four, plus the Smite, and I get four plus eight is 12, 15, 22.
Matt: 22.
Liam: Wait, I can only smite once per round?
Matt: You can smite. I believe so. I think it's whenever you expend a spell slot, so I don't think there's a limitation per round. That's part of what makes paladins so crazy at the higher levels, actually. But just to make sure of that or the internet's going to hate me. No, there's no limitation on that. So 22?
Liam: I'm also going to use my movement. Is there enough room to fly safely over big skeleton?
Matt: Yeah, it's about 12 feet tall, so as long as you get 20 feet over it, you can.
Liam: Then I want to get into the back corner closest to Liam, on the map.
Matt: Over here?
Liam: Yeah. 120 feet of movement.
Matt: Over here, you mean.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: All right, you're over here in this area.
Liam: As far back from the enemies as I can be. That's good. Done.
Matt: All right, that ends your turn. Vex.
Laura: Has anybody tried shooting anything through the orb?
Matt: Not yet, no.
Laura: Okay. Well, I'm going to try Hunter's Marking Delilah.
Matt: You have no sight on her.
Laura: I don't?
Matt: No. All you see is a sphere of red. It blocks everything. All sight is obscured with light. It's very bright; the whole room is lit up. You almost have to squint a little, looking at it.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to try to shoot an arrow, then, at where I remember her being.
Matt: Okay, go for it. Roll an attack.
Laura: Because it's red. Natural 20!
Matt: Awesome. The arrow shatters. No effect.
Laura: Oh, what a waste. Because it was red. Motherfuck. Okay, then I'm going to Hunter's Mark that big guy and I'm going to shoot him with a flaming bowstring.
Liam: Y'all motherfuckers need Sarenrae.
Laura: Are you fucking kidding me?
Liam: Well, you got a 20 on the last one.
Laura: Yeah, when it didn't fucking count!
Liam: Well, we've all got to eat a little humble pie every once in a while. Even you.
Laura: You motherfuck. Don't rub it in my face when I just rolled a one.
Matt: Anything you want to do with Trinket? Movement?
Laura: No, he has to wait because he's going to get hit. He's going to get bludgeoned.
Matt: Okay, ends Vex's turn. Skeletons are now going to go.
Laura: I am going to move back into the little corner that's next to me.
Matt: Right here.
Laura: Yeah, and Trinket will follow me in there.
Matt: Perfect. The skeletons get up and start rushing in towards the nearest things. This one's going to rush towards Grog. This one's going to rush towards Keyleth there. This one's also going to rush towards Keyleth. The minotaur, who got impacted angrily, sees you dart past. Turns around. You're not within range, so it's going to move up towards (heavy footsteps). This knight is also going to move in towards Keyleth. These guys up at the top are going to focus in that way. All right, first, the minotaur swings with its axe. Makes a giant swing towards you, Lionel. Actually, no. What it's going to do is it's going to rush up, instead, put its head down, and charge forward towards you with its horns in front. It's attempting to strike you with its horns. That's 18 to hit. What's your armor class?
Jon: It is 18.
Matt: 18, okay, so that just barely hits. You suffer 13 plus nine. You take 21 points of piercing damage, reduced to half, so it's ten, because you're raging. I need you to make a strength saving throw.
Jon: So mine's plus ten. That's with this dice, right?
Matt: Yes. Roll that, plus ten.
Jon: 23.
Matt: 23, yeah. You're not pushed. You get the impact and the horns come to your chest and you're like, "ooh, that hurt," but this giant creature's stopped in its tracks. Its hooves are scraping into the ground, and you're immovable. That's the end of its turn. Skeleton attacks on Keyleth. That's 18?
Marisha: Hits.
Matt: 13?
Marisha: Hits. 13 is my armor class.
Matt: All right, you take 22 points of slashing damage, reduced to 11, from the two attacks.
Marisha: 11, so I'm at 52.
Matt: And all right.
Taliesin: Dungeons and Dragons. Yeah.
Matt: The blackguard is going to make three attacks with this giant glaive that it has. Now you've got up close, you can see this jagged black armor. He's going to rush up with his glaive and spins. All three attacks on you. That is 23? 18? And 16. All righty, so you take nine, plus Thunderous Smite damage. That's going to be 21 points of damage. Sorry, it's going to be nine points of slashing, which is reduced to four, and then you take an additional 15 points of thunder damage.
Marisha: So 19 points total?
Matt: Correct. Mark that off.
Taliesin: No, it's the big motherfucker. The minotaur.
Liam: Wait, smite?
Matt: The second strike is going to hit you again. He's going to burn another slot for another smite. On the second one, you take another four points of slashing damage, plus 13 points of radiant damage to you. This would be necrotic damage.
Travis: From the skeleton minotaur?
Matt: No, this is from the armored guy.
Travis: Gotcha. Okay. We've got to get you out of there.
Matt: And the third strike hits you for four points of slashing and a third dark smite. Another 13 points of necrotic damage.
Marisha: That brings me exactly to zero.
Matt: You drop your form.
Marisha: I drop form. Just form. I tanked that motherfucking fight, y'all.
Matt: So at that point, all of a sudden your form drops in place.
Marisha: I'm still on the ceiling, right?
Matt: Yes, you are. The war priest across the way is going to look outward and begin to focus and chant under his breath, and the little bit of light begins to show, once again, the missing eye on most of these individuals. Delilah is not missing an eye, it seems, but the rest of them seem to have this appearance amongst them. As it releases this form of energy, you watch as a familiar, darker-burning flame begins to spill across the ceiling as a Flame Strike makes its way-- not a Fire Storm, Flame Strike. Sorry, so it's a column.
Sam: Am I close to him?
Matt: Scanlan is-- it's a 60-foot range, is what you're asking? Yes, it is.
Sam: I'll Counterspell that.
Matt: Counterspell the Flame Strike?
Sam: Sure.
Marisha: Scanlan!
Liam: I missed you.
Taliesin: It's so nice that this is not a problem.
Matt: I need you to roll a d20. Add your charisma modifier.
Sam: It's just a plus two? Oh, wait. Wrong guy! Ooh, 19.
Matt: 19 will do it. With that, as the flames begin to well out in this column of fire and dark divine energy, you just reach out and snap your fingers and the spell vanishes on the spot.
Liam: Shorthalt.
Ashley: Shorthalt.
Laura: Shorthalt!
Sam: I don't feel the love! I need to go away for another year.
Travis: It's a start.
Matt: That necromancer, however, is going to impact in the center of the chamber a burst of necrotic energy that billows out from the center in a 60-foot radius. It's going to affect all of you guys.
Liam: Me up in the corner?
Matt: Everyone but you because you're away. Mr. Way Out of the Way Guy.
Liam: It's what I do.
Marisha: Ceiling and floor?
Matt: Ceiling and floor, because it's a large enough radius where it affects the entire space. I need you guys to roll a constitution saving throw for me, please.
Laura: Who?
Matt: Everybody but Vax. No, it will still affect Doty.
Taliesin: I have advantage because of Cabal.
Laura: I suck tonight!
Marisha: Yeah!
Laura: I can't help it!
Liam: Mother bitch!
Sam: Laura, did you roll?
Laura: Oh, I can add inspiration! Okay. No, that's not going to save me.
Matt: So over here. Grog?
Travis: 26.
Matt: 26. You take 15 points of necrotic damage. Pike.
Ashley: 15.
Matt: 15? You take 15 points of necrotic damage.
Laura: Ten.
Matt: You take 30 points of necrotic damage.
Marisha: 23.
Matt: You take 15 points of necrotic damage.
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Matt: 15 points of necrotic damage.
Jon: Ten.
Matt: 30 points of necrotic damage. Scanlan?
Sam: 24.
Matt: 24? You take 15 points of necrotic damage, and make a concentration check, please. Constitution saving throw, with advantage because you have war caster.
Sam: Plus anything?
Matt: Plus your constitution saving throw bonus.
Sam: Constitution saving throw. It's a lot. 22 on the first one.
Matt: You have advantage, but yeah. You maintain concentration. You're fine. All righty, and I need Taryon.
Sam: 13 plus seven. 20.
Matt: All right. 15 points of necrotic damage to Taryon. As the wave fades off, you hear the chuckle of the two cultists, and they step backward into the red sphere.
Taliesin: Weren't they on the ceiling?
Matt: Oh, you're right. Sorry. They were on the ceiling. Thank you for the reminder!
Taliesin: They were my least favorite.
Matt: I know. Fair enough.
Sam: Does Doty get hit?
Matt: Doty does get hit, yes.
Sam: He's out.
Matt: Doty is (creak, impact) on the ground. Thank you for the reminder. Sorry.
Sam: Wait, how many points?
Matt: 30. 30 necrotic.
Laura: Trinket.
Matt: Did Trinket roll? Roll for Trinket.
Laura: No.
Matt: 30 points of necrotic for Trinket. All righty. That ends their go there. Pike?
Ashley: Okay, so I am going to hold my turn until after Scanlan goes.
Matt: All you can hold is an action. What action are you going to hold?
Ashley: I have to tell you what I'm going to do?
Matt: Essentially, yeah. As opposed to moving your initiative around in the order, you can still move on your turn, and then if you're going to cast or attack, you start it and then wait for something to trigger it and then release it when that happens.
Ashley: I'm going to cast Guiding Bolt, but I'm going to hold it until after Scanlan's turn.
Liam: He's at the bottom?
Laura: She's at the bottom.
Matt: Scanlan's close to the top. Okay, so you begin casting Guiding Bolt. What's the trigger? For Scanlan to go?
Ashley: For Scanlan to go.
Matt: Okay. You begin concentrating on the spell. End of your turn?
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. How many people are still on the ceiling with me?
Matt: Grog, Lionel, and a number of skeletons. The blackguard, the two other casters over there, the minotaur skeleton...
Marisha: Okay. I drop form. I'm going to look around and go, (nervous laughter) and drop my staff and do Fire Storm radiating out from me, and I want to try and avoid Lionel and Grog, but basically radiating out, fire floods the ceiling.
Matt: Okay. You can hit him. (counting) You can get everyone but these two skeletons, if you want to do a swath through that.
Marisha: Everyone but the two skeletons?
Matt: Actually, if you started it here, you could go... (counting) You can either avoid the two skeletons or avoid one of those casters. Your call.
Marisha: No, fuck the casters.
Matt: So those two skeletons next to you untouched. Everything else in there has to make a dexterity saving throw against a DC 21. Natural 20 on that first skeleton.
Marisha: What a dick!
Matt: Minotaur does not make it. Let's see. Blackguard does not make it. Natural 20 on that caster there, and a 13 on that one. So this one fails, that caster succeeds, blackguard fails, minotaur fails, skeleton succeeds. Roll damage on that.
Marisha: I get to reroll ones. (counting) 26. Roll two more. 12 more damage. What did I just say?
Taliesin: 26.
Marisha: 26, plus 12 more. 38 damage.
Matt: 38 points of damage. This skeleton is burned into ash and destroyed. The minotaur skeleton, even though it made the save with a 20, it had taken damage from the fall earlier and it was enough to wipe it out. Minotaur skeleton, with that last bit, also burns up. The flames burn around the blackguard, but it stands there, defiant. It seems to almost be relishing the pain as it burns and tears through its armor. You don't see a face. All you see is black armor, jagged at the tips, long cloak that is burned to the back, big glaive that spins in his arm.
Travis: Where is he?
Matt: Right there. He takes half the damage.
Taliesin: Is he on fire, too?
Matt: It doesn't set them on fire. All righty. Keyleth, that's your action. What else are you going to do?
Marisha: Can I move any? Can I back out of wherever I am? Where am I?
Matt: You're right there. Two skeletons get attacks of opportunity on you if you move. It's up to you.
Marisha: I'll stay. Let me back out of it.
Matt: Okay. Two attacks of opportunity on you. That is a 24?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: And a 17.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: All right. You take 22 points of slashing damage.
Liam: Sorry, honey.
Marisha: It's okay.
Liam: You're fine. Oh, you're dead.
Marisha: I'm fine.
Matt: Okay. Delilah.
Sam: Wait, she goes through the thing?!
Matt: Yeah. She walks through.
Liam: She can go wherever the fuck she wants.
Matt: She's going to make a dexterity check to hold on right there, and she rolls a 23. No, a 22. Your DC is 22 for Scanlan? She just steps out of it and holds onto the edge. Actually, she wouldn't have had to do that. She steps to the edge. She succeeded, but she basically just looks out of the sphere. You watch her face appear out, and her hand. She begins to look around for her next target.
Liam: Matt Mercer in drag, shitting all over us.
Sam: All it ever has been.
Matt: She looks over at you, Pike, and goes, "Not this time, my dear." I need you-- Delilah's got the Player's Handbook-- I need you to make an intelligence saving throw, please.
Ashley: Intelligence saving throw? Okay, I get advantages. Okay.
Laura: Don't jinx this.
Travis: The same fucking thing.
Liam: Two eights. Holy fuck.
Ashley: Nine.
Matt: Nine. As her finger reaches out to you, your brain goes a little numb and a little fuzzy, and the spell that you were preparing dissipates, and conscious thought becomes difficult as the Feeblemind spell takes effect.
Marisha: No! Bitch!
Laura: What works on Feeblemind?
Marisha: This is my karma!
Matt: Your intelligence and charisma become one. You can't cast spells, you cannot understand language or communicate in any intelligible way.
Marisha: I might be able to do a Greater Restoration on you, but I don't know if I can help you there.
Laura: Tiberius had it one time. How did we heal him?
Marisha: It was a restoration spell.
Matt: She steps, laughing, back into the orb.
Liam: Back into the Skittle? Fuck you, Delilah. Holy shit!
Matt: Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: God fucking damn it.
Travis: Can you point to where Pike is on the map? Okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to continue further down the wall towards the evil orb of death.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Is that as far as I can get?
Matt: That's as far as you can get in a 30-foot movement, yeah.
Taliesin: Okay. And the cultist closest to me on the ceiling?
Matt: That's going to be that one right there.
Taliesin: That one right there? Let's do some damage with Animus, and let's add a sharpshooter for it, just for fun.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: That's 16 to hit.
Matt: 16 to hit does not hit.
Taliesin: Hold on, I may have done that wrong. 17 to hit.
Matt: Still does not hit. As soon as you fire, it hits but it sparks off what looks like big plate armor on this caster that the robes were obscuring. As it hits, it tears through the cloth and you see the reflection of armor beneath.
Taliesin: That's irritating. All right, forget sharpshooter. One more. That's better. 24 to hit.
Matt: 24 hits, yeah.
Taliesin: This is not the one I have the Hex on, right? Okay, that's fine. I should have done that differently. 12 points of damage and one point of psychic damage.
Matt: All righty. This does hit. (gunshot) Doesn't seem to affect him much.
Taliesin: He's still fine, isn't he? That's fine. I'm going to hit him again.
Matt: Go for it. Scanlan, you're up next.
Taliesin: That's like 35 to hit. Jesus Christ, I rolled a 19. And that's 17 points of damage and one point of psychic damage.
Matt: All righty. Still standing. Not showing any wear and tear. Taking damage, but does not appear to be wounded significantly.
Taliesin: I'm going to use my bonus to heal myself a little bit because goddamn it. Oh, Jesus.
Jon: You're attacking who?
Taliesin: I'm attacking one of the cultists. I'm up to 120 hit points now.
Matt: This isn't the one in the fully dark armor. This is the one that has armor under a cloak. It looks like an older man's face. Has this staff at the side and a mace hanging from the belt and is currently casting spells from the ceiling right now.
Taliesin: Goddamn it. I wanted to throw some electricity on it and I blanked because my brain is made of Swiss cheese. Is it too late?
Matt: I'll let you throw it on.
Taliesin: I'm going to add-- on that last shot, I'm going to add 5d6 worth of electricity damage.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: (counting) 16 points of lightning damage.
Matt: 16 points of lightning damage.
Taliesin: That's five Cabal's. (blast) Five Cabal's.
Matt: All righty. That ends your turn, Percival?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I don't have much.
Taliesin: Really?
Marisha: You've always ever said that.
Taliesin: You always say that. That doesn't mean anything.
Travis: The minotaur's down, right?
Matt: The minotaur fell, yeah. It was incinerated by the Fire Storm.
Laura: It's cultists and Delilah left?
Matt: And some skeletons.
Travis: And a dark paladin's still up there.
Marisha: The blackguard, yeah.
Jon: The one who's got all that black. The really powerful one.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: It's possible we can run straight into the ball.
Sam: Who's with me? Who's near me? Nobody, right?
Matt: Right now? Nobody is near you. Right, Pike is right next to you.
Sam: I can't do anything to Pike or with Pike. (fake sobs) All right. I'll inspire myself. The saddest inspiration. (singing) It's raining gnomes. Hallelujah, it's raining gnomes. Everywhere we go. Short, stout, tough, and mean. The handsomest I've ever seen.
Matt: What are you doing?
Sam: I'm going to Dimension Door into the orb, into the whatever this thing is. The prismatic ball.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: If it's doable to pass through a magic barrier.
Taliesin: It might be concentration-based, and if he can knock it out...
Ashley: Clever gnome.
Liam: Come on, baby.
Matt: I'm going to check one thing. This is important, because this will make a big difference.
Laura: Is it an action to drop anti-gravity?
Sam: I can do it at will.
Laura: They'll all get bludgeoning damage from the fall.
Sam: So will you.
Laura: I'm not on the ceiling.
Matt: All right.
Sam: Not into the orb of death.
Matt: But inside the sphere. I understand. I will say, as is the nature of the spell versus a Dimension Door, I need you, as you begin to pass through, your form folds through the magic, the very powerful magic and intent of this sphere. The dome of red hits you immediately. I need you to make a dexterity saving throw, please.
Sam: Two.
Matt: Two.
Sam: Oh, wait. Plus six. That's eight. Plus, I'm inspired.
Matt: You can inspire and roll on top of that, if you want.
Sam: Ten. So 18.
Matt: 18. Not enough. All right.
Taliesin: Oh god, there's a lot of d6 I hear rolling.
Matt: You take 28 points of fire damage for the red. As soon as you flash through, and there's orange behind it. I need you to make another dexterity saving throw.
Laura: Oh no, it's a whole rainbow!
Jon: Rainbow, ending with indigo!
Sam: 18.
Matt: 18.
Taliesin: Oh no.
Liam: And if you make it in, you're in a death box.
Matt: You take 34 points of force damage. Sorry, lightning damage on this. Acid damage. I'm reading the wrong one.
Sam: Acid, I get halved.
Matt: All right, so you take 17 points of acid damage.
Taliesin: Oh god.
Matt: You pass through that into yellow. Make another dexterity saving throw.
Sam: I thought Dimension Door, I disappear to another plane and reappear.
Matt: The essence of this 9th-level spell is to not let anything pass through it.
Sam: All right. Keep it coming.
Matt: Make a dexterity saving throw.
Sam: 16.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Can he bounce off at some point and stop pulling through this fucking rainbow of death?
Matt: This is the first time that I've used this, so I'm making sure that I can...
Liam: Scanlan Shorthalt, killed by ROYGBIV.
Marisha: What fucking spell is this?
Matt: You know what?
Sam: No, keep it coming. I got this.
Matt: No, based on how it's written, it's passing through the sphere.
Sam: What do you mean, passing through?
Matt: Physically passing through the sphere, so I will say, looking at the rules now and really thinking about how it's worded. It doesn't say otherwise. I'll say you can teleport into the sphere.
Laura: Oh my god. You're going to another plane!
Travis: It's not a gimme.
Matt: I'm going to take that damage back.
Sam: I can take it, Matt. Bring it!
Matt: No. You've made a valid point, and the spell does specify "pass through it." You do not pass through it. You appear on the other side. So what's the range on that?
Sam: 500 feet.
Matt: You appear inside. You appear within, and you're now on the inside. You can see, the bright colors are there, blinding you from the interior. Make a constitution saving throw.
Liam: Congratulations. You're in a prison cell with Charles Manson.
Sam: 15.
Matt: 15.
Sam: I still have my inspiration.
Matt: You do.
Sam: 18.
Matt: Okay. The good news is, you didn't take any of that damage as you bamf inside the sphere. Bad news is, you're blinded for a minute.
Sam: Great.
Matt: The colors are so bright in there, your eyes immediately go stark, flashing white. You cannot see anything in there.
Sam: Great.
Liam: Hi, my name's Jeffrey Dahmer. Welcome to my Prismatic Sphere.
Taliesin: You know, I would watch Jeffrey Dahmer's Prismatic Sphere.
Matt: Scanlan, that's your action.
Sam: And my bonus.
Matt: Is that your turn?
Sam: Yeah, that's it. That's all I've got. I can't see the danger I'm in.
Matt: That's true. However, you didn't take any damage, so you didn't lose your concentration on the spell. You're just blinded. All right, so now those cultists have all been slain. I forgot to do the skeletons last time, so I'll have them move in. These two skeletons are going to rush in. This one's going to go ahead and... 25. That's four skeletons on you, Keyleth.
Marisha: Four skeletons on me?
Matt: Yeah. Eight misses you. 13 misses you, I'm pretty sure. Eight again.
Marisha: Miss!
Matt: And a 24. You take 11 points of slashing damage. Three of them are swinging at you and you're dodging out of the way, and then one of them catches you across the shoulder and you're like, (grunts). All right, that ends their go. Grog.
Travis: I'm going to charge in towards the pedestal. What's the first thing that I reach?
Matt: The first thing that you reach over here is a skeleton.
Travis: Yeah. Reckless, great weapon master.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: 27?
Matt: That hits. Minimum damage, you destroy it, because of the great weapon master. You walk up, smash. There's one also adjacent to you there.
Travis: Yep. Him, too.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: Reckless again. 20, even.
Matt: 20 hits. Minimum damage shatters that skeleton. You can move five feet in and get a third one, if you'd like.
Travis: Actually, I would like to smash the Titanstone Knuckles together and cast Enlarge on myself.
Matt: Okay. So instead, you go into full, large-size Grog mode here. (impact sound) There you have it.
Travis: Fee fie foe, you're fucked.
Matt: That's your turn, Grog? Lionel.
Jon: Okay. Who's the closest to me?
Matt: Closest to you are the skeletons here, or if you wanted to rush around and get the guy with the big heavy armor.
Jon: That's the old guy?
Matt: There's an old one with a staff, there's a black knight in all the armor with the halberd, or there's some skeletons.
Jon: Can I make it over to the black knight?
Matt: Yeah, you can make it over to him.
Jon: Yeah.
Matt: You get up to him right there.
Jon: Is there any of my teammates? I want to give bardic inspiration to someone. Are you close? You need it? I'm going to give you--
Marisha: We're upside-down on the ceiling.
Jon: L-E-T-S-G-O. Let's go, let's go. (laughter)
Marisha: I'm like, you know how to spell, Lionel!
Jon: That's the only thing I learned.
Marisha: I'm so impressed.
Jon: It's the only song I know, but it works.
Marisha: How much do I get?
Matt: You take a d8, I think?
Jon: 1d8 times three per short rest.
Matt: Yeah, you can use it three times. You get a d8 inspiration die, Keyleth.
Liam: Be aggressive.
Marisha: Be aggressive.
Jon: I'm going to do a Hold Person. I want to hold that guy.
Matt: All right. He's going to make a wisdom saving throw. What's your spell DC?
Jon: 16.
Matt: 16. Natural 20.
Jon: So it doesn't work.
Matt: No. As you begin to cast the spell on him and you reach out for his mind to clench it, he (chuckles) and readies his halberd. No effect.
Jon: Okay. Don't I have another attack? Is raging done with now?
Matt: You're still raging. You can maintain your rage as long as you're attacking things. You used your action to cast the spell instead of attacking.
Jon: So my turn is done.
Matt: That's your turn, yeah. Unfortunately. Sorry, man. All righty, Taryon.
Sam: I don't think I can get through that thing, can I? I'll fly up closer to the orb.
Taliesin: We still have two cultists full of magic.
Sam: Oh. Where are they?
Taliesin: They're above you.
Sam: They're right above me?
Taliesin: On the roof.
Sam: Oh. Well, then I'll attack them, I guess. How wide is my Prismatic Spray cone?
Matt: How wide is your Prismatic Spray cone? What's the cone size on it that it says?
Sam: It's just the standard Prismatic Spray spell.
Taliesin: It's your everyday Prismatic Spray. It sprays in a cone. It's a sugar cone, not a waffle cone.
Matt: Prismatic Spray I'm pretty sure is a 60-foot cone. So it is this big old fun guy. What are you doing?
Sam: Will it hit the protective thing, as well as the people on the ceiling?
Matt: You can try and spray them, as it is a cone. You can aim it up probably to catch the edge of it.
Sam: I'm mainly aiming at the two dudes above.
Matt: All right, so you can hit those guys and the blackguard, if you want to. All righty, so roll a d8.
Sam: A d8? Just 1d8?
Matt: For that guy there.
Sam: Oh, that's right, to pick the color. Four.
Matt: All righty, that's green, so poison for him. For the sphere?
Sam: Seven.
Matt: Seven for the sphere. That is violet. No effect. Okay, that guy there?
Sam: Two.
Matt: Two. Orange. Acid. And the guard.
Sam: Five.
Matt: Five. Cold. All right, so roll 10d6. Failure for him. Failure for the blackguard, who rolled a four. All three of them fail.
Sam: Okay. (counting) 39.
Matt: 39. All righty... This war priest over here, the one on the far end, as you strike. That was with the acid ray. The green ray strikes him and he goes (death rattle) and slowly dissolves into a pile of purplish-red mush that begins to smear across the roof. The other two are impacted by it, and they're reeling from the pain. They're starting to show some real wear and tear now. That's going to end yours?
Sam: Yeah, pretty much. Oh, and I'll fly closer to the sphere. I said that already.
Matt: Yeah. Vax.
Liam: Oh, I'm up? Lionel is right on that dark paladin, right?
Matt: That is correct.
Liam: All right. I would like to use my movement to fly. It's probably not all of it, but 120 feet to get to his backside and stab him in the back.
Matt: You can get there.
Liam: We'll start with that.
Matt: You rush in.
Liam: That is a 19.
Matt: 19 will hit, yes.
Liam: All right, so that is sneak attack damage. He gets three plus eight is 11, plus... where the hell did my d8 go? Okay, 16 plus sneak attack damage. (counting) 45. So that guy took 45 in the back.
Matt: Yes, and as you rush down with the speed of an elven bullet, you drive the blade right into the center of the armor plates, and you watch as he's chuckling with his glaive out, glaring at Lionel. (chuckles, death rattle, thud) And falls dead to the ground.
Liam: Perfect. So that's movement, action, and what I have left is hasted action and bonus action, so I would like to use my bonus action to zip over to Pike, 120 feet.
Matt: As a dash. Okay.
Liam: Yeah, and use my hasted action to carry her out of here, out where there's nobody. Towards the end of your map.
Matt: Okay, grabbing her, you can move at half movement to try and pull her along.
Liam: That's 60 feet.
Matt: Correct. You get her about over here.
Liam: That's great.
Matt: That ends your turn.
Liam: I give her a bonus-bonus action to tousle her hair. Next.
Matt: Easy enough with the wind blowing around. Vex.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to take aim at the other cultist. I'm going to Hunter's Mark them. That's the old one with the staff?
Matt: There are two of them that appear to be staff wielders. The older one has been destroyed with acid. The other one you haven't really gotten close enough to see the face of.
Laura: But they're holding a staff?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: I'm going to bramble shot that one. No. Yeah, I'm going to bramble shot the one that I haven't seen his face yet.
Matt: Okay, so roll to attack.
Laura: That was a 33.
Matt: Yeah, that will hit. Roll damage.
Laura: Okay. (counting) Nobody's standing next to him, right?
Matt: Nope.
Laura: (counting) 27. So 27 damage, and then DC of 17. Strength DC of 17.
Liam: You're a fucking beast.
Matt: Does not succeed. He is restrained. (grunts) As you slam with the arrow from the other side, (grunts) the vines curl up and wrap around, constraining him. He's still holding the staff through part of it, but he's completely unable to move and is restrained.
Laura: But he's holding the staff, still?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to hit him again.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: Get him!
Ashley: Get him!
Laura: I can't fucking add! 22?
Matt: 22 does hit. Roll damage.
Laura: I know.
Matt: 100th episode, guys.
Travis: It's extravagant.
Sam: We're onto our bonus material.
Matt: I know. I want to finish this to a narrative beat. Sorry. Thanks for coming along, guys.
Laura: Do I get sneak attack because he's restrained?
Matt: You do.
Liam: Advantage, yeah. Yeah, motherfucker.
Laura: That was the shittiest additional four. Oh no. I don't have any idea what I rolled before that.
Matt: Then roll again.
Laura: Oh god. I'm so sorry! (counting) This is so much better than the first roll. 23, and then. 33.
Matt: 33. Got it. All right, so (arrow impact) the other arrow hits. Blood pours out of the mouth as they're being held there. They're trying to break away, but they're not very strong. End of your turn? Trinket?
Laura: I'm going to get on my broom.
Matt: Okay, you get on your broom. You going to move anywhere?
Laura: No, but I'm going to be ready to.
Liam: (motorcycle revving)
Matt: All righty, so the necromancer that you just hit--
Laura: I Hunter's Marked him, too, didn't I? I didn't add my Hunter's Mark on either of those attacks. An additional seven for Hunter's Mark.
Matt: Okay. All righty. He angrily, from beneath the vines, gets his staff forward and begins chanting something under his breath. Rears back and exhales, and you watch as a cloud of green, billowing, poisonous smoke spills out in this area. That's going to get all of you guys. I want Keyleth, Grog, Lionel, and Percy to all make a constitution saving throw, please.
Taliesin: Is it magical?
Matt: It is magical. It is a Cloudkill spell.
Travis: It's not poison, though, right?
Matt: It is poison.
Marisha: Don't fuck me, Gil. Ooh, that's not great. I'm going to go ahead and roll my inspiration. That's better.
Matt: Okay, so you take--
Travis: I have resistance against poison because of the Belt of Dwarvenkind.
Matt: 15 points of poison damage, reduced to seven.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: 12.
Matt: 12. You suffer 30 points of poison damage.
Marisha: I'm okay. I'm all right.
Matt: Lionel?
Marisha: How much? 31?
Matt: 30 points of poison damage.
Jon: 18, but how does off a duck's back work, again?
Matt: You use your reaction to reduce the damage by half.
Jon: Do I have a reaction? Can I do that now?
Matt: Yes, and you succeed on that, so you actually reduce it to a quarter, so instead it is seven points of poison damage. Percival?
Taliesin: I rolled 27.
Matt: 15 points of poison damage.
Sam: Off a duck's back? Oh mallard.
Matt: The cloud remains in this area, so this whole area is a billowing cloud of bad news.
Laura: I assume we didn't hear that terrible pun from inside the orb of death?
Jon: What was it?
Sam: I said, oh mal-lard. Oh mallard.
Matt: Yes, I understand it happens at the start of their turn, but we're trying to get through this quickly, guys. Don't worry. Calming down the internet. It's fine. Yep. Two skeletons already went. That brings us to Pike.
Ashley: Can I do anything?
Matt: You can move and attack. No spells.
Laura: She can attack. Oh, she can't attack.
Liam: But we're way in the back.
Sam: You can't do anything?
Matt: Not much you can do from this angle, unfortunately. What do you want to do?
Ashley: There's no rolling against it or anything?
Matt: Nope. You get to roll against it in 30 days.
Ashley: Oh, cool. I'll be back in New York.
Travis: We'll time-jump.
Marisha: I can fix it. Just give me a hot second.
Laura: What if you die?
Ashley: Yeah, what if you die?
Liam: We'll have several problems if Keyleth dies.
Ashley: Just wander off? I'll start walking back towards that way.
Matt: This way?
Ashley: Just start wandering. Yeah.
Matt: You can dash again.
Ashley: I don't need to dash.
Matt: Okay. You'll stay back there? We'll say you get that far. That ends Pike's turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Who's left on the ceiling with me?
Matt: It's you and Grog and Lionel on the ceiling with two skeletons.
Marisha: Two skeletons? That's it?
Matt: And one cultist.
Marisha: And one fucking cultist?
Jon: He's been pretty hard to kill.
Taliesin: I can't help.
Marisha: Oh my god. A lot of things have changed in a hot second. Okay. What's going on right now?
Taliesin: I can't help. I'm not allowed to help.
Marisha: Where's Delilah?
Laura: She's hiding in the ball. We can't get to her.
Travis: Smoke everybody outside that bitch.
Marisha: I mean, why not? Go big or go home. I'm going to burn my 9th-level Shapechange and go... I'm going to go red dragon?
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: And that's all I can do, right?
Matt: Yep. That is your action.
Marisha: I'm a dragon on the ceiling.
Matt: You can still move if you want to, but you are a dragon on the ceiling.
Jon: Cool.
Liam: Do you have a giant crate of the things she can turn into?
Marisha: He does. He had to pack a lot of stuff because of me. I feel mildly guilty.
Matt: That's fine. What are you doing, Keyleth?
Marisha: Can I move, (impacts) giant dragon walking on the ceiling, and then look down at Delilah backwards and upside down and say, hello!
Matt: You get two attacks of opportunity from the two skeletons as you step over. 18 and 21.
Marisha: No, yes.
Matt: Take 11 points of slashing damage. Do you have damage resistance in your dragon form?
Marisha: Yeah, I do.
Matt: You move over and you look down. It's an orb, it's not a cylinder, so you just see the giant red dome. You can't see her because it's a dome.
Marisha: I can't see her.
Matt: Nope. So, you get up and you glance down. For the purposes of this, you are currently right there and it's just a big red dome. There, it's fine. Reverse Gravity makes this battlefield so easy to keep track of.
Liam: Sorry, Matt!
Matt: It's fine. All right, Keyleth, is that your go? It was an action to cast it and your move.
Marisha: I have Frightful Presence for anyone who might be terrified of me. That's it.
Matt: Nobody sees you right now through the sphere. That ends your turn. All right. Delilah, within the sphere, the cultists next to her end up throwing the last object up and they-- well, no, sorry, they have not been throwing it in there because when the sphere turned, they'd been holding in there waiting for a moment. Delilah glances out and sees the dragon up there, she gets to make her save against your Frightful Presence. That is a 21 wisdom.
Marisha: What's that against?
Matt: The DC of whatever your Frightful Presence is.
Marisha: 19. Versus wisdom save.
Matt: Wisdom saves, yeah, she makes it. She looks out, seeing everyone falling apart out there, pulls back in, looks at Scanlan and goes, "There's more important things to do." She grabs her amulet that she has around her neck and as she holds it again, you watch as the white orb that was glowing turns to black once again. In that instant, Grog, you revert back to your regular size, Keyleth, you return to your form, Percy, you fall off the side of the wall and land on your feet barely. The skeletons just collapse into piles of bones. Tary, you fall and land on the ground there. This Prismatic Wall vanishes.
Sam: Does Feeblemind end?
Matt: Feeblemind, currently, right now, is not affecting you. Meaning, Feeblemind, whatever the spell is right now, doesn't seem to be having an effect. All of a sudden, your consciousness comes back to you.
Ashley: Really?!
Matt: Uh-huh.
Ashley: Oh, fucking hell!
Matt: She, clutching the amulet, gives a nod to the two other cultists and all three of them step into the black orb. You watch as their forms (whooshing noises) and vanish.
Travis: They disapparated.
Ashley: They stepped into the circle?
Matt: Yep!
Laura: The orb, they went into the orb!
Travis: They're moving freely and it looked like pretty familiarly--
Matt: Through the sphere.
Marisha: They went into the thing! They're gone forever!
Taliesin: No!
Travis: And they've done it before.
Laura: That's how they got over here!
Matt: Scanlan, I want you to roll a perception check.
Sam: Not great. Five.
Matt: Okay. Never mind.
Marisha: If she went in the tiny thing.
Matt: Yep!
Marisha: I still have Shapechange for another hour.
Sam: No, it's gone, you're done.
Marisha: Wait, did she cancel my spell, or is it just the orb that's done?
Matt: You sense the concentration is still there, but the spell has no effect where you currently are. By the way, Lionel and Grog, you both (falling sounds) slamming into the ground.
Travis: Dexterity?
Matt: Nope! You guys suffer 15 points of bludgeoning damage. So, reduced to half for both of you because you're raging, so seven bludgeoning damage each.
Liam: And are the wings schlorped back in?
Matt: Yes. Your wings (retracting sound).
Jon: Mine says "while raging, resist bludgeoning damage."
Matt: That's what I'm saying, you're taking half damage from this. You take seven, as opposed to 15.
Sam: Am I still there?
Matt: You're still there, right next to the orb.
Taliesin: I am going to unload a couple shots into the orb and see what happens.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and take a shot.
Taliesin: Animus freezes up, I throw it. Pull Bad News. Bad News freezes up. I pull Retort. That hits.
Matt: Technically, fire, discard, quick draw, right? Quick draw means you can do it as a free action as a part of it?
Taliesin: Yeah, I'll burn an action surge for this.
Matt: We'll say because you only used your bonus action to-- oh, not to reload. As a quick draw, you can pull it as an attack, you're fine. So, you do three attacks, the third one fires. You fire (bullet) and it vanishes into the orb.
Taliesin: I'm going to sit and fix my guns.
Travis: Are there any enemies left on the map?
Matt: Currently, there's the one right there who's being held by the brambles. The brambles have vanished, and he's currently still conscious, and it's not his turn yet. So, Percy took all the shots into the orb. It is now Scanlan's turn.
Sam: I will draw my blade and scream and hit that thing with my sword. No, the guy! The guy, not the orb.
Matt: You rush towards the guy as the brambles wither away and fall to the ground. He turns around to rush towards the orb just as you rush towards him. Your bardic battle cry just "Argh!" with Mythcarver. Go ahead and make your attack.
Sam: Jon's dice. 11 plus I think it's ten. Somewhere.
Matt: That'll hit. His armor class isn't very high; it's just a mage armor of 15.
Laura: Yay!
Sam: It's just a sword; it's not even magical now. Shit, I can't find anything, I think it's 1d8 plus two.
Matt: It's 1d8 plus your strength.
Sam: 1d8 plus three. Right?
Matt: Well, it doesn't have a magical bonus right now. So just 1d8 plus your strength modifier. What's your strength modifier?
Sam: I can't even find it. I think it's one, but this is an old sheet.
Matt: So, 1d8 plus one, your strength hasn't gone up.
Sam: Thank you. Seven.
Matt: Seven damage.
Sam: Plus one. So eight damage.
Matt: Eight damage. How do you want to do this, Scanlan?
Laura: The most lackluster how do you want to do this!
Matt: He had, like, three hit points left. How do you want to do this?
Sam: I'll just stab him in his toes over and over and I'll say, this is what you get for separating me from my friends! Who I want to be around forever because I love them! Is this what we're supposed to do now, is this the thing?
Travis: Don't question it.
Sam: Okay. Yeah, my friends!
Matt: As you repeatedly stab it in the feet, he's like, "Ow! Ow! Ow! Ow! Ow!" and it's like trying to pull away from you down the side of the pyramid ziggurat. "What are you doing?!" as you keep stabbing it over and over again into the feet until it falls unconscious. Bleeding out through his ankles. How very Scanlan.
Travis: Through his ankles.
Laura: (laughing) That is the stupidest death!
Travis: All right, we're going in the little sphere. Here we go.
Laura: No!
Marisha: So, what? What?
Travis: No, no, no.
Marisha: So it's only a dark magical, anti-magical field because she wants it to be?!
Travis: She manipulated it.
Laura: She turned it into that.
Marisha: Which means--
Laura: She succeeded on the previous one. This a pathway into some other world now.
Marisha: She can change it!
Jon: She did something. It was black before, then she turned it white, and I don't know if that allowed magic. But when she turned it black again, all magic stops, so.
Travis: Which is like the one that we've been around.
Liam: I mean, she knows what she's doing.
Travis: Who has Speak with Dead?
Laura: We can't do anything in here.
Taliesin: We're going to drag this cadaver outside.
Laura: Okay, let's take the cadaver outside.
Marisha: So, it's just very strong magic which makes her change what it is?
Liam: She knows how it works. We don't know why she's here, but she figured shit out the last time.
Laura: We fucking killed her. How did we kill her before? How did she die?
Matt: You killed her in the hallway as she was trying to escape back to Castle Whitestone when you were fighting Orthax.
Laura: Like, she fully fucking died.
Matt: You killed her and threw her body in the acid pit.
Laura: Holy shit.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Travis: Not a lot of remains to be, you know.
Taliesin: Resurrected.
Marisha: All of their magic was necromantic.
Sam: What if it's just her soul or something?
Laura: What if it's not really her?
Travis: Well, listen, we're not going in the orb, right?
Taliesin: No.
Travis: Yeah, so let's drag one of these smart-looking fucks outside and have Pike do Twenty Questions.
Sam: I'm a little worried that once we walk outside, Pike becomes dumb again.
Laura: Well, she can Greater Restoration her as soon as we walk outside.
Marisha: I can.
Taliesin: Let's take this outside. Just take it outside. Nothing good happens here.
Marisha: Wait, before we go. Pike, does Sarenrae know anything about this? Anything?
Ashley: I can check.
Travis: Sam, I think you're right.
Taliesin: You're just going to waste your attempt in here.
Jon: There might be some ducks.
Matt: Are you going to try to have a brief communion with Sarenrae in the temple?
Laura: I mean, you could try.
Liam: If you lose your brain, you can't do it, so why not?
Ashley: I'll try.
Matt: You drop to your knees for a moment and concentrate, hoping for her wisdom. Go ahead and make a general wisdom check. Roll a d20 and add your wisdom modifier. Plus five.
Ashley: Wisdom modifier?
Matt: Yeah, I believe it's plus five.
Ashley: Okay. 22.
Matt: 22. As you concentrate, you feel the warmth of Sarenrae's embrace descend from the darkness of the inside of your eyelids. You see the angelic form of her flaming aura come down and her hands touch the sides of your cheek. She turns your head around towards the orb. And, where previously you saw the little black dot, instead, you see a large oval doorway. Around it, it is flickering madly like a hundred spinning razors around the edges, but just beyond it you can see what appears to be a desolate, gray landscape, what looks to be a scattering of city buildings across this broken, black shadowland, and in the center a singular black obsidian tower that rises up to where you can't quite see the top from your current angle. And she gets down really close to the side of your ear. You feel the warmth of her divine breath against your face. She says, "This is the destiny. This needs to stop. Only terror will come through this."
Ashley: We have to go there?
Matt: "Whatever way you can. Our reach cannot go beyond the Divine Gate."
Ashley: If I go there, will you not be able to go with me?
Matt: "I will be diminished, if at all able to."
Ashley: Okay. Thank you.
Matt: And her finger touches your head and she kisses the top of your forehead and you feel the warm presence again, and she withdraws. As she withdraws, the cold is even harder with her absence because now the proximity of that shadow, of this room, just this general sense of negative energy and death that emanates from this direction behind you. As soon as you watch her light vanish and you open your eyes again, you're chilled to the bone.
Ashley: Okay. Well, it's a doorway, and we have to go there. It's the only way to stop this.
Laura: Stop what?
Ashley: I don't know.
Laura: Well, we can't go through now.
Taliesin: Can't we?
Marisha: Is it just like this now? Like the ziggurat in Whitestone?
Taliesin: I don't know. Can't we?
Travis: Yeah, we can.
Laura: Oh, fuck. But, we're not even healed. They just went through. We're going to go through and just die immediately.
Sam: We have to go at least find out if the spells are still affecting us. If we go through and Pike's dumb--
Ashley: Maybe we should back out.
Marisha: The last time I put my hand in the sphere when it was black it nearly tore me apart. We could try again.
Laura: It was just a doorway?
Ashley: It was a doorway, and it opened into a city of sorts and in the middle was an obsidian tower.
Laura: That's what I saw through the other one!
Ashley: Okay.
Liam: Do I feel anything? Sense anything?
Matt: In what way?
Liam: From my patron.
Matt: Do you wish to try to concentrate there?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Make a wisdom check. d20, add your wisdom modifier.
Liam: Use my last Luck of the day. Same thing. It's shit. Seven.
Matt: Seven? You concentrate and you get the sense that the proximity of this orb and something about the nature of this whole occurrence is interfering with your connection with your deity temporarily. You try and reach out to her, but nothing is returning your call.
Travis: Yeah, let's step out of the range, see what happens.
Laura: Can we back out and see how far the range goes? Is it the same distance as our ziggurat?
Matt: So, you drag a body, you said?
Laura: Yeah, one of the bodies.
Travis: Which one, the dark paladin?
Liam: Yeah, that asshole.
Matt: So, you take the black guard, drag it behind you. The rest of you all continue down the pathway. You get to about where that T-intersection was and Pike, your brain goes numb once more.
Ashley: (laughing) No!
Marisha: Keyleth goes over to Pike and puts her palm on her head and casts Greater Restoration.
Matt: The spell immediately loses its hold and you regain control of your facilities.
Ashley: Disaster averted, Keyleth. I throw my arms around her and I kiss her on the forehead, on the cheek.
Laura: Just full on her lips.
Ashley: Sorry, I'm just so intense.
Marisha: The amount you've saved us. It's nothing. I've learned it from you.
Ashley: Okay, do we need to talk to this dead person?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: No.
Travis: What? We don't need to talk to this dead person?
Marisha: Sorry, I was answering a different question. Continue.
Travis: Do it.
Ashley: I'll cast Speak with Dead.
Matt: Speak with Dead. You watch the plate armor rouse ever so slightly as the fresh corpse begins to clink and tense against the metal plates. You hear the creaking sound of breath trying to escape from the reedy thin slit where, apparently, part of the dagger blow that you had shoved in the back of its neck went through and cut part of the vocal cards.
Laura: Eww! Fucking gross!
Matt: You have its attention.
Ashley: Is this one of the ones where his eye is missing, is he one of those guys?
Matt: As you glance closer to the black guard, because the helmet's still on, you'd have to pull the helmet off.
Ashley: He's the guy with the-- yeah. Pull it off for sure.
Matt: Pull the helmet off-- it's missing its eye.
Sam: By the way, while this is going on, I'm dragging Doty out.
Matt: Okay. (creaking)
Laura: I help. Trinket helps, too, because he's stronger.
Ashley: Okay, what do we want to know?
Matt: Five questions.
Ashley: Why an eye is missing?
Travis: How they access the gate.
Taliesin: What is it?
Liam: You've got five?
Ashley: Five.
Liam: Is the gate safe for us to travel?
Ashley: Who do you work for? Okay. Is it safe for any of us to get through the gate?
Matt: You can see the lips are curled back against the teeth and the skin is stretched tight against the skull. While once living, this had some sort of necrotic twisting to its flesh, whether it be by proximity or practice. But the jaws open. (gasping) Through the jaw doesn't move, you hear the escaping thin air forming words that say, "You need one of the crafted stones to pass unharmed."
Laura: Or the blade, the sphere!
Matt: (gasping) "Or be hearty enough to survive its ravishing doorway."
Ashley: Who do you serve?
Matt: "We are the Remnants. Small parts of the whole, given purpose to come together and remake the vessel of the Undying King."
Ashley: Why do you have one eye missing?
Matt: "To bequeath ourselves of the highest Remnant order to the Whispered One is to gift our sight like he did. Be granted knowledge he keeps."
Laura: There's only two more questions left.
Liam: Suggestion. How did Ripley return--
Laura: Not Ripley. Delilah.
Liam: That's what I meant to say. Delilah.
Ashley: Was that Delilah?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah.
Liam: How did Delilah return?
Ashley: I have one job!
Laura: It's stupid!
Ashley: How did Delilah return?
Matt: "I know not the means. But she is a powerful necromancer, and with the right preparation, even death can be averted."
Ashley: What did you say?
Laura: Or, do they have plans to attack through the orbs? Or how many orbs are there on this plane?
Liam: He didn't know the answer to the last one. So he might not know the answer.
Laura: Yeah, are there plans to come through the orbs?
Ashley: Yeah, that's a great one.
Liam: Is there anything that Delilah is afraid of?
Laura: Nah, he wouldn't know that.
Ashley: What are your plans? What are The Remnants' plans?
Matt: The whisper becomes a slight chuckle. (chuckling) "His return is nigh. The Whispered One will come. His acolytes will help him complete his destiny through the Ritual of Seeding. From within the gate he will rise, the solitary tyrant and lord of Exandria. And with the sole crown of creation guarded upon his head, we who were his body will be rewarded with life eternal at his side." (gasping) And the spell fades.
Taliesin: Did he not have one more?
Matt: That was five questions.
Laura: Great.
Matt: As you sit here in the cavern, contemplating what these words mean, what the next step of your accelerated involvement in this plot, we're going to end tonight's episode. Ran a little over, guys; hundredth episode, that's a record.
Marisha: What time is it? 12 41! Oh my god!
Liam: 12 41?!
Laura: Is that the longest we've ever gone?
Matt: Holy shit. For those who are still here, hanging out, thank you for staying! For those who aren't, enjoy your two-parter!
Marisha: A lot to unpack, there.
Taliesin: Tune in next week for a shopping episode.
Laura: Yeah, for sure.
Taliesin: Critical Role goes to the beach.
Liam: Scanlan, Taryon. Wow.
Taliesin: Doty.
Marisha: The eight characters on this side of the table.
Matt: Yeah, seriously. Dude, thank you again, Jon, for joining us! (cheering)
Matt: Thank you guys so much for watching. Thank you for being part of our hundredth episode.
Laura: Thank you, Marvel Puzzle Quest!
Matt: Thank you, Marvel Puzzle Quest for being our amazing sponsor. Thank you, Critters, for being amazing. I'm going to get my, like, four hours of sleep before getting on a plane to a convention. So I'll see you guys in Texas!
Liam: Real soon.
Matt: Yep. Anyway, love you all. Have a wonderful night, and is it Thursday yet? Good night! [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons at the same table. Thank you so much for your patience. As mentioned last week, we're adjusting and changing and updating things and taking your feedback and our feedback, and everyone's been working really hard to make this set progressively better and better to make it a better experience. This is our first time all at the same table since the home game. (cheering)
Matt: But no, seriously, don't do that. That's okay.
Marisha: Still in front of a green screen.
Matt: Still in front of a green screen. Totally. Thank you guys so much for being patient. We are up now, and let's dive into the announcements for the evening. We don't have a whole lot this week, but we have, let's see. Any updates as far as the merch is concerned?
Laura: The merchandises? Well, you know, we do have that amazing David Mack poster.
Sam: But I thought that was only a limited-release item, Laura.
Laura: It is, actually, but it's available for three more weeks. The signed version is available for two more weeks. And since it is a limited-time release thing, if you know anybody that watches the show but is maybe way behind and they're not watching live, it would probably be nice to let them know about it, because I still get some messages about the Joe Mad poster that people can't get anymore. So it will be gone after this, so it's nice if they can get it, too. And we have the Scanlan tee, and we have our amazing Slayer's Take aprons. Slayer's Cake aprons.
Sam: Let's talk about the Scanlan t-shirt a little more.
Laura: We have the amazing Scanlan concert tee.
Travis: That asshole? No, we're good.
Laura: And, you know, a bunch of other t-shirts as well, and a whole bunch of other things. Go check out the shop on geekandsundry.com and you'll see all of the merchandise that's available.
Matt: All right, cool. Also, a reminder, guys, the Tal'Dorei campaign guide's coming out at GenCon in August. Pre-orders go up, I believe, mid-July, and I think if you pre-order it, I think it's like five extra bucks or something like that, you get the PDF download immediately. All the information is on Green Ronin's website, so go check it out if you have any questions there, because they can answer them better than I can. I'm steeped in art approvals and everything right now.
Marisha: The art is looking so good!
Matt: It's looking awesome. We've pulled in some-- we've got a lot of community artists that we pushed over towards Green Ronin, so they've been pulling people from the community, which makes me happy, because I want to get as many of you guys involved as possible in this.
Laura: As many of us as possible?
Liam: I can't draw for shit.
Sam: I can do some art.
Matt: I was referring to the community, not you guys.
Travis: Sam's art is really rare.
Matt: Yeah, I've seen it, and it's pretty... yeah. They all wind up looking like genitals. It's crazy. We have the podcast, which is now up. (cheering)
Matt: Audio podcast, for people who want to save their data and listen on long drives.
Laura: Who don't want to look at our faces.
Matt: I don't blame you.
Travis: For no other reason than for those Sam Riegel advertisements at the beginning.
Matt: So we got that. And we have Wednesday Club.
Taliesin: Yeah, Wednesday Club next week. I don't actually know what we're doing, because I haven't looked at the 30-plus messages in that text thread, because I've been working on a thing that I can't talk about yet that's going to be really, really great.
Sam: Taliesin, I feel like most of the time you don't know what you're going to be talking about.
Taliesin: That's true.
Sam: So maybe you should just have a go-to. Like, it's going to be Daredevil again. Or something. Just something.
Taliesin: What are we going to-- yeah, we need a go-to. What was going to be our blanket go-to? I'm not sure.
Travis: Punisher.
Marisha: Great Lakes Avengers
Taliesin: Great Lakes Avengers is actually pretty spectacular. It's hard to say it. Great Lakes Avengers.
Matt: Make a big effort to bring back the What the--?! comics.
Liam: What about the scientology graphic novels?
Taliesin: I haven't read those. Do they have those?
Liam: Well, I'm up to level six. (laughter)
Taliesin: Do you want to be a guest on the show?
Matt: You've almost learned invisibility! Anyway. Apologies to all our scientology fans.
Sam: Yeah, we just lost half the audience.
Matt: All right, so.
Liam: Sea Org uniforms, watching a giant-screen TV of Critical Role. (laughter)
Matt: Exactly. And Signal Boost?
Marisha: Jeff Lewis. We announced it on Tuesday on Talks. Yeah, Jeff Lewis, still Jeff.
Matt: All right, cool. Then, unless we have anything else to announce, let's get into tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back. So, getting us up to speed as to what happened last time. Vox Machina had recently been visited by an old ally, Scanlan Shorthalt, who had spent the past year or so--
Laura: An old ally.
Matt: Yeah. Hey. Building a reputation and a criminal ring in Ank'harel as a forging master in various types of furniture and accoutrements. And upon realizing through the aid of one his hired help, Lionel, or Chud. Chad? Chod. Whatever the various pronunciations were that came through. Discovered that there was a second sphere, apparently on some sort of pyramid-like ziggurat structure not far from Ank'harel. Upon you returning as Scanlan to notify the party, you all made your way to Ank'harel, briefly met with Kaylie, and saw a little bit of the setup that they've been building for the past year or so, and then made your way towards the Smouldercrown Mountains to the southeast of Ank'harel, where apparently this structure resides and this cult, that is apparently sacrificing objects of magical power towards this black sphere. So you made your way to the outskirts of this mountain, discovered that the entrance that was previously there had been collapsed, and discovered a new, carved entrance into the mountain, were beset by a few traps, made your way into a far corner, set up a mansion, and after dealing rather briskly with a cluster of undead that had built up on the outside of your entryway to your magnificent mansion, you made your way to the final chamber where the structure was residing. A number of cultists there were in the process of quickly, hastily throwing these objects to the top and then noticed that you had come as interlopers into this space. At which point you realized the head of cult, at least this group here at the top of the pyramid, was none other, seemingly, than Lady Delilah Briarwood.
All: No, no, no!
Matt: Who then protected herself and two of her cult members beneath the veil of a Prismatic Wall in the shape of a sphere, and you did battle with a number of undead and other cultists and followers of the Whispered One that involved largely just throwing a bunch of them into the ceiling, including yourselves, thanks to a well-placed Reverse Gravity. Scanlan had darted past the Prismatic Wall with a clever use of Dimension Door.
Sam: Should've died.
Matt: Actually, no. Looking at the rules, too. It was a good call to bring it back, in my opinion. But nevertheless, they escaped seemingly into the sphere, Delilah and two of these cultists, after turning it from this glowing white back into its black magic-absorbing self, leaving you all there. Managed to cleanse Pike of her Feeblemind spell, and after acquiring a few of these magical artifacts that were left unbroken, and some cult robes, and apparently symbols of this cult of the Whispered One, you now stand in the middle of this cavern on the outside of where this second Ziggurat exists, deciding what to do next, and what the next step of this journey means for you. So, Vox Machina, what would you like to do?
Laura: What should we do next? What does the next step on this journey mean for us?
Liam: I'm getting wicked deja-vu, brah.
Marisha: That was so existential of you, Vex. Wow.
Laura: No, but really. What should we fucking do? Should we go through it?
Marisha: That was a really meaty spell she had. I've never seen that before.
Ashley: Thank you, Keyleth, for bringing me back.
Sam: I don't know how much time has passed since the fight, but can Taryon cast Revivify on Doty still?
Matt: No, that much time has passed, unfortunately.
Laura: Doty's gone again?
Travis: Did you lose a second one?
Sam: I came back to get him!
Travis: He's like iPhones, they just come out every so often.
Taliesin: The Doty 6 is going to have a much better camera. It's going to have better voice recognition. You're really going to be happy with it.
Matt: You could use the same funds to bring that Doty back, it would just take you the week in reconstruction anyway. But you're not losing that Doty. The other one, you unfortunately lost in the City of Dis, but this can be brought back at the same cost of a new one. So you're not having to reconstruct an entirely new Doty.
Marisha: Recycling.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: But I have to get his body somewhere.
Matt: Yes, you do.
Sam: Great.
Taliesin: I kind of want to collapse this cave.
Travis: With us in it?
Taliesin: No, not with us in it. I don't think we can destroy the ziggurat, but I think we can at least make it extremely difficult to find and get to, and make it very uncomfortable for anything that tries to come through.
Laura: That's true. That would be smart.
Sam: But then we can't come through.
Laura: We have another entrance. We have the one in Whitestone.
Liam: Also, though, this is an exit. Do you want the only exit to be in your basement? The only one? Or are there more of these places?
Sam: Also, does each portal go to the same place, or do they go to different parts?
Taliesin: We saw the spire in both images, correct?
Matt: With the brief glance through the-- Well, the arrow was in the one beneath Whitestone. Through your connecting with Sarenrae, the vision that you received through that portal seemed to be very similar to what Vex described seeing through her arrow.
Laura: It could be the same portal or they could both be within view of the tower.
Taliesin: I'm imagining a circle of spheres.
Marisha: And both seem to suck magic in, correct?
Laura: Yeah, they do the same thing.
Taliesin: I think we'll have an easier time keeping track of what is coming in and out if we just have one to deal with as opposed to two.
Laura: That's assuming there's only two.
Travis: Is it a stupid idea to shoot another Oracle Arrow through this one and see if it looks the same?
Taliesin: I don't know if we have the option.
Laura: I can try, but in Whitestone, there was at least a visual path toward the ball, but I don't think there is one here, is there?
Matt: Not within the radius.
Laura: Not within the magic orb.
Marisha: It's too tight a room?
Liam: I think I like your idea, but I worry that we're upping the odds of-- Listen, we just found out that she's alive, or something. She's going to unleash some sort of fresh hell somewhere. We're upping the odds of it happening under your living room.
Taliesin: I know. It's just, what if it happens in both places at once?
Laura: What if we collapse the one in Whitestone?
Taliesin: It's directly under the castle. We would have to maybe fill it with, I don't know. Submerge it or some such.
Laura: At least try to block off the entrance to where they can't get out.
Marisha: Is there an underground water source near Whitestone?
Taliesin: There's acid pits.
Marisha: We could try and flood it with acid.
Ashley: What if we blocked off that entrance when we go inside?
Taliesin: Let's at least make sure this cave is collapsed. We'll leave the chamber standing, but every entrance to this cave should be collapsed. We know there's three of them.
Laura: What if we block this one, and then we block the one in Whitestone, and then we just--
Sam: Game over!
Laura: I think we win, then, right?
Taliesin: We'll be able to get back in if we need to, we just want to make sure that no one can wander in and out of here without making a bit of a ruckus.
Laura: So there are three entrances that we know of, and we need to block all of them.
Taliesin: One's already blocked.
Sam: And one, do we know where it is?
Laura: There's one up top that we heard about.
Liam: How much time do I have left on my wings? A lot, probably, like a half hour or 40 minutes? It wasn't that long.
Matt: Well, no, actually, because when you used your wings outside, you guys came inside. Did you use your wings during the battle?
Liam: Yeah, I did.
Matt: Did you guys take a long rest?
Taliesin: We did, because we had the mansion.
Matt: You did. So by this conversation happening, the rummaging through the bodies, inspecting the vicinity, I'd say you maybe have 20 more minutes on your wings.
Laura: Oh yeah, did we rummage through the bodies? Let's rummage through those bodies.
Matt: You did, that's how you found the objects.
Marisha: While they rummage, Keyleth wants to test the radius.
Sam: No, we found the objects on that cart.
Matt: That's right, you found them on the cart. You did not actually rummage through the bodies.
Laura: Is there anything on the bodies?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: Whoa, that was high. 23.
Matt: 23, okay. Over the next 15 or so minutes, as you go through and begin to gather the corpses, most of the skeletons out here that have armor on, it's old, rusted, destroyed, broken armor, and the weapons either fell apart in the battle against you or are just barely usable or functional at this point in time. Of the various cultists' bodies, the armor on the black guard that you were battling is a pretty nice-looking set of full plate. You also find similar symbols, these dark iron necklaces that you found on the previous cultists.
Laura: We'll take those. We can take the plate armor if there's room for it in the bag, and then see if it's actually magical outside of the field.
Taliesin: How many of those necklaces have we found?
Matt: Six.
Taliesin: Six necklaces.
Laura: All right, and we already had two, so now all of us have one.
Travis: I can make room in the Bag of Holding for the armor, but I have to get rid of one of these two bodies. Does anybody object if I throw one of the bodies at the little black marble?
Liam: I would kind of like to see that.
Taliesin: Actually, I think that's a pretty good idea, but you have to remove it from the bag before you walk over to the marble.
Travis: I have to what?
Taliesin: You have to remove the body from the bag before you walk over.
Travis: Oh right, okay. So can I walk back to the fork?
Taliesin: Remove them both.
Travis: Back to the fork. I pull out-- both? We only need one.
Taliesin: All right.
Travis: I pull one body out.
Laura: He likes to save his bodies for later.
Travis: Listen, I'll run my store the way I run my store. I pull one body out.
Matt: Which, just as a note, the visual of Grog pulling this body out of the Bag of Holding is much like trying to pull a Slim Jim out of the wrapper. It pulls weird and you have to yank.
Travis: What an analogy. The sausage without the casing.
Matt: Yeah, it's like by sections, and you watch him strain as you pull some out and it folds over. It's just really awkward and awful. But yeah, you manage to get the body out.
Travis: Close the Bag of Holding and I just drag him back over.
Matt: (impacts) Up each step.
Travis: Everybody ready? And a one, and a two, and a (whoosh).
Matt: As you throw it, it impacts, and you watch as the body stops in mid-air from the gravity, stopping where it stands. Its legs fold over, and like a broken physics engine, you watch as the body (crackling) twists, cracks, and gets sucked in.
Laura: Let's not do that. Let's not go through that hole.
Travis: It really doesn't seem that bad.
Taliesin: I kind of want to experiment. Would you mind losing one of the necklaces, or no?
Laura: We can try.
Taliesin: Let's put a necklace on the other cadaver and then throw it through.
Travis: I literally just walked all the way over there and now you want me to go back?
Taliesin: You need the cardio, let's not pretend you don't. We're going to put one of the necklaces on the body and throw it through. It'll still be fun to watch.
Travis: I walk back out of the realm of the thing, pinching my belly fat because apparently Percy thinks I'm a couple pounds heavy.
Laura: It's all that ale, Grog.
Taliesin: I can only mock you on graph paper. I take what I can fucking get, man.
Travis: I'll pull the other Slim Jim out of the bag.
Matt: (suction sound) You place one of the various symbols around its neck and then Babe Ruth-style lob it, and you watch as it gets within a certain proximity, the orb seems to shimmer and shift open ever so slightly. It's similar to what you saw, it opened to a mouthed gateway when Delilah and the other cultists walked through. The body still rattles, and you watch it twist a bit, but it's a far less impactful transition.
Laura: All right, so now we have seven of those things, and we have to get eight of us through.
Taliesin: One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, yes. Somebody will have to stay behind, but we'll figure that out if we go that direction. There's other options.
Sam: Who's the eighth?
Taliesin: You.
Laura: You and you, bitch.
Sam: I live in Ank'harel and I'm a crime boss.
Laura: Yeah, and you're here with us now.
Ashley: You're not planning on going with us?
Sam: I hadn't been invited.
Laura: Scanlan.
Travis: That was pretty-- I mean, from a third party, non-influenced or partial perspective, flipping gravity was pretty cool.
Liam: Plus, he's got a lot of big words now. You want to be around to see them in action.
Marisha: Technically, I can flip gravity. I don't know. I felt like I should put it on the table.
Sam: Oh, okay, see, you don't really need me after all.
Marisha: No, that's not what I meant. I just wanted to be honest.
Laura: I haven't seen you do it.
Marisha: Well, it hasn't been relevant yet.
Liam: You're also really clever. Forget your spells. And funny, and it's good to have you around, so yeah, do you want to go someplace really horrible with your family, or what?
Sam: All right. Are you all offering?
Travis: I don't know, Pike. Can he earn his way back in in this manner?
Ashley: Well, I do think we could use the help.
Sam: The help. Okay, that's good enough for me. I'm in. Will fancy boy be joining us?
Ashley: Are you jealous of him?
Sam: No. He's part of the team.
Ashley: He is part of the team.
Laura: Tary, what do you think?
Sam: Shit! This again!
Liam: Tary, it's up to you, but you were talking about going back.
Sam: I'm sorry, I was busy caring for my deceased robot.
Laura: Is Doty...
Sam: No, he's fine. He'll be fine. I just have to rebuild him. It'll take some time and money, which I don't have.
Ashley: I wish I could help, Tary, but I think that's out of my...
Taliesin: We can get him back to Whitestone, he'll be perfectly fine. We have everything we need there.
Sam: All right. I need him for the brigade!
Taliesin: Of course.
Laura: The brigade, right.
Sam: Yes. But I can't carry him. Grog, would you be able to...
Matt: "I can carry him!" And you look over and Chod goes over and grabs Doty. (grunt) "Should I put him somewhere?"
Sam: Not yet, Chod. Wait until we get somewhere where I can work on it.
Matt: "Okay."
Taliesin: I say we head back to Whitestone. We gather resources, we figure out how we're getting where we're going to get.
Marisha: We could theoretically forge more of these, right? Or do you think they're blessed?
Taliesin: Let's find out. We now know they work.
Liam: I wonder if we could take them to Allura or to Shaun.
Laura: Well, have Tary Identify them. Maybe it's something specific.
Marisha: Yeah, are they magical, Tary? Are these magical?
Sam: Let me look.
Laura: Outside of the field.
Marisha: Outside of the field.
Matt: They are magical. It's a mild enchantment. It's not extremely strong, but it is very specific, and it is more of an attunement to a specific plane. It has something to do with whoever's bearing it, or whatever's wearing it, is already partially crossed to a certain extent, so it limits the impact of the transition.
Sam: Okay. I don't understand any of that. But there you have it.
Laura: Do you have any more Identify left?
Sam: Sure.
Laura: Can we have you Identify the plate armor that the big guy was wearing, so we can see if it's magical?
Sam: I do that.
Matt: Very well. So this is Plate Armor of Resistance to radiant.
Laura: So it's immune to Pike.
Taliesin: It's anti-Pike armor.
Marisha: Well, that kind of clues us in on a lot, actually.
Sam: Chod can't use that, can he?
Matt: Do you ask this question of him?
Sam: Chod, can you use this?
Matt: "Can I have it?"
Sam: I mean, do we need it?
Ashley: Well...
Sam: Do we need it?
Taliesin: Yes, let's not...
Sam: Do we need it?
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: Radiant means all gods or just good gods?
Laura: Just good gods I think.
Taliesin: I would like to put somebody in this armor in Whitestone so that whoever comes through the portal, the first thing they see is something that they feel comfortable and familiar with.
Matt: "Those boots are better than my boots. Can I have the boots?"
Taliesin: Yes. Well, what kind of boots are they?
Matt: It's full armor plate. They're still part of the armor set.
Taliesin: We can get you something else nice. I have a plan for this armor!
Laura: I have so many things. Wait, hold on, Chod. There's-- Oh, Chod! Do you want a jewelry box that makes music?
Ashley: No, you can't give him that jewelry box!
Matt: He leans over to Scanlan. "Hey, boss. Do I want a jewelry box?"
Sam: Yes. Just say yes.
Matt: "Yes, I would love a jewelry box. Thank you."
Laura: Do you? It makes music. You like music.
Matt: "It makes music, do I want it?"
Sam: When a girl offers you something, you just say yes.
Matt: "Yes, please. Take all of it." Now he's carrying the music box and Doty. (laughter)
Laura: I'll mark that off.
Liam: Lionel, I have the perfect thing for you. And I pull out the metal skullcap.
Matt: "That's loud."
Laura: Wait. Wait. Is that the Clarota one?
Liam: No, that's the Lionel Gayheart one. People will have a harder time fucking with you, in general.
Laura: That is the Clarota one, wasn't it? You're giving the Clarota thing, the resistance-to-mind stuff?
Liam: Yes, I am.
Laura: Because we could maybe use that.
Travis: Yeah, there's still an idiot in this group.
Laura: Yeah, there's maybe a Grog in the group that could totally use it!
Liam: I've had this hat for years.
Laura: I know! So maybe you should remember that you have it and give it to fucking Grog!
Liam: I've known that I've had it, and I've talked to him about it. No one's ever asked about it, you've never asked about it.
Laura: I didn't know you had it!
Liam: You are a hoarder. You are many good things--
Laura: No! I'm just saying, if Grog has resistance to mind control, then that would be really good for us in a fight with somebody that's really powerfully--
Liam: Grog. This skullcap that Lionel is wearing requires attunement. Would you like to give up one of your really lethal weapons--
Travis: No. Didn't we talk about this?
Laura: I didn't know it required attunement.
Taliesin: Sense of dignity, perhaps?
Travis: Ooh, hey! Is he heavy? Don't you have your own Bag of Holding?
Matt: "No."
Travis: Oh.
Laura: Not everybody has a Bag of Holding, Grog.
Travis: I'll just give him mine. (laughter)
Laura: We just give him everything.
Taliesin: We would turn on you so fast. Let's get back to Whitestone.
Laura: Okay, okay, okay. How do we collapse these tunnels--
Matt: "You guys can keep putting things on me. That's fine."
Taliesin: Well, we have, thankfully, a professional tunnel collapser.
Laura: Well, that's true!
Travis: Yep. Oh, me?
Taliesin: So let's find the upstairs entrance and get rid of that--
Laura: I'll do that from outside.
Marisha: I was trying to test the radius of this sphere, too. Am I still doing that? Is that still relevant?
Taliesin: Well, it's worth noting just in case we cannot find the opening.
Matt: It comes to about 180 feet from the actual sphere.
Marisha: Wow! That's a long way. It's the same as the other one?
Matt: It's similar from when you originally tested it. It was about the width of the whole chamber underneath Whitestone. And that chamber was more cleared out, more of the actual structure was visible. This one is still partially buried and you're only seeing the upper half of it.
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: Do I even have the ability to fly in here? Is there an outer edge where the magic is not--
Matt: In that chamber, you cannot fly.
Liam: Cannot. Okay.
Laura: And I feel like we're going to run into traps if we try to find it from this way. Maybe find it from the outside and just collapse it.
Taliesin: All right.
Laura: That way we don't have to go through a series of shit.
Taliesin: Let's double-reinforce, just pile-drive the one that's already a little collapsed and make it really collapsed. And then we'll collapse the others while we're leaving.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: (happy grunts) Is that permission?
Taliesin: That is more than permission. That is permission and an audience. We're very excited.
Travis: That's amazing. I'll go for it, and I'll whack on a wall. Do I just hit a wall anywhere?
Laura: Just in the tunnels, maybe?
Sam: Wait. You're an engineer, aren't you?
Taliesin: Yes. No, we're going to be pointing at the things that need to collapse.
Travis: Okay, I'm ready any time.
Laura: Do you want to go up and see if we can find the thing up top?
Marisha: Yeah! Sure! You guys have fun collapsing.
Laura: It's daytime now, right? Outside?
Matt: At this time, it would be. Yes.
Laura: So can me and Keyleth go try to find the entrance up top so we can do something to that one? Matt: Sure, okay.
Travis: Or should we wait 'til we collapse the tunnels?
Taliesin: Well, they can find theirs while we get our tunnels collapsed.
Travis: Yeah, I'm sure it won't fall on me. No big deal.
Ashley: I'm going to help! I'm going to help you.
Travis: Yeah!
Ashley: Yeah.
Marisha: If it falls on you, we can fish you out. Just survive a little bit.
Ashley: Keyleth's got our back. She'll burrow in and pull us out.
Laura: Just earring us if something happens.
Marisha: Badger. Badgers burrow, right? Do badgers burrow?
Liam: They do burrow.
Travis: That's why I said stay, but that's all right!
Matt: (laughs) All righty. So you guys all make your way back to the second entrance, the hidden, illusory one. You all back out of it, leaving just Pike and Grog on the inside.
Taliesin: And we're helping them figure out where to punch to make everything--
Matt: Okay, cool. So I need you to go ahead and make an investigation check.
Taliesin: All right.
Matt: And you can assist him, which gives him advantage.
Sam: Ah. I will assist you.
Taliesin: Thank you. Oh, yes. That's excellent. It's a 19. (laughter)
Matt: Total of 19? Okay. Halfway through the hallway, you find the place where the initial collapse was started. Or you start looking to see what they used to destroy the first entrance that you were supposed to come through. You can see the way it's carved, designed, especially the smooth entrance. Which, now that you get a better look at it, that soft, spongy ground, that dust you were finding: you begin to recognize the pattern of what carved its way in. You saw it used at the top of the Emberhold when you were fighting the queen there. It was a series of Disintegration rays used to carve away into this mountain. That's what that dust is that's on the ground. And why it's such a smooth entrance on this side.
Marisha: But I rolled so shitty on that nature check before, right?
Matt: Mm-hm. However, because it was just a series of magic Disintegrations pushed through to create this second opening, it's a little harder to find points in the structure where the weakness is. So you begin to cut away at some areas, you get like a small axe or one of the various objects that you've-- pointed objects that you've acquired over the--
Travis: I do have just a regular pickaxe.
Matt: Yeah. And you just hit at some areas, and you do find one section where you would think it would be a relatively weak point of impact between the various rocks and stones that hold this up.
Taliesin: Hit this and stand on this side of it, and that should do some intense damage.
Matt: You would recommend hitting it and then running.
Taliesin: And run in this direction. (laughter)
Travis: Okay, Pike.
Ashley: Yeah.
Travis: I want you to warm up this spot for me, and then you're going to jump on my back and then I'm going to hit it.
Ashley: Okay. I jump on your back now?
Travis: No, no, you hit it.
Ashley: Like a backpack?
Travis: Yeah, and then you can come up on my back.
Ashley: Oh, I hit it.
Liam: Do we jump on three, or is it one, two, three, go?
Matt: Pike. Go ahead and make a strength check, as Grog throws you up to the ceiling to where the one place in the rock structure is.
Ashley: Yeah boi.
Travis: Ready to run, just in case she just goes beast mode.
Marisha: We should make little Pike backpacks.
Laura: Oh my gosh, how cute would that be?
Sam: With, like, Ashley's face right here. (laughter)
Ashley: No, guys, that doesn't need to be anywhere.
Liam: We'll just repurpose those Yoda bags.
Ashley: 13.
Matt: 13? Okay, so you take her and you alley-oop and you (impact) hit it and you watch it (cracking) and some dust falls and settles. A couple of small pebbles (falling pebbles). And you grab her like, oh! Okay, seems okay for now.
Travis: All right. Get on, Yoda.
Ashley: I try to wrap my legs around, but they don't go.
Travis: I rage first.
Marisha: Just her but with, like, a jockey on a horse. (straining)
Matt: Okay, so it just happens naturally. So go ahead and roll a strength check with advantage.
Marisha: Those gnomish thighs.
Travis: 23.
Matt: 23. So for the height of the cavern here, you get yourself a nice-- you crouch low and full shoryuken-style, like (impact) punch into the roof and as you hit it, impact and go clean through and bring it to the ground. Land, and you hear the (crumbling).
Taliesin: All right, run.
Matt: You guys start bolting through, and as you're rushing, Pike, you're looking over and you can see the walls (impacts). You guys are bolting out as well. Both of you guys go ahead and make dexterity saving throws, please.
Travis: I forgot we had to roll for this part.
Ashley: Me too.
Travis: I got advantage.
Laura: Oh god, don't drop Pikeys.
Travis: Oh, that's good.
Ashley: Okay okay, 16.
Travis: 20. No-- 18.
Matt: Okay, so as you guys are bolting, you're holding onto Grog, and you manage to look behind just fast enough to see one of the walls is about to full-on collapse at the side, and you go ahead and grab the side of Grog's ear and yank his vision that way.
Travis: (groan)
Ashley: Just going to start kicking him in the side.
Matt: He starts turning off to that side, and you manage to just avoid that side of the wall as it (impact).
Sam: Gif it! Gif it! (laughter)
Matt: So you start steering him from behind like a prized racehorse, and making your way through this cavern until eventually the back half of the cavern collapses and comes to a rest. The front half is not collapsing, but you do-- you have a large portion of the path leading to the ziggurat is now just rubble and rocks.
Ashley: Okay, okay, okay! Good job!
Travis: Nice job!
Taliesin: Well done, well done.
Ashley: We're getting somewhere. But we still need-- there's still more to do?
Laura: Yeah, there's that whole other path. There's that whole-- there's that whole other path and then the one up top.
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: But I could hear a rumble so I know you guys did good on one of those paths already.
Ashley: Thanks! We did pretty good.
Matt: Okay. The rest of it is fairly easy to do because you find the closer you get to the entrance, based on the previous collapsing, elements of it have started to show cracks, like the actual weight, because it was just a smooth transition there. There was no load-bearing platforms or any sort of general structure to the interior of this cavern. So you guys manage to pummel your way out, a large spinning punch on this side and this side as you're rushing out, and as you do (impacts) you hear it slamming and hitting the ground behind you until you guys emerge through. It looks like you're running straight at a wall because the illusory wall is still there, but you both just out the other side. Immediate hot daylight hits you, the blaring sun of the Marquet sky. Clear blue sky, no clouds. You're now surrounded by a series of browned and leafless trees with these large canopies that have the same pear-like fruit hanging from the branches.
Travis: Fruit? Fruit?
Matt: Looks like fruit.
Travis: Are you hungry?
Ashley: I'm hungry!
Travis: Hold on. I hold up Pike to go grab some fruit.
Ashley: We'll check it!
Travis: Don't worry, it's just fruit.
Matt: Make a nature check.
Liam: She can cure us of poison.
Taliesin: Not if she's busy dying from both ends.
Laura: (retching) The spins.
Ashley: Six.
Matt: It's hard to tell, but it looks really tasty.
Travis: Yeah, I got great nature skills! Five.
Matt: So. Looks tasty.
Ashley: You know what, Grog?
Travis: What?
Ashley: As hungry as I am, I think we should wait to have Keyleth look at this fruit.
Travis: Why? It's just fruit!
Ashley: Because it's outside of this cave, and what if it's a distraction like, "Oh, lookit!" and you eat it and you just die?
Travis: You know, I've found if fruit, when it goes bad, falls from the tree, and it's still on it! Therefore!
Ashley: And when fruit goes bad, it turns into wine!
Travis: You get crunk drunk!
Ashley: I think I'm going to wait for Keyleth.
Travis: I'm going to have a bite.
Matt: Okay. You take a bite and it's got a fairly moist center. You can see now, like a cactus, the fruits here, most of the moisture is retained within these fruit elements. The flavor, it's not sweet, it's quite pungent, actually. It has a bitterness to it. It's like putting your tongue in a bunch of lye.
Ashley: Does it taste good?
Travis: (disgusted noises)
Ashley: Maybe make some mayonnaise or something? Want some mayonnaise to cleanse your palate?
Travis: I take out the jug and I go  honey! Hey!
Ashley: Oh, all right!
Laura: Just a couple of sticky warriors.
Ashley: No, Grog!
Matt: Just as a breeze blows a bit of a dust cloud through, which coats your sticky hands with heavy desert sand. You chew for a minute and feel the crunch of granules inside your mouth where you inhaled. (crunching)
Travis: Jug goes away.
Matt: Back to you guys. You were looking for the other entrance?
Laura: Yeah, up top.
Matt: Investigation check.
Laura: Both of us are looking for it. We're flying up. Can you fly? So, we can fly up. I was going to help you look for it because I figure you have a better ability to collapse it than I do.
Liam: What form are you going to take?
Laura: A goldfish!
Marisha: You could hold me in your hands. I've got about 30 seconds. Just to fly up? Can I ride side-saddle with you?
Laura: Of course you can, yes! Put your arms around me, Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay! Your abs are nice, Vex!
Laura: I know, I work out a lot.
Marisha: Have you been working out over the past year? Wow.
Matt: So, who's helming the investigation of this? And you're aiding her, so go ahead and take it with advantage.
Laura: Same thing. 21.
Matt: All righty. I left on my collapsing music.
Travis: They die.
Matt: So, as you glance around and do a pass over the next 20 minutes or so. It's as fast as you can, but it takes you a while to scan and get a feel for it. You do see what looks to be, because you felt the wind was coming through from the interior, you see a small well-like crevasse where the rocks have collapsed inward. You can see, glancing over the top, the dark, five, six-foot-wide hole that leads deeper into the mountain.
Laura: I hover down near it, but don't get off the broom.
Marisha: I lean over, I Druidcraft a pebble, toss it in the hole.
Matt: Don't hear it.
Laura: Oracle arrow down the hole.
Matt: Okay! Your vision watches as it--
Laura: Oh, wait! Can she set the end of it on fire?
Marisha: Yeah!
Matt: Okay, the arrow now, burning, it leads you into this dark space. It lights up the interior. The arrow gets about maybe 60 feet before it hits a rock and shatters.
Laura: Aww.
Matt: It's not straight down. It has a series of platforms, and it looks like it was designed to be climbed down, so it's a bit zig-zaggy. It maybe went 50, 60 feet and it hits a platform and shatters. You lose your vision. But it does appear to be a sizable tunnel used for entry.
Laura: Let's just fucking collapse it.
Marisha: All right!
Laura: Well, just you fucking collapse because I can't do shit to this thing.
Marisha: Can I be like, all right! I want to see if I can do this, like, cool maneuver. I'm going to try to balance on the broom, and then jump off the broom and go Keyteor and go into the--
Laura: Into it, into it?! Or just around it so you collapse the--
Marisha: Nah!
Laura: Oh, god, Keyleth!
Matt: You watch as she leaps and-- cloud of dust. There is no sign she impacted, she's just gone. You just see the side of the mountain.
Laura: Fuck! Fuck! I get out the rope of entanglement and hover close to the surface and start hanging the rope down.
Matt: You glance in the inside with what little bit of daylight is ricocheting off of the stone interior. You can see the edges of Keyleth's elemental form swimming through the rock. Because she can do that.
Laura: That's fucking crazy.
Marisha: It's like Whac-A-Mole!
Laura: Careful of traps, though, Keyleth, because I'm sure there's something in there.
Marisha: All right.
Taliesin: How's it going down there? Have you found it yet?
Laura: Up here?
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: Fabulous. Our friend, Keyleth, is amazing.
Taliesin: She jumped in, didn't she?
Laura: Yes, she did.
Marisha: I'm going to Earth Glide to the bottom and then peek my earthy face out of the top, see if I can see down.
Matt: Are you following the actual path?
Marisha: Yeah. I'll try to be conscious to make sure I don't hit anything that looks precarious.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: Don't hit any traps!
Marisha: All right! Looking for traps! That's okay, 15.
Matt: 15. Okay. You get about a third of the way down, and you realize that one of the platforms that you can land on has, uncharacteristically, a softer cushion to it. Everything else is just stone slabs. This one has almost--
Sam: Waterbed.
Matt: Yeah! (laughs) Like a spring air mattress, it's crazy. No, it's like a woven, dried palm frond-like cloth that's rested over it.
Sam: I'm sure it's nothing. Probably nothing. Just leave it.
Marisha: Just a drop-through? Can I, like-- fuck.
Laura: Don't fuck with anything, Keyleth. Just collapse it!
Marisha: I found, like a, it might be a roof or--
Travis: Yeah, I bet Clarota's in there.
Marisha: What? Piranhas? I don't know if piranhas are in rocks, but there might be something else in there. There might be piranhas. Oh, I'll avoid it.
Matt: Okay. You continue southward, scooting. You can sense the very exterior of the wall that leads to this path, so you're staying away from it as you glide through the rock and earth. Eventually, you come close to the very top, breaching the dome that leads down into the chamber where you had your battle naught but an hour ago. As you poke your face through, you're looking down, you can see the dark sphere there, hovering. You can see the large pyramid structure below it, probably about 60 feet below you. You can see the entrance to the tunnel that leads into here. There is a small ladder up along the wall that previously you didn't notice because of the lack of light and attention to the ceiling portion. But people were either climbing up into or climbing down from.
Laura: What do you see, Keyleth?
Marisha: There's a ladder, man, there's some very innovative people. Yeah, these are very innovative cultists.
Laura: Wait, you're looking down at the ziggurat?
Marisha: Yeah! Hey, Pike and Grog, you guys did an excellent job.
Ashley: Oh thanks!
Travis: Oh thanks!
Travis: It really means a lot.
Laura: Get the fuck away from it, Keyleth!
Marisha: Okay! Good idea!
Matt: By the way, it's fantastic. You all hear through it (earth elemental grumbling).
Travis: Oh, right, yeah!
Matt: The grumbling, low voice of an earth elemental speaking to you through the earring.
Laura: We still don't know how far that field goes. If you turn into Keyleth again, you're fucked!
Marisha: (unintelligible grumbling)
Laura: Get the fuck out!
Marisha: I try and say, like, well, I know it's about 180 feet because I tested before, so I'm trying to be conscious of it. And then I back up a little bit, and I go over to where that tunnel was, and I start collapsing it down. As I work my way up, I'm going (impacts).
Matt: Easily enough. You go by and you start kicking through the tunnel as you go. You can sense near proximity where any of the various weak points are in the stone. Systematically go through it, collapse it, piece by piece, until eventually most of the tunnel is useless and unusable.
Marisha: It's like a platformer.
Matt: How long can you maintain your wild shape?
Marisha: Half of my level, or something like that?
Matt: Oh, you're fine, then.
Marisha: Or it's a third of my level? Still several hours.
Matt: You emerge a little over an hour or so of doing this. You emerge from the top. You watch as Keyleth (rock impacts), looking like a large version of Fantastic Four's Thing.
Laura: I'm holding my rope for her. You don't-- okay.
Matt: It appears to be taken care of. All of the entrances have been collapsed. There's no way that you can imagine any average person can find their way into this.
Laura: Good job. Are you going to stay that way, or are you turning back into you so that I can get you on the broom?
Marisha: (guttural noise of agreement) (laughter)
Laura: You can still talk, right? You just sound low.
Travis: No.
Marisha: (guttural gibberish) I speak a different language that I still don't think anyone has--
Matt: You can-- you maintain your mental acuity and statistics when you're in there.
Marisha: I don't know. We've gone back and forth on it!
Taliesin: It never occurred to you to speak Common. Why would I do that?
Matt: The texture and timbre of your voice. You can hear words, but it's almost like words being made by slamming rocks together.
Laura: Crazy.
Marisha: Not that different from my normal speech.
Liam: I won't bore you with the details, but while all that was going on, while they were searching and they were destroying things, Vax wandered a hundred feet out and sat down and did a little talking to the mother of ravens, and basically said, not expecting an answer: This is it, isn't it?
Matt: Make a wisdom check.
All: Ooh.
Liam: Not good. 13.
Matt: 13? That's enough. As you sit there in silence with your eyes closed, beseeching the attention of your patron, which seemingly wasn't present when you attempted to in the proximity of this doorway. The familiar soft, omnipresent voice creeps into your psyche as she tells you, "It seems that the bender of fate is feeling the tug of destiny. It's almost as if you're coming towards me. If you sense this path is the right one, follow your instincts. Perhaps we'll meet soon enough."
Liam: I will see you soon.
Matt: All right. So you guys reconvene.
Laura: Hey, guys. How's it going?
Liam: Hey, guys!
Laura: What should we do?
Travis: You should try the local fruit. It's delicious.
Ashley: Yeah, you guys should try it.
Taliesin: I pick up a piece of the local fruit and smell it.
Matt: How do I describe the smell? It's reminiscent of discovering old lemon juice that has grown sticky on a surface, like a dark mahogany wood surface. Kind of like a bar floor. We'll go with that.
Taliesin: No, I don't think I will.
Travis: It belies its true flavor.
Taliesin: I don't think it does.
Marisha: This looks like it's rotten from the landscape. It looks like it's all gone bad. Has it gone bad?
Matt: Make a nature check.
Travis: Oh, great.
Marisha: 25.
Matt: No. There are elements that have gone bad on the ground and have been covered by sand as winds blow through.
Taliesin: Naturally awful.
Matt: It's like desert noni. It's extremely healthy and has a lot of practical medicinal use. In fact, it's traded specifically for its use in various herb pouches.
Marisha: Does it have a name?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Like that giant, stinking flower. Grog took a bite of the giant, stinking flower.
Matt: A vafall fruit.
Marisha: A what?
Taliesin: Did it alter Grog's stats on any level?
Matt: No.
Taliesin: Then it's not that healthy, is it? It's like agave.
Marisha: Vafall?
Matt: Listen to Sam. He's got the pronunciation.
Liam: I will eat you with a lovely chianti and some vafall.
All: Vafall.
Ashley: Should we take some, then?
Laura: Make some medicine?
Taliesin: You could try to bake with it. Maybe it's bakeable.
Marisha: It makes a really good salve. It's good for sunburns.
Liam: Or shoving in somebody's bed.
Travis: How do we get back to Whitestone?
Taliesin: Is there a tree that this fruit was coming off of?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: I point at the tree.
Matt: The ones on the outskirts of the mountain range are small, but the deeper into the valleys and ravines between the large spire-like mountains, you do find a few that are probably large enough to utilize through your spell.
Marisha: Yeah, I can do that.
Laura: Tary, are you coming back to Whitestone?
Sam: I have to, yes. I have to repair Doty, and also find some new recruits. I think there are some in Whitestone, right?
Taliesin: You're really going through with this?
Sam: Of course. It's my destiny. I met you all to become an adventurer, and now I'm bringing my knowledge back to my people. It's like it was written in a book.
Laura: A very good book.
Travis: Yeah, you're writing a book!
Sam: I am.
Ashley: And not only that, you're going to be the leader of a band of adventurers.
Travis: Are you a colonel, a general, a private?
Sam: I hadn't thought of that. You know what? There's no leader of Vox Machina, so maybe there won't be in the Darrington Brigade. Well, besides you. You're unofficially-- you're definitely the treasurer.
Liam: I'm behind her doing this.
Travis: Yeah, rolling eyes.
Laura: Lionel?
Matt: His mouth is filled with fruit. (laughter)
Laura: Is it good? How are you doing?
Matt: "It's getting really heavy. This is really heavy."
Laura: Yeah. Are you coming back to Whitestone, as well? Scanlan, I mean Aes-- is he coming back?
Sam: I suppose we'll need him for now, yes.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: I still like the idea of perhaps the two of you working together. You could talk to Scanlan about it and see if he'd be all right-- (laughter)
Taliesin: I'm never going to get bored of this. I'm never going to get bored of this!
Liam: Scanlan, what do you think?
Travis: That was a fucking awesome physical reaction.
Liam: At least in the short term.
Sam: You're suggesting that I, Scanlan Shorthalt, bequeath my employee Chod to this gentleman here? You mean me, Taryon Darrington? You mean Chod could join my brigade? Well, yes. I guess that's what they're talking about. Well, I don't see why not. He's very capable and strong. Yes, and I won't have much use for him for a while, so if you'd like to take him with your brigade, you can. Well, I'm not going to say no to a fellow member of Vox Machina now, am I? No, you're not. No, I'm not.
Travis: Yes.
Matt: "I don't see any similarities." (laughter)
Taliesin: That's everything I wanted. I'm good.
Laura: Through the tree, then?
Marisha: Through the tree.
Matt: All right, so as you finish concentrating on the outside of one of these large, 15 to 20-foot-tall, leafless, fruit-bearing trees in the center of the Smoldercrown Forest, the doorway shifts open, revealing on the opposite side the dark, sunless night of Whitestone.
Marisha: I pick a blossom from the tree on the way out.
Liam: I pull two of the fruits.
Matt: Okay. You guys arrive. It's early evening. You can see the windows of nearby homes, shops, and various structures near the square are beginning to glow from the interior light of small lanterns and candles. In the distance, you can see the perimeter beacons being put along the castle walls on the exterior of Castle Whitestone. You're back home.
Laura: Let's gather our troops.
Taliesin: Make thy way to the castle.
Laura: Find out what they've learned.
Matt: All right. At which point, Lionel keeps asking, "Can I put him down yet? Can I put him down?"
Sam: Not quite yet.
Taliesin: We're going to take him to the castle.
Sam: Change arms.
Matt: "Ooh! That helps a lot." You make your way to the castle. Doty's delivered to the workshop. Taryon?
Sam: Stays there.
Matt: Okay. (laughter)
Taliesin: We'll keep you informed.
Sam: Thank you.
Matt: All right, so you guys now have the run of the castle. What do you wish to do?
Laura: We asked Cassandra to gather people to study the Shadowfell as soon as we did the oracle arrow last time, so it would probably be smart to find out what they've learned before we make our plans.
Matt: Okay. As you approach Cassandra, at this hour, she currently has a recently steeped, still-steaming cup of tea resting on the table, towards the window side, the front window side, of the general dining hall area of the castle where you usually eat your supper. She's facing away from the table and has a thick robe over her and has the tea and is in the process of reading through books. Her hair's pulled up tightly, and some of it's a mess in front of her face. She's very much in work mode. She's poring through books, and as soon as you enter, she reaches over for her cup of tea. "Oh. Hello, everyone." She gets herself a little more presentable. "I've got the assistance of Eskil Ryndarien. Everyone else seems to be a bit busy at the moment, but Allura is doing the best she can research on her end, as well."
Taliesin: We're going to need everybody. It's worse than we could have imagined.
Laura: And we have far less time than we would have imagined.
Matt: "How much time do we have?"
Taliesin: This has to be taken care of immediately.
Liam: Things are happening now.
Matt: "Well, you have far better means of acquiring these people than I do. I can merely send missives and requests."
Taliesin: We're going to send word out. I'm going to take out my flask and put it on the table. Sit down for a moment.
Matt: She takes it and adds it to her tea.
Laura: Is Ryndarien here?
Matt: "He is. He's currently inspecting the ziggurat again. He's setting his notes up where he previously set up research quarters during the incursion of the Conclave."
Laura: We need to get everyone away from it.
Marisha: Where's Allura?
Matt: "She's in Emon. She's still part of the council there."
Taliesin: We have to get her here immediately.
Liam: Is Gilmore still in town?
Matt: "No, he's back in Emon."
Liam: He left for good?
Laura: I'm going to run down to the ziggurat and try to get Eskil Ryndarien away from it and warn everyone to stay away from it.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Let's double-check that armor for any weird influences it may have, to make sure it is what it seems to be, which is ornamental, with a bit of magic. Let's make sure that the captain of whatever guard is on shift down by the ziggurat is wearing it, and is aware that he's there to befuddle the enemy.
Matt: Okay. You make your way down there, and you can see it's still fairly dark in that chamber. Most of the lights have been snuffed except for a few torches that are set around the central platform that was built about mid-height on the ziggurat, where you guys had the council meeting with Raishan that one time, and where most of the research is being done there. Up top, you see a number of guards, the Pale Guard are assigned to keep watch. You see Jecht, the manservant of the Realmseer Eskil there, as well. Currently, you see Eskil Ryndarien is spreading out his thick scrolls and books, and they're all across the big central wooden table, and he has his thick spectacles on, and he has a number of candles already set up, and he's deep into getting his space prepped and acquiring whatever information he'd put away since the investigation was put on hold.
Laura: Eskil?
Matt: "Yes? Oh, it has been some time, Lady Vex'ahlia. I've heard you've come up in the world."
Laura: Oh, yes. I'm a lady now.
Matt: "Wondrous. Yes. What do I have the honor?"
Laura: Well, I hate to be the bearer of bad news, but I'm afraid being down here isn't safe anymore.
Matt: "Right, so you brought me all the way out here, and now I can't do my work? That's great. No, that's par for the course. It's basically most of my life."
Laura: Plenty of work up top, away from this orb of death. It's very dangerous.
Matt: "Oh! You're right. I didn't know that. I've only spent six months with the thing!"
Laura: We've discovered it's a gateway, and things can come through it, and there might be armies coming through because we just fought somebody on the other side of another ziggurat.
Matt: "That's preposterous. Siphons only work one way, my dear. Nothing's coming through there."
Laura: She changed it. Did you know that siphons can be changed? It changed from one color to another.
Matt: "You know this how?"
Laura: Because I was there to witness it.
Matt: "What, here?"
Laura: In Ank'harel. And it looks the exact same as this one.
Matt: He looks you over really intensely. "If what you believe you saw is indeed another one of these siphons, then perhaps we should take a little more care."
Laura: I agree.
Matt: "Jecht, please continue. Gather everything. We're taking this outside."
Laura: Fabulous. You're so agreeable. I do love talking to you.
Matt: "Wonderful. Good to know. Goodbye." They gather up the materials. The Pale Guard escorts them back into the hallway, and he's now talking to Jecht off on the side. He goes, "Well, then we can go ahead and stage ourselves in the grand guestroom with the nice big bed. Yes?"
Laura: The big ornate bed.
Matt: He looks over his shoulder as you say this. "Oh, you're eavesdropping now, as well. That's wondrous."
Laura: I have wonderful hearing.
Matt: "So I can tell. Yes, the big bed. The one that helps with my back."
Laura: Yes, that's terrible. Can you look at this armor really fast and make sure that it's not actually cursed or anything?
Matt: "Looks fine to me!" Keeps walking.
Laura: Was it cursed, or anything, when you looked at it?
Sam: I don't know.
Matt: Did not appear to be cursed from your glance at it.
Laura: Would he have known from the Identify spell if it was cursed? Great. Well.
Marisha: Can Keyleth go talk to Percy?
Taliesin: I'm in Cassandra's room, still.
Marisha: Keyleth waits for Percy. Hang on. I can go talk with Cassandra, as well.
Matt: Unless you're having a closed conversation.
Taliesin: Just ten seconds of it. We'll see how this goes. Have a bit of that flask.
Matt: She's already poured some into her tea.
Taliesin: We've found a second ziggurat. We found a cult that is moving things through it. The cult was being led by Delilah Briarwood.
Matt: The silence, the stark absence of sound, is completely sundered by the sound of shattering porcelainware. The tea that she had recently barely sipped on is now shattered and spilled across the ground. She stands there, her hand open as it slowly curls back. She stares off into the distance, clenching her fist very tightly.
Taliesin: She escaped into the ziggurat, so she's no longer on this plane of existence, but some form of her, whether it's undead or otherwise, we're going to need to put it down again.
Matt: "Yes, we do."
Taliesin: I wanted you to hear it from me. There will be no running this time.
Matt: "No running."
Taliesin: Not from me.
Matt: "But you'll take care of her?"
Taliesin: This is the end of her. I will be there to see it.
Matt: "She's escaped death once already. Who knows how many times she has before. You have to end it."
Taliesin: We will discover what she did.
Matt: "Don't destroy her body. Destroy everything she is."
Taliesin: If we can't kill her, we will entrap her forever.
Matt: "Shatter the soul. Whatever it takes. End her, brother."
Taliesin: I know. I shall.
Matt: She takes the flask.
Taliesin: I wanted you to hear it from me so you could compose yourself when other people begin to tell you.
Matt: "I need a moment alone, please."
Taliesin: They're going to need us to be the strongest. I have faith in you. I'll leave you to it. I'm so sorry.
Matt: "I'm going to be sick."
Taliesin: Yes. I'm going to leave her to her room and shut the door.
Matt: You close the door and there in the hallway, waiting opposite the door, is Keyleth.
Taliesin: Hi.
Marisha: How did that go?
Taliesin: Honestly, better than I expected.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: At which point, you hear behind the door, a muffled (retching).
Taliesin: More sick and less things breaking. I'd rather her be sick than angry.
Marisha: You think? I hate being sick. Anger at least drives you towards something.
Taliesin: It does not drive de Rolos towards anything good.
Marisha: Fair point. I have a crazy thought, and I needed to run by you. Sorry, didn't mean to hit you. Okay. I'm excited. All right. We watched the orb change. She changed the magic in the orb, right? We just spent a year making magical orbs that change in some way, that are all linked to our city. Clearly, not as powerful as what this is.
Taliesin: No, not at all.
Marisha: But what if-- I don't know. What if she corrupted something that was already there that wasn't supposed to be corrupted? What if she can corrupt more things, like our crisis orbs? I had this immediate fear that what if I built something that was supposed to help--
Taliesin: I'm so glad you thought of me when this came up.
Marisha: Well, you helped me build it. Am I crazy for thinking it? Am I totally off base?
Taliesin: I think we're going to be walking a very fine line of paranoia for the next however long.
Marisha: Maybe there's something in our own technology, in our own magic, that can help inform us. I don't know.
Taliesin: When they get here, we're going to look at everything.
Marisha: All right. We'll sleep on it.
Taliesin: I think we're going to be fine, but you did give me some ideas that I'm going to think about.
Marisha: And those symbols. The necklaces. Druids, we use similar things when we plane shift to other worlds.
Taliesin: I'm going to take one to the library and inspect it. I'm going to also see what any of our other arcanists think of it. If it's from a cult that anybody has heard of before.
Marisha: I think I can plane shift us there with it if we don't want to go through the orb.
Taliesin: Really?
Marisha: I think. It seems like very similar technology. Magic.
Taliesin: I'm rubbing off on you.
Marisha: Yeah. I don't know. Sleep on it. I'm going to go think.
Taliesin: I have no idea what just happened. Yeah. I'm going to double-check the orb room just for a moment, for my own paranoia.
Marisha: The crisis orb room? Actually, I'll go with him.
Taliesin: Just to look, and then I'm going to start researching that symbol. I'm going to go to the library and I'm showing the council everything.
Matt: Okay. You speak with the rest of the standing chamber. You begin to do your research. Make a history check.
Marisha: Oh, that's good! Take it.
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: 22. You've read through most of the books here, between you and JB, who's spent some time also reading quite a bit. There's no mention of the symbol itself, and there's very little information on the Whispered One, on Vecna. It's interesting: there's almost a gap in history. There are subtle mentions of this figure, this once-powerful mage that had begun to look into the secrets of life, prolonging it. The fabric of reality. And then it's just missing from history. And you recall... all the books that would cover that time period, you remember hearing stories from Allura regarding the Whispered One, originally. There's no mention.
Taliesin: Is it a physical omission from the books, or is it even that the books that would cover it are not here? Books that should cover it that don't?
Matt: Books that you feel like should cover it. Historical recalling of Wildmount, which if you recall, based on some of Allura's discussion on the Whispered One's previous existence as a mortal, largely, Vecna's work was done over on the Wildmount side of Exandria.
Taliesin: And there's no--
Marisha: Bitch! Sorry. Go on.
Taliesin: I don't know what's happening over here.
Matt: I don't, either.
Taliesin: There's nothing that's simple. Like, the more I'm looking, I'm looking for mention of the symbols--
Matt: No.
Taliesin: Keyleth, you know damn well where I am right now, I'm sitting in the library reading books, so if you have something to say. Oh, wow, you're going way back.
Marisha: I'm looking. I'll meet you in the library.
Sam: How to Play Pathfinder. (laughter)
Taliesin: Is that Hercules Mulligan?
Marisha: This is a tiny Hercules Mulligan. I was looking for him! He's been in here the whole time.
Liam: Delilah gets knocked out, she gets the fuck back up again!
Taliesin: Four set of corsets.
Matt: He's a barbarian, I think it is. We have to work out the 5e classes for the Hamilton characters. Get on it, Critters.
Taliesin: I'll let everyone know where I am, too. I'm in the library reading if anybody needs me.
Matt: Anyone else wishing to accomplish anything else?
Travis: I'm in the kitchen. I want to see if they can make a salad with meat in it.
Taliesin: If they figure out how, bring some up to the library.
Travis: Okay, I'm not very up to--
Taliesin: Deposit it up.
Matt: Grand Poobah, if this is indeed your request, they will do their very best to do so. Within an hour or so, you are presented with a bowl of various textures of shredded, cured, and prepared meats to loosely resemble a salad, I guess.
Taliesin: A malad!
Matt: It's like a giant poke bowl.
Sam: It's not a salad with meat on it, it's a salad made of meat?
Liam: Thin slices.
Travis: This is far greater than anything I could have hoped for.
Taliesin: Previously, on Hannibal.
Travis: Did you invent this just now?
Matt: You look at the wait staff and they, "Actually, sir, it was Chef Varon." You look over and you see this one, and you've seen a couple of the chefs here, you haven't interfaced with them too much. You're not a social figure necessarily, more of a demanding figure when it comes to the food and the meal. But you see this gentleman with this thin John Waters pencil mustache, this thinning hair that's short, but slick, with a bit of pattern baldness going on. He's a bit thick around the waist and he's sitting there with a big, beaming grin of pride.
Travis: Chef, this is going to put you on the map. We need to name it.
Matt: "Oh, well, Grand Poobah, I image that would be your honor to give. I am but humbled to present you with such a meal, so the choice is yours."
Travis: What fine tender meats are in this dish?
Matt: "Oh, well, we've got quite a variety. I wanted to provide an extravagant walk through the various creatures that we prepare here in Whitestone. Would you like me to continue?"
Travis: Please, yes! I'm talking to myself.
Matt: "We have two-week salted goat meat. On top of that we have hickory-kept long angle-smoked fish guts mixed in there with a wondrous mix of minced steaks, we've spared no possible expense on the various pieces of the cow. We've, from that point forward, presented a sprinkling of pork belly that's been ground up and salt-cured as well over the period of about two months usually kept to our various steam meals, but I thought this was a special occasion."
Travis: I'm just free-dripping saliva in and on the plate.
Matt: "So, it has a very sedimentary layers of the planet-type feel to it where each reveal occurs it's a whole different genus of animal. You're eating nature in a bowl!"
Travis: I mean, did you even, like, salt it or nothing? It's just all these beautiful animals in my own private ark of a bowl?
Matt: "They came salted."
Travis: Well, because it's got goat, fish, beef, and pork in it I'm going to call it the GoFiBePo.
Matt: "GoFiBePo it is."
Travis: But, like, you seem to have an accent, so let's put a little flair on it when you say it. The bowl of GoFiBePo.
Matt: "GoFiBePo."
Travis: I like it.
Matt: "Of course, Grand Poobah."
Travis: And I must decree there will be no utensils used when you dine of this sublime dish.
Matt: He begins writing these things down. "All right, all right. You would need approval from Lady Cassandra, of course, to put this in the familial--"
Travis: Approval?
Matt: "Well, if you were to make this the official meal of Whitestone, that is entirely within--"
Travis: This just gets better and better. Submit whatever paperwork is necessary. See that it's done. (laughter)
Matt: "You heard him, folks! Grand Poobah has spoken."
Travis: GoFiBePo.
Matt: GoFiBePo.
Travis: Even better. And I'll just start hand-smashing into my face this delicious salted meat collection.
Laura: I'm hungry now.
Matt: Yeah. Oh, it is delightful. It is delicious.
Travis: You should not be able to make up food that delicious just on the fly like that. I literally felt like I was at a fucking restaurant. That was absurd.
Laura: I want to eat it!
Taliesin: As I was saying 'Grand Poobah', I knew it was going to bite me in the ass. I don't know how.
Travis: Meat salad. You're welcome.
Taliesin: It actually sounds really good. Cured goat meat.
Matt: And it's currently being submitted to the senate of Whitestone for approval to become the official dish.
Travis: Yeah! After every battle, we'll get all the protein we need and we'll just fart our happy asses off, all night long.
Liam: It's all shabu-shabu from here on out.
Matt: Yeah. With a constitution check it might improve your speed. All right. So. What else do you wish to do, as it is now getting close to the midnight hour here at Whitestone?
Ashley: I've been an extra set of eyes in the library.
Marisha: Yeah, and I call Vex there as well.
Laura: Be there in just a moment, dear. I just want to find Vax. Can I find Vax?
Liam: You can certainly try.
Laura: I'm going to go look-- I'll look in his room and then I'll look in the temple to the Raven Queen that we have.
Liam: I'm in my room.
Laura: Hey!
Liam: Kiki, is that-- Oh.
Laura: Oh. Well. No. Hi. That's gross.
Liam: Is it, though? Is it?
Laura: Is it? Hey. One quick thing that I was thinking about, and I know that you keep bringing it up and I keep dodging this, right?
Liam: Right.
Laura: But-- So, when I was researching the Raven Queen--
Liam: Yes.
Laura: -- she hates undead.
Liam: That's kind of her thing, yeah.
Laura: So the fact that Delilah Briarwood is back again and the person that we're going after, it seems perfect.
Liam: Almost like fate, isn't it?
Laura: Hey.
Liam: Hey.
Laura: Do you think your queen lady is going to chime in there and help us out? Maybe end this cycle of whatever the fuck it is she's doing.
Liam: She will be there.
Laura: In the Shadowfell?
Liam: She will be with us when we reach the end.
Laura: That's so cryptic.
Liam: Well, it is religion.
Laura: Right.
Liam: Right.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: I mean, like Pike has always said, I don't have all the answers at all.
Laura: No. I mean, do you talk to her, though? Because, you know, Pike talks to Sarenrae.
Liam: I do.
Laura: Right! So have you asked her if she's going to help us kill Delilah Briarwood?
Liam: You know, she's not very big on specifics. It's more of a vibe kind of thing.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: But the vibe I get, I'm not going to call it good. This is it. This is what you and I have been doing our homework for.
Laura: All right.
Liam: And it's not going to slow down, it's only going to speed up.
Laura: Well.
Liam: I don't think I'm going back to Zephra anytime soon.
Laura: Not necessarily. Don't talk like that. I'm serious. You have to keep a positive outlook. Otherwise you're doomed.
Liam: This is the best year of my life. I'm very happy.
Laura: That's good.
Liam: Life is good.
Laura: Life is good.
Liam: We're going to ensure that it stays that way.
Laura: Yeah. All right.
Liam: Sorry I didn't have more for you.
Laura: No no no! It's about what I expected.
Liam: Hmm. If you see my druid, would you send her to bed?
Laura: Yes.
Liam: Thank you.
Laura: Good night.
Liam: Good night.
Laura: And I go to the library.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Boring.
Matt: Now, Percival, Keyleth. Pike, I believe you're helping out in the library as well?
Taliesin: We're literally reading through old notes right now.
Marisha: A fuckton of old notes.
Matt: Well, Vex arrives to meet up with you guys in the library of Whitestone. Whatever you're doing, Scanlan, I don't know.
Marisha: Vex.
Laura: What?
Marisha: Okay. Oh my gosh. Oh. Okay. Oh, praise Sarenrae, there's so much going on. Okay. Remember how Whitestone used to be all dead and awful? Very similar to how the other Ziggurat was dead?
Taliesin: Yes, of course.
Marisha: And then they called the ziggurat the seat of Pelor, right? So what if it was already there? What if she's taking doorways and dimensions and corrupting them and bastardizing them and--
Laura: If she's done that, if she did that to the Sun Tree, how old is Delilah Briarwood?
Taliesin: Well, we don't--
Matt: The Sun Tree has been around since before--
Taliesin: The Sun Tree was here before the castle was here, but-- And things have always happened here. The city has a history of strange occurrences. I'm inclined to believe there was something-- Well, there was obviously something beneath the castle before she got here, or else she wouldn't have come here to begin with.
Laura: It was a temple to Ioun.
Matt: The history, you know, is back in the Age of Arcanum, this valley housed a temple to Ioun, which was corrupted, and in the Calamity, the battle between the gods and mortals that changed the epoch, the Knowing Mistress suffered a grievous wound from Tharizdun, the Chained Oblivion. And in that battle, Pelor, the Dawn Father, delivered enough of a blow to the Chained Oblivion to defeat it and aid in locking it away. With the temple still lost beneath this valley, that was when the Sun Tree seed was planted by Pelor to be guardian over this space.
Marisha: What was he locking away?
Matt: A god called the Chained Oblivion.
Marisha: The Chain Oblivion?
Matt: The Chained Oblivion. Tharizdun. Yeah. A mad god of chaos and destruction.
Liam: Totally awesome metal band.
Travis: Yeah, great name.
Marisha: Okay, well, that's a big deal.
Taliesin: And, I mean, I think it's safe to assume that that's what's down there and that's what they were looking for when they came here in the first place.
Laura: Right.
Marisha: And Delilah came from Wildmount?
Taliesin: Yes. She was also, I mean--
Marisha: You did a bunch of research on Vecna. He used to be a man, right?
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: Yes.
Laura: He wanted to become the Prince of the Undead, right? Am I saying that right? No no no.
Matt: From what you've come to understand and the research you've done since the name has come up--
Taliesin: I'm pulling out my notes.
Liam: We spent a year reading books.
Matt: Right. Now mind you, the information is still very hard to find.
Laura: Because he's the god of secrets?
Matt: He's not a god. Wants to be, or at least wants to, and there is some obsession with the ascension of a mortal to a beyond-mortal state. Which has only been achieved by one being before.
Marisha: I mean, it sounds a lot like what Delilah is going for.
Laura: What if she is Vecna?
Marisha: What if she is Vecna?
Taliesin: Well, or she wants to become the next Vecna.
Marisha: Yeah. Dread Pirate Roberts of the Vecna. She came from Wildmount, where Vecna originated. She came here for research.
Laura: She's just finishing what he started.
Marisha: Maybe she's just finishing what he started. And wasn't she doing a bunch of research for runes and tomes? Do we have the research that the Briarwoods-- Didn't we seize a bunch of their research?
Taliesin: We got some of it, but they burned a lot.
Matt: You got some of it and a lot of it dealt with ley energies. There are certain lines that stretch across, invisible lines that stretch across Exandria, where the magical powers that hold together the planes and protect it through the Divine Gate and other elements--
Marisha: Do any of those ley lines go through where we were in Marquet?
Matt: You don't know that. But you do know that Whitestone resides right beneath a nexus. These ley lines were shifted during the Calamity. And now one of these nexuses is right over Whitestone, which is why this location was chosen for the ritual that the Briarwoods were assembling.
Marisha: I wonder if each ziggurat is over a nexus.
Taliesin: It could be. We know that she's not ancient, because we have a bit of a paper trail. We do know that she was ruling in Wildmount for a while. We do know that she studied at the Alabaster Lyceum briefly. And there's some paperwork for that.
Matt: In looking up the background history, you would know that King Bertrand Dwendal of the Dwendalian Empire was given information in regards to the Briarwoods, who were essentially accused of forbidden necromancy. And were to be arrested and put on trial, and that's when they fled westward towards Tal'Dorei and then encountered your family.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Laura: So they got run out of Wildmount?
Matt: Seemingly.
Taliesin: From what we understand and again, there's not much that survived that. They tend to cover their tracks.
Marisha: They were also trying to build that whole bridge situation? Remember the bridge? That was weird.
Taliesin: They wanted to move. Well--
Marisha: They wanted to move an army. Right?
Matt: The bridge, from what you can tell, there was no way, plans or means of even building a bridge. And a bridge has been attempted in the past over the Shearing Channel and it's just too-- The cliffs are too steep and too windy and the water beneath is too strong. Which is why the prospect to the previous sovereign was such a possible good thing to make a deal with the Briarwoods at the time. But there are no plans. Nothing in their notes spoke of actually making a bridge. It was more a means to get into the graces of the royal family.
Taliesin: And probably collect assets as well.
Marisha: Okay. If you were run out of somewhere--
Taliesin: Which I have been.
Marisha: Which you have been. After a lot of research--
Taliesin: Which I've done.
Marisha: -- and you were trying to do something--
Taliesin: Which I do.
Marisha: -- what would be your second place of choosing to go?
Taliesin: Anywhere that they serve some sort of meat salad, I imagine. (laughter)
Marisha: I'm just saying, if you're run out of one place for doing something, I imagine--
Taliesin: You're thinking maybe they have another portal in Wildmount.
Marisha: Yes, I do.
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: Another ziggurat?
Taliesin: Could be several of them.
Marisha: If they are run out of one place for something, my first thing would be try to find the next place to keep it going.
Laura: Right. And then she got run out of here, so she went to Ank'harel.
Marisha: Correct. What if she's already been killed in Wildmount? So many theories, you guys. So many theories! It's kind of exciting.
Taliesin: Let's not get overly speculative here.
Travis: Are ziggurats always pyramids?
Liam: That's what a ziggurat is. It's like an Aztec bip-bip-bip.
Marisha: We know the Briarwoods also did dealings with the Stormwinds in Wildmount.
Laura: What other pyramids have we seen, though? Have we seen any other--
Travis: The thing we fought the beholder in.
Laura: The mindflayer place. That was a ziggurat.
Marisha: Son of a bitch!
Laura: Under Kraghammer! Oh my god! Is there a ziggurat in Kraghammer?
Liam: Hell yeah there is a ziggurat. Yeah, it was a ziggurat.
Matt: You've seen a few, actually.
Liam: I'm speaking in my voice because I'm not there, but he said-- Yeah, oh, he's poker-facing it. We said ziggurat many times when we were down there.
Marisha: Did we see a pyramid when we were in Wildmount? When we went there?
Taliesin: We were barely there, though.
Laura: But it would've been underground. I mean, who knows where the fuck it was? Wait, wait, wait! What about the temple where we saw the other sphinx? Was that another ziggurat there?
Marisha: And that was up in Vasselheim! Thank you.
Laura: Ah! Is there a ziggurat--
Marisha: There's a ziggurat on every continent! (singing) Every continent has a ziggurat.
Laura: They can come out everywhere.
Travis: So collapsing the tunnels didn't really do that much.
Taliesin: No, because it shut one potential vein of a dozen.
Marisha: It's these damn ley lines. I knew there's been something up with these ley lines and I tried to talk to the Sun Tree about it and he didn't know.
Laura: Well, he's a tree.
Marisha: He's a tree.
Taliesin: Be nice to the Sun Tree.
Marisha: No, he's very cool.
Travis: So all the bodies that were hanging under Whitestone, right, they were all stapled to the walls? Was that the army? Was she trying to fill them with necromantic energy?
Taliesin: Oh my god, they would've come alive if there had been a giant blast of necrotic energy.
Travis: Yeah. The bodies weren't feeding the thing. She was trying to imbue them with--
Taliesin: She was preparing to create an army.
Liam: Yeah. And they were missing arms?
Laura: We didn't look in the ziggurat in Ank'harel. There could've been bodies there, too.
Taliesin: I don't think they had gotten that far yet.
Marisha: And one of the things I have written down.
Travis: Why were they throwing magical things into it, though? It was magical items into--
Taliesin: Offerings? Because they would've become magical once they got to the other side of the portal. I mean, they would've been great gifts.
Liam: What do you think, Taryon Darrington? Or Scanlan.
Matt: Tary is fixing Doty.
Sam: I'm just giving him CPR. (laughter)
Sam: You've never given up on anything in your life. Now live! (laughter)
Liam: Ed Harris in The Abyss. You've never given up a day in your life, you bitch.
Ashley: Scanlan?
Sam: I'm in my room, praying.
Laura: You're not here?
Marisha: In your room, praying?
Laura: Praying to Sarenrae?
Sam: Mm-hm. Or Logic. (laughter)
Taliesin: Logic is a fickle god.
Marisha: Yeah. Desmond (mumbles). Briarwood's carriage driver. Lady Briarwood is immune to daylight.
Taliesin: It's like watching your game in fast-forward.
Marisha: Briarwoods have an army. I have it in giant, big letters, but I don't know what that means.
Laura: Obviously, it would take a very long time to go to every ziggurat that we've seen and see if there's an army inside of it. If they've been preparing things there over this past year that we haven't been doing anything!
Travis: We don't know that any of this is right. We should just go through.
Laura: We should go to the Shadowfell and fucking end this before she sets out her armies everywhere.
Travis: We did let her regroup a little bit, but we didn't know what we were doing.
Taliesin: There was nothing we could have done.
Travis: Do you want to mess with the stones? Try and duplicate them? We have seven, right?
Laura: We have seven. We could go through.
Taliesin: Seven of us could go through.
Sam: (whispering) We're only seven people.
Laura: There's only seven of us.
Taliesin: There's eight. One of us would have to stay behind.
Sam: Who's the eighth? Count the table, friend.
Travis: Tary's staying.
Taliesin: Tary's the eighth. Are we going to go through with Tary? I'm being such an asshole right now.
Matt: You're terrible.
Marisha: I could also maybe Plane Shift us there with one of these?
Travis: If we take damage going through the portal with the stone, does that mean we might take damage if you Plane Shift us there?
Laura: Who knows? It's the Shadowfell.
Taliesin: I say we speak with Allura, and if this looks--
Laura: We need to talk to Eskil Ryndarien and see what he knows about the Shadowfell, right? He's been studying the Shadowfell, too.
Matt: Since he arrived, yeah.
Taliesin: I think the plan is we take the fight to them.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Is it worth going back to any of the other ziggurats, or no?
Laura: I don't think so, at this point.
Taliesin: I think that it's not time to check the doors. It's time to go out and chase the monsters. If we take care of them, it doesn't matter how many ziggurats there are.
Travis: Yes.
Laura: We just have to--
Taliesin: Hope we don't miss one. Travel the world.
Laura: Hey, at least Vecna's not a god. Bonus there.
Marisha: That's true.
Taliesin: Let's have an evening, and then tomorrow, we'll--
Travis: Tally-ho?
Taliesin: Collect what we've learned, and if we're prepared, jump into a sphere of death.
Laura: We can't waste time.
Marisha: If we jump through the sphere of death, they might be expecting us on the other side of the sphere of death. If we Plane Shift, we might be able to come up with a flanky, secret, other tactic.
Taliesin: If you can figure out a way to use one of these to create a Plane Shift that you'll feel comfortable with, then I'm all right with that.
Marisha: I'll talk it over with other magic-users, first.
Travis: Which ones?
Marisha: I don't know. I'll find one.
Liam: We can go visit one of them. I'm not there.
Matt: You're not there.
Travis: Make the call.
Marisha: Eskil knows stuff like that.
Taliesin: Let's all get some sleep, and in the morning, we're going to take care of this. One way or the other, we'll take this fight to them.
Laura: You'll talk to Eskil, because I hate that motherfucker.
Taliesin: He likes you. Well, he doesn't dislike you any more than he dislikes anybody else.
Marisha: He dislikes you even less. He just hates everyone.
Taliesin: He's terrible, isn't he?
Laura: Crotchety old fuck.
Matt: All right, so you're all going to go in for the evening, and we'll come back to this in the morning.
Liam: Wait. One second.
Matt: Sorry, go ahead.
Liam: Did you guys--
Marisha: Oh my gosh. We figured out so much stuff.
Liam: Give me the download.
Marisha: Delilah might be Vecna, and all this, there are ziggurats everywhere, and we're so dumb because we've probably seen several ziggurats, and they're all on these massive ley lines, and I give him a whole dialogue.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Holy moly. Do you need to get word back home? Because I don't think we're going home.
Marisha: What do you mean?
Liam: I mean, the dreams I've been having all year and telling you about. They felt like this. This is the moment.
Marisha: You think if we go in, we're never coming back?
Liam: I'm not saying that.
Marisha: You think if we go in, you're never coming back?
Liam: Well, I didn't say that, either. We were going to go back in a day or two, and I don't think that's happening. Do you think everyone at home, they're good?
Marisha: I'll have someone send a message.
Liam: Okay.
Marisha: You can't resign to this. You can't give up on me.
Liam: Kiki, I'm not giving up. I will never give up on you.
Marisha: I can see it in your eyes. You think this is it.
Liam: I'm so glad that we're together for this, whatever it is. And no, I'm not resigned. I would love to see you off to a very long life in Zephra. No, with you. With you, until I'm not with you. Your dad's probably worrying. I worry about him worrying about you, that's all.
Marisha: Really? Everything going on right now, and you're worried about my dad? Typical boyfriend, I guess. That's fair.
Liam: You know, I am so anxious right now, and the only thing that is going to distract me is all your fucking freckles, so come to bed, all right? Come on.
Marisha: Promise me you'll come back with me, no matter what.
Liam: I promise.
Marisha: Even if it doesn't happen, just promise.
Liam: Well, that's an easy promise to make. I promise.
Marisha: I just need you to believe it.
Liam: I believe. Get the fuck in this bed.
Marisha: Sure.
Matt: Okay, so you all find your evening's rest, preparing for the next morning in whatever means you wish to prepare for. We're going to take a break. We'll be back here in a few minutes to pick up this next length of the journey and see where it takes us. We're giving away on the break a Purpleheart dice box from Wyrmwood.
Liam: That's the most beautiful one.
Laura: The Scanlan wood!
Ashley: The Scanlan wood!
Matt: Get that Scanlan wood!
Liam: I mean, the Gabon ebony is really nice, but the Purpleheart--
Sam: Did you say gay-bone?
Liam: It's the Gabon. Gabon?
Matt: Yes, so for that contest you need to come over to Twitch chat, and I've actually forgotten what word we chose for today.
Sam: Scorsese.
Matt: (laughs) What was the word? Thank you. Whisper. The word is whisper. So go ahead and when prompted, enter "whisper" into the chat room to enter, and we'll come back after the break to announce who the lucky winner is. We'll see you guys in a few minutes. (cheering) [break]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome back to Critical Role. Oh god, they're closer now. I'm starting to rethink this scenario.
Liam: Life comes at you fast, Matt.
Matt: That it does, apparently. Anyway, welcome back.
Laura: I think that was the best one I've ever heard, though, Ashley. That was a really good one.
Matt: You may fight one later. (laughter)
Matt: So as you guys rested for the evening and found yourself the following morning, presenting the possibility of making your way into the Shadowfell and what waits for you there. You come to consciousness, you have your morning meal, you begin to plot and plan. What do you wish to do?
Marisha: Go find Eskil.
Laura: Go find Eskil. Somebody else is going to go find out from him, right?
Matt: He's actually eating out in the garden. He has one of the little tables set out there. It's a nice morning out in Whitestone right now. It's chilly, but the clouds have broken a bit. You can see some blue skies; a little bit of sun's breaking through. He's out there with Jecht, his associate, who's in the process of cutting his food for him while Eskil's sitting there, still looking through books and occasionally reaching over and plucking things from his plate to eat. As you approach him, he doesn't even look up. He goes, "Yes? What do you require?"
Marisha: Good morning.
Matt: "Good morning to you, as well, I suppose."
Marisha: Lovely weather today, isn't it?
Matt: "It is weather, yes."
Marisha: So! How's the research on the Shadowfell going?
Matt: "It's done. I've researched it. I don't know what you require."
Marisha: All of it. All of the research?
Matt: "As much as is in the tomes I have at my disposal, yes."
Marisha: Anything we should know? Anything important? Fill us in a little bit? Spark Notes?
Matt: "It's a plane of negative energy, and elements of it are used to funnel the transition of souls from life to death or back. A number of it is scourged by undeath and those that skirt that process. It exists as a mirror plane, much like the Feywild. There are elements that resemble Exandria, but twisted, shifted. It is a very barren, very broken, dust-filled, dark-- not a very pleasant place, really."
Liam: And chock-full of undead, you said?
Matt: "Elements of it, yes."
Marisha: Used to transport souls? Give me a second.
Liam: Sorry, she carries this book around. She's very precise with her notes.
Matt: "Good. You should be. Precision is recommended."
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to show him the necklace that we found. This seems to have a slight magical attunement to the Shadowfell. Do you think I could use this as a plane-shifting device?
Matt: "It would need some alteration. It's possible. Very careful alteration. You need it to be a very narrow fork in order to properly channel the spell, and this does not quite match the proper division of magical energies. It could be physically altered to do so, but too much and you ruin the minor enchantment and attunement."
Marisha: All right. That's very good to know.
Liam: But doable?
Marisha: With how much time?
Matt: "I don't know. I'm no metalworker. I imagine not too much."
Marisha: Okay. Are you able to send messages? You have Sending, yeah?
Matt: He leans back, looking slightly offended. "I have means to communicate with individuals of importance, yes."
Marisha: Just wondering if you could tell my dad that I might be gone for a long time?
Matt: "I have absolutely no interest in any of what you just said."
Marisha: I'd really owe you one, Eskil. Just a quick message?
Matt: "I'm not a messenger service for individuals' parental units."
Liam: Well, we are potentially going to throw ourselves at the greatest evil that this world has ever known, in the hopes that the entire world can survive, so that's a big favor. That's a big gimme for you. So maybe in exchange for that, you could send a little message.
Marisha: Just to my dad to let him know that I might die attempting to--
Matt: "Who's your father?"
Marisha: Korren of the Ashari, who is one of the headmasters.
Matt: "Right, of the wind people. Whatever. Right, okay."
Liam: Who is your daddy, and what does he do? (laughter)
Matt: He thinks for a second. Begins to run his finger in the air, and you watch as there's a faint scrolling of soft bluish-white light. (poof) Turns to smoke and vanishes. "All right, he knows you're going to be off doing stuff in the Shadowfell and probably won't be back for a while."
Marisha: Thank you.
Matt: "You're welcome."
Marisha: Can we maybe borrow your research notes on the Shadowfell? Is that a thing? No? (sighs)
Matt: (thud)
Marisha: Thank you.
Liam: Seriously, thank you.
Marisha: Thank you.
Matt: "You're welcome. I will call into this favor later."
Marisha: Sure. You know where to find us. What?
Liam: Nothing.
Marisha: All right. Enjoy your tea and biscuits.
Matt: "I will."
Marisha: Thanks, Eskil.
Liam: Are they sweet or savory?
Matt: "They're delicious."
Liam: I grab one.
Matt: (frustrated noise)
Laura: While that was going on, is that caravan still in town that was coming through? We've only been gone a day.
Matt: It's still in town.
Laura: Are there any fancy fucking chalices that I could fucking buy for a Heroes' Feast?
Matt: (laughs)
Liam: Whitestone is made of fancy chalices, isn't it, Percy?
Taliesin: We have a chalice room.
Matt: I will say, if you're spending a good portion of the morning going around, asking. Being your charismatic self and well-versed in gathering information in a marketplace, you do find two chalices for sale that would match the specifications required to cast a Heroes' Feast.
Taliesin: Hey. Do you want to buy a chalice?
Laura: Fabulous!
Matt: "The finest chalices this side of Wildemount. It's crazy."
Taliesin: Sipping cups. What do you need?
Liam: One of them is super gauche.
Matt: "This one has an anti-dribble chinnage. For all those nights you're drinking too hard and you don't want to spill all over your front pouch?"
Laura: Do you have a sippy cup lid, though?
Matt: "That will cost you extra."
Laura: How much?
Matt: "Five gold, for the sippy cup."
Sam: Is this fancy enough for a Heroes' Feast?
Laura: How much for the cup?
Matt: "Each cup, because these traveled quite a bit. They'll bring you about 1,200 gold pieces."
Laura: 1,200 gold pieces.
Marisha: Apiece, or total?
Matt: "Apiece."
Liam: Why is the school crossing guard from my hometown in New Jersey in Whitestone right now?
Matt: "Hey, you think I haven't been busy after you left school?" (laughter)
Liam: Everybody in Weehawken is like, what happened to Larry?
Matt: "Found a new occupation  chalice collector."
Taliesin: What am I going to do with all these chalices?
Matt: "Actually..."
Laura: Well, Larry. You know that these chalices are probably going to be used to save the world.
Matt: "That sounds like a perfect reason to buy them."
Laura: It does, doesn't it? And just think how wonderful it will be when you can tell everyone that you sell to that you sold the things that saved the world to Vox Machina.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Laura: It wasn't a one. Persuasion, 19.
Matt: "Vox Machina, you say? You know these folks?"
Laura: Lady Vex'ahlia, at your service.
Matt: His eye widens on one side. "Well, I've not really seen or know much about you folks, but I've heard tales of you."
Laura: I turn and show him the scales from the Chroma Conclave.
Matt: "That real dragon? No shit. Well, I mean, tell you what." He pulls out a piece of paper and starts scrawling on it. He pulls out his inkwell and starts dipping it. "If you would do the honor of signing this official document that says that these were sold to none other than Lady Vex'ahlia of Vox Machina that I can use as proof of this transaction for my own promotional purposes, I'll be happy to give you both of these--"
Laura: This is my favorite shop on the Citadel.
Taliesin: This is the equivalent of the head shot on the wall.
Matt: Yeah, basically. "I will happily give you both of these at a discount of 1,000 gold pieces apiece."
Laura: I like your style. Can I insight and make sure this isn't some sort of enchanted piece of fucking--
Matt: Sure, go for it.
Laura: What would I add to that?
Matt: Your insight.
Laura: Okay, see if he's full of shit. 14?
Matt: 14? Hard to read. (laughter)
Laura: You know what? Fuck it. We're probably going to die, anyway.
Matt: "A pleasure doing business with you, milady." Hands you the two chalices. They're beautiful. One's more reddish gem-encrusted. The other has a platinum spiral that runs around the base of it. They're both beautiful and intricate.
Laura: And you just threw the sippy cup lid as a little--
Matt: "Yeah, okay."
Taliesin: For the chalice on the go.
Liam: Now stay in school, Liam. Stay in school.
Matt: "Wait, that guy looks familiar." I forgot to also say we have a winner, by the way. Kiajade. Congratulations. I should have mentioned that. I got caught up in the story. Thank god that's never happened before. But congratulations. All right. You've acquired your chalices. What other business do you guys want to take care of?
Taliesin: I'm going to make sure I have enough powder and shot for a bit of a jaunt, so I'm going into the stores of what we make here and reloading. I'm also going to try and make some silver shot. I've never tried it before.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Not a ton. I want to try and make 12. I want to see if I can make 12.
Matt: Make a tinkering check. Dexterity. Well, no. This would be intelligence.
Taliesin: It's intelligence?
Matt: It's a new concept you're trying.
Taliesin: Intelligence check.
Matt: Plus your proficiency.
Taliesin: Plus my proficiency. That's 19.
Matt: 19? Sure. You manage to make about 12 pieces of silver shot. You know, for the most part, because it's not as hard as other forms, it's going to be... but it is susceptible to enchantment.
Taliesin: Which is why I was going to then take those to Pike. I don't entirely understand how this works, but I had an idea. And I show her the 12 silver bearings, basically. Would you know how to bless something like this?
Ashley: I could certainly try.
Taliesin: I think this might come in handy. It's a wild idea. I don't know. I'm trying to think of surprising her with something.
Ashley: I think that's actually a fantastic idea.
Taliesin: They're a bit hard to make, and they may just not be useful at all, but I thought... I don't know how any of this works.
Ashley: I'll see what I can do. Yeah. I'll see what I can do.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Matt: Okay. You take the silver shot. Anyone want to try anything else?
Laura: Yeah. I want to buy some holy oil, or get some holy oil from the church, or something. (laughter) Where do I get holy oil?
Sam: From the church.
Laura: We've gotten holy oil before. I just can't remember from where.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: 21.
Matt: 21. "You look like you're looking for something to buy."
Laura: Oh, really? Larry, do you have any holy oil?
Matt: "My lady. Do I? I happen to have one vial of holy oil, good for two applications."
Laura: All right. That's it? Just one?
Matt: "Traveled a long way, and you're a little late in the shopping day. I was all full on them, but they've been flying off the shelf. My apologies."
Laura: Skeletons everywhere.
Ashley: Vex, I have some holy oil?
Laura: How much?
Ashley: I don't know. I just have a vial of it. I don't know how much that is.
Laura: That's good for two applications, I think.
Ashley: Probably good for two applications.
Matt: Three applications with the vial that you have.
Laura: Oh, this one has a little bit missing? How much? Because this is less than it normally is.
Matt: "Look, you've already done some good business with me. I'll give it to you for 150."
Sam: But you have to sign this poster. (laughter)
Ashley: For my Hawaiian poke bowl mascot. (laughter)
Travis: I would eat there all the time.
Laura: 150 gold. Sure. Only because Percy gave me a look. You know what-- yeah, okay.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: She's going to keep trying to listen to one word.
Marisha: A lot to unpack here.
Matt: I'm not hearing music. We'll check that in a second. Anybody else want to prepare anything?
Liam: Yeah. I want to track down Kynan for a minute.
Matt: Okay. You find him. It's early morning. They've finished their early round of training for the morning, and some of the early Pale Guard recruits are in the process of rushing off and taking a small lunch break. He's currently taking a lot of the equipment from the training grounds and setting it aside in the various weapon racks, and generally cleaning up the space as you approach. He looks over his shoulder as he sets some of the practice blades along the edge.
Liam: Hey, brother man. How's all?
Matt: "Good. All's well. Just keeping things going. Got a lot of good up-and-coming folks."
Liam: You got all these ladies and gentlemen in shape?
Matt: "Working on it. It's a process."
Liam: I don't want to take up a lot of your time. We just got in, and we're heading out again. Anyway, I'm glad that I have Simon back, but I feel bad because I gave it to you and I took it away. But we're leaving, and I want to travel light, so I wanted to make it up to you. I have this. I'm going to give you this dagger. It's the Keen Dagger. Take this. It's too much; I can't use it. I've got this thing. Anyway. Just hold onto it. That's it.
Matt: "Thank you very much. I'll keep it at my side." He takes the basic dagger out of his sheath and chucks it into the corner.
Liam: Yeah. That one's better. And thanks, and I think Percy's thankful, too. I think. You're doing really good work here.
Matt: "Thank you. Thank you very much."
Liam: Long, twisted road, but look where we are. Look where you are.
Matt: "There's still a ways to go."
Liam: Pat, pat.
Laura: Pat, pat where?
Liam: On his dick, obviously. (laughter)
Travis: The open palm?
Liam: On his cheek. That's it. Anyway, you're busy. We'll see you soon.
Matt: "I look forward to it. Stay safe."
Liam: I will. Keep up the good work. (whoosh)
Matt: All right.
Sam: I guess Taryon will go find Vex. Stumble up and say, I have to stay here and keep working on Doty. I understand you're leaving today.
Laura: You're not going to come with us?
Sam: I cannot. I have to stay and fix Doty and get back to my home. I'm sorry. It's been a pleasure.
Laura: Don't say it's been a pleasure!
Sam: It's been an honor to have your acquaintance, and I'm afraid I have to return, but perhaps we'll meet again sometime.
Laura: I give him a big old hug. And I give him...
Liam: Three copper.
Laura: I give him-- I don't have any feathers left, I don't think.
Sam: Do you have any money? (laughter)
Laura: I have no money, Tary.
Sam: I need money.
Taliesin: Technically speaking, you've been on salary.
Sam: How about this? I wrote you a check. Can you rip it up? I don't think I can pay it, ever. (laughter)
Laura: Tary, I ripped it up about two weeks after you moved in.
Sam: Thank you. And you have no other money on you?
Laura: I open up my pouch, and I've got zero personal gold. Just party funds.
Sam: Well, I feel like I should leave you with all of my belongings, and all of my magical items, but I need them for my brigade. I'll leave you with the seashell crown that who gave me? Grog?
Laura: Percy.
Sam: Percy gave me.
Laura: I think he'd want you to have that.
Sam: Do you want the half of a geode rock with 30 living souls inside of it?
Laura: Yeah, give it to me. Thanks, friend.
Sam: I can't use it.
Laura: 30-soul rock. Got it.
Marisha: 30 Rock Soul? (giggles)
Travis: 30 souls just sitting in a rock. You think my shit's weird?
Sam: Maybe I should have shown that to Pike sometime in the last year?
Laura: I will show it to her.
Taliesin: That's just been sitting on your bedside, hasn't it? Slowly making the sound of crying.
Matt: If you get really close at night, you hear this faint (screams).
Laura: Help me!
Matt: He puts another pillow over it.
Laura: What is that?
Taliesin: Anything else?
Sam: Do you think you'll see Percy anytime soon?
Laura: I think I might.
Sam: When you do, (pink) can you give him this little gem for his flashlight? I can't spare many, but that will give him one flashlight.
Laura: Definitely.
Taliesin: He'll have to come back, anyway, because he doesn't know how to make the ammo for his gun.
Laura: How are you going to get Doty home?
Sam: Well, after he's fixed, me and Chod--
Laura: Right. Lionel. I think he likes to be called Lionel.
Sam: I prefer Chod. I think we'll set off the old-fashioned way.
Laura: See who you pick up along the way?
Sam: Ooh! That could be chapter one of the new book.
Laura: Exactly.
Sam: Yes. A New Hope. Something like that.
Laura: I like it. It's epic. Catchy.
Sam: Yes. Well, I'm not going to say have fun, because you're going to a terrible place.
Laura: We might not make it out alive. If you talk to my brother, that's what he says. He says it every time.
Liam: I never said that.
Sam: If you die, I will be very upset. Hey, if I die, your thing will glow, so that will be good.
Laura: Same. So we'll know.
Sam: I'll see you sometime in Wildemount?
Laura: Of course we'll come visit you.
Sam: All right.
Laura: I love you so much.
Sam: You, too. Take care of your hair. You know, you shouldn't wash it as often as you do. It just makes it dry and flaky.
Laura: The oil is helpful. Thank you.
Sam: Get it trimmed every two weeks.
Laura: Right.
Sam: And have someone comb it.
Laura: Yeah, I probably should do that, huh?
Sam: It's really disgusting sometimes.
Laura: Okay. I'll brush it a hundred brush strokes every night, just like you.
Sam: Thank you. All right. Goodbye. I'll see you soon, Little Elf Girl.
Laura: Bye, Goldie. (fake-cries)
Matt: All right, so what do you wish to do, guys?
Ashley: Is there a way that I can bless these bullets?
Taliesin: They're musket balls, technically. They're not bullets.
Matt: It will take you a while to do so. You could temporarily bless them with the Bless spell, but to infuse them with the blessing would be the equivalent of a small enchantment, so it would take you a couple of days or something.
Ashley: Well, I could start it, depending on when we leave, I guess. I have Bless. I was looking at that, but I didn't know I could use that on actual objects, other than people.
Taliesin: We also have to modify one of the necklaces.
Laura: Yeah. That needs to go to a blacksmith, or something?
Marisha: Unless we want to go through the old-fashioned way like the cultists did.
Liam: The old-fashioned way?
Laura: We can't Plane Shift unless we alter the necklace.
Taliesin: But we have enough necklaces that we could just jump through.
Travis: That one.
Marisha: We might take a little bit of damage on the way through.
Travis: I'm game.
Laura: You have a bajillion health points.
Travis: I also thought of something overnight. All right? It hurt, because it's kind of brilliant. Can you hold your breath for-- (whispering) what's higher than ten?
Ashley: (whispering) 11.
Travis: 11 seconds.
Sam: Sure.
Laura: Why?
Travis: Why don't all you bitches just hop in the Bag of Holding, I jump through, take all the damage for us, and then you just (popping sounds) pop right back out?
Taliesin: I can think of many reasons why that's probably not a good idea.
Travis: What could it possibly be?
Taliesin: The Bag of Holding is a negative space. It's not designed to sustain life.
Travis: Have you ever been in one?
Taliesin: Very specifically not, because things die in there.
Liam: Grog, think of all the things you've pulled out of there that look like sloppy joes, when they didn't look like that going in.
Laura: Let's put something living inside of there and wait ten seconds and then take it out and see if it's still alive.
Travis: But it has to be able to hold its breath. If we throw a dog in there--
Ashley: So if it breathes, it will die.
Travis: Yeah, there's no air, I don't think.
Laura: If it's ten seconds and it's not knowing to hold its breath, it will come out alive, still.
Travis: If you want to do CPR, whatever.
Taliesin: What if the things inside take the damage even if they are in the Bag of Holding?
Travis: We should find out. Are you going in?
Taliesin: No.
Travis: I'll go in.
Ashley: You stick your hand in there all the time. No?
Taliesin: This is not a magic you want to be messing around with.
Travis: All right. I just wanted to put it out there. We can all take the stones and go through. I bet it's not going to be that bad of a deal.
Taliesin: No, this is the fantasy equivalent of locking yourself in a refrigerator.
Travis: Just wanted to put it out there if you wanted to live on the edge of life, but no, we'll just do it the boring way.
Taliesin: I feel comfortable with the level of risk-taking of jumping into a giant sphere that crushes anything it touches.
Marisha: It's definitely a large amount of risk-taking already.
Laura: Can anybody tell if this plate is cursed? Can you tell if something's cursed, bro?
Sam: Oh, the armor?
Liam: No.
Laura: Can you tell if something is cursed, Pike?
Ashley: I could try. Can I check it out and see if it's cursed?
Travis: That is a face that says, I'm giving you nothing. (groans) Garlic chicken.
Laura: Gross. Were you the one burping earlier, too?
Travis: I blew it that way, though.
Laura: Yeah, but somebody burped in the first half of the game, and it was foul.
Travis: It's probably me.
Taliesin: Careful where you aim that. You might break a camera.
Sam: Let's go. Let's move!
Laura: I'm trying to figure out if this plate mail is cursed or not.
Sam: Who the fuck cares? We're going to a cursed place.
Laura: No, but it's so we can put it on somebody here.
Taliesin: Let's grab a bit of funds. Do we have the group funds, as well? We have access to the group funds.
Sam: You think one plate armor's going to do anything?
Marisha: Scanlan's back.
Travis: Let's go.
Liam: Guess who's back?
Marisha: Hang on. Do we want to do a Heroes' Feast?
Taliesin: Not yet.
Laura: Yeah, 'cause what if something's waiting for us on the other side?
Taliesin: What if nothing's waiting for us on the other side? Because now we're down one Heroes' Feast.
Laura: Yeah, but what if there is?
Travis: We've got a mansion.
Taliesin: Then we dive into the mansion and we have a Heroes' Feast.
Laura: We've got to waste a fucking minute. We've got to protect Scanlan for a minute.
Taliesin: I think we're going to be okay.
Liam: I'm with your beau.
Taliesin: I think over-cautious. Even when jumping into the depths of the undead, there's such a thing as over-cautious.
Travis: Let's go down to the ziggurat.
Taliesin: I'm putting the-- as I hit the microphone. Do not touch your microphone when you put on your necklace. I'm putting on my necklace.
Laura: Okay, I'll put on my necklace.
Matt: Each of you don one of the symbols?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Do we need to put on the robes, too, that we found?
Laura: Fuck the robes.
Taliesin: I want them to see me coming.
Marisha: All right. Do you want the robes?
Liam: I don't feel strongly about it.
Travis: If we put on the robes, we've got to pull out an eyeball each, too.
Ashley: We're already there? We're standing at the ball?
Laura: Are we going down? Sure.
Travis: We're going down to the ziggurat.
Matt: All right. You find your way down into the subterranean tunnels beneath Whitestone, winding through the caverns until you enter the chamber that contains the ziggurat where you initially faced off with the Briarwoods. As you climb to the top, there before you, you see standing in all of its glory, the black, as you've called it, spinning orb of death. Approximately that large now, and it's this dark void, that as you get close, it has this weird vibration to it. And there it is, suspended about four feet off the ground at the top of this ziggurat.
Laura: Can I get close to it and put the necklace near it without touching it?
Matt: Yeah. You put the necklace near it, and you watch as the sphere, this weird grayish aura around it begins to emanate faintly, almost like the closer it gets, the brighter this weird gray aura tends to get and the wider it grows.
Laura: That seems promising.
Liam: I'm right behind you.
Taliesin: Who first?
Liam: Me. (whoosh)
Sam: (screams)
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Well, that happened.
Matt: I would like you to make a constitution saving throw.
Marisha: Keyleth reaches for Vax right as he goes in. Oh shit.
Liam: I'll use my first Luck of the day. Wasn't that bad, but it's an important roll. That's better. 20.
Matt: 20. Okay.
Travis: That's a lot of dice.
Marisha: Oh Jesus, that's so many dice.
Ashley: (whispering) I thought we bamfed into it.
Marisha: He twitched again.
Matt: You take 11 points of necrotic damage. Anybody else?
Marisha: Just that? That's it?
Matt: You don't know that. You just saw him vanish.
Travis: I'm game. I'll go.
Marisha: All right.
Matt: Everybody going in?
Marisha: Yeah, in.
Matt: All right. Everyone, make a constitution saving throw, please.
Sam: Nine. No, 17.
Matt: 17.
Taliesin: 23.
Matt: 22 points of necrotic damage. 11 points of necrotic damage.
Travis: Nine.
Matt: 22 points of necrotic damage. 22 points of necrotic damage.
Ashley: Six.
Matt: 22 points of necrotic damage.
Marisha: 16.
Matt: 22 points of necrotic damage. So as you leap into the sphere, you feel as if the gravity that holds you to the ground, or sometimes the ceiling, bends around you and your limbs are wrenched forward, like someone has you in a full Nelson that doesn't end. Your body is about to be condensed and crushed, when you feel the symbol pulse, and the gravity lessens somewhat. It's still tearing into you, and you feel this coldness and this numbness come over your body, as you feel like you're a square peg being pushed through a round hole, physically pushed through against your will. You begin to yell out in pain instinctually before it comes to a stop and you all land to your feet, out of breath. The numbness begins to fade to immediate pins and needles, just pain across your entire body. You feel like someone just raked a number of tacks across every surface of your skin and as the pain begins to throb, you can feel the blood pulsing throughout your body as it all shoots to the surface. You still sense that you, thanks to your symbols around your neck, you managed to withstand a much more dangerous arrival. As your eyes focus, you already feel the chilled air that surrounds you, like a cold, cold winter morning. The sky above is sunless and gray, like an overcast horizon without clouds to texture it, breached by distant mountain ranges like so much broken glass. You see behind you immediately the other corresponding siphon, floating, bright gray-white in color and glowing, the same color that you saw briefly shifted to in the ziggurat near Ank'harel. Beneath it, you find shards of ruined objects, piles of long-dead bodies, flesh and bone rended and twisted like they'd been put through some rapid tornado on different sides of their body. And you see a lot of these shattered pieces of wood and metal were all a number of objects that were thrown in here during the experimental phase when you guys first uncovered this. You look around and notice that you stand atop a rectangular platform of dark, smooth stone, about 15 feet on each side. Beneath the edges, about 20 feet down, 'til it comes to the ground. So you're on an elevated stone platform that the siphon is affixed to above, floating about four feet above the top of the surface. And you look down to the ground immediately around you and you see just dry, cracked badlands. It seems to spread out, making up the majority of the Shadowfell around you. Surrounding your location, your sight clarifies to see what appears to be hundreds of buildings and structures that form this shade of an ancient city, like a town, a sprawling village. Half the structures toppled and destroyed, piles of rubble and rock. The ground itself seems to jut up in places, these tiny, shooting spires of black and gray earth that the city has either been built around or seemed to have grown through. As you look past that, you see movement throughout the streets in the distance, but before you can focus on that, your vision immediately sticks towards, in the center of this circular-like city, the standing, ominous, commanding, massive spire of obsidian black, familiar to both of you through two different types of vision you've experienced. A jagged monolith that exudes ancient hatred, encircled by dozens of dark, winged beasts that watch over the dreary skies. Who here is proficient in history?
Laura: Nobody is proficient in history?!
Sam: We're doomed to repeat it.
Travis: Really, Percy?
Taliesin: No, I have other qualities, history was not my forefront. I know Whitestone.
Sam: Somewhere, Taryon is reading a history book.
Matt: Exactly. The two of you make history checks with disadvantage because you lack proficiency. Yes, you being a bard, you pick up information in passing. With disadvantage, each of you.
Taliesin: Nine.
Sam: 11.
Laura: Oh god.
Sam: That's a bad sign.
Matt: You have no inclination of where you stand or what's before you. All you know is you stand now on the cold plane of the Shadowfell, the echo of the Prime Material.
Laura: Our notes on the Shadowfell.
Matt: You do.
Taliesin: Can we consult the Rand McNally?
Travis: The Rand McNally guide, yeah.
Matt: You're welcome to. Just so you guys know, you are all standing out in the middle of the open, on this large stone platform looking down in the center of this giant city--
Laura: There are things that are moving below. I see them.
Marisha: And the ziggurat is above us?
Matt: There is no ziggurat. There is a large, black spire, but that's in the center of the city maybe two miles off.
Laura: As we hop down, I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.
Liam: There are buildings around, so are we in the middle of a field, a plain, badlands?
Matt: There are buildings. You see two structures maybe 50 or 60 feet from you on each side, and then going forward, from your current position, it leads right into the city. So this structure is on the outskirts. It's right on the perimeter.
Laura: Do we see any other orbs around?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: 25.
Matt: You glance and, in the faint gray sky above you, around the glowing white-gray orb this side of the siphon, you see a very, very faint aura of bluish-purple that is weaving into a thread, a rope almost, various strands that knot and twist to form a cord, a very barely visible cord that just drifts up towards the very top of that tower for miles. And there at the top of the tower, you see a vibrant, sparking, pulsing, purple glow. And from there, you can see two other distant strands that arc off into the very faint other edges across, triangulating around the other sides of the outskirts of this ancient city. You see the faint, glowing white-gray pulse of two other siphons affixed to two other platforms, all these strands converging at the top of the tower.
Ashley: Before we get to it, can I cast Bless on his bullets so I can give them back to him?
Matt: How long does it last?
Ashley: Not very long.
Matt: You can. There's a difference between casting a spell and enchanting something. It's a loose enchantment to Bless the ammunition. That takes a while to focus on.
Taliesin: I imagine it'll take a few days when it's done.
Ashley: When it's done.
Taliesin: I don't expect us to be in and out of here, I think this is going to take some time.
Ashley: I'd rather enchant them.
Travis: The structures to our left and our right, are they solid, do they have focus?
Matt: They're solid, they're stone buildings, they're homes, though plain and cracked. There are sections of wall missing in places. As you look about the grounds here, and you know this because you've ransacked and been responsible for the ransacking... or the rubble of Westruun. But this city appears to have been, some time long ago, under siege. You see signs of battle, you see impact, you see roofs that were burned and now lie as just black husks. This area has seen warfare long ago and the signs of it are old and it looks like the signs of life that exist in this space, the movement you see of figures in the distance wandering through the streets, there's no immediate threat to this city, but you get the sense just looking out that something big happened here a long time ago.
Travis: Any of you with the eyes, can you see what that is up in the air?
Laura: Yeah, I also want to look and see what the fuck kind of creatures it is that are moving around in the city. But I want to see what kind of creatures are flying around as well.
Matt: Okay, so you guys have moved down from the platform, and you cast Pass Without a Trace, so I'd like everyone to make a stealth check, please. Adding plus ten to your roll.
Sam: 26.
Taliesin: 22.
Marisha: 27.
Liam: 40.
Laura: 23.
Ashley: 21.
Travis: 18.
Laura: Ooh shit, you rolled bad, yo!
Matt: Okay! So, to stay stealthed, you have to find some place to be stealthy. You're not stealthing out in the middle of nowhere. Where are you going to find--
Taliesin: Towards the city.
Laura: Those buildings.
Liam: Are we temporarily staying put and talking shit out or are we going?
Taliesin: The building on the left, I'd say.
Laura: Yeah, like hide behind something.
Matt: Okay, you guys dart off to the left. It appears to have once been a two-story structure, but the upper level has since collapsed and part of it is falling into the bottom floor. As you begin to approach the doorway on the inside, Vex'ahlia, you hear what sounds like a faint crunching sound on the inside.
Travis: (nervous laughter) What the fuck? Oh my god.
Liam: (whispering) What's the matter?
Laura: (whispering) There's something in this building. (louder) Are there windows on the building, at all?
Matt: There are. There is one window on your side, and the doorway around the corner.
Laura: Peek in.
Liam: I'll look in the window with my 40 stealth.
Matt: You glance inside, and as you peek over the top, in the brief bits of light coming through the shadow in here, you can see the collapsed piles of broken stone and wood planks that used to hold the structure of the upper level together. You can see what looks like furniture that's been destroyed. Simple, basic. This is not an extravagantly decorated space. Built for function, more than anything. But moving amidst the shadow, you see what appears to be a humanoid creature of pale gray skin, elongated limbs, long, clawed fingers. Bald head, pointed, hooked ears, and what looks to be slightly broken, jagged, yellow, elongated teeth in this jaw, as it's currently munching on what looks to be a small furred rodent of some kind. (crunching)
Liam: This is probably redundant, but I will Divine Sense undead.
Matt: It is very undead.
Liam: Do I sense, see, hear anything besides this one?
Matt: What's the radius?
Liam: 60 feet.
Matt: Nothing else catches your attention, no. You watch as it finishes and walks toward the doorway. Vex'ahlia, as you're off to the side, you watch as this creature leans forward and goes into a sprint, and then leaps up onto a distant rooftop. (leaping noises) Just leaping from rooftop to rooftop. As you're watching that leap, another movement catches your eye, and you see another one about three blocks down. You can see, there are at least a handful of these creatures stalking through the ruins, leaping from building to building, from floor to floor.
Ashley: What was it eating?
Matt: A small, furred creature. You didn't get a good look at it. You got a fair look at it.
Travis: It was an otter. I love otters.
Matt: Apparently, so does the creature.
Laura: Why would there be otters in the Shadowfell?
Matt: There's something you didn't know about otters, Laura.
Marisha: They love holding hands?
Laura: Does it look like any of those scary creatures are around each other, or are they avoiding each other?
Matt: It's hard to tell at this distance. You're so far out of the city. You've only been able to notice a few shapes from this distance. You'd probably have to get in a little closer and spend some time watching their behavior to pick that up.
Liam: I'm going to crouch down by this dead rodent. Do I sense the Queen, more or less, here?
Matt: Make a wisdom check.
Liam: 18.
Matt: You close your eyes for a second. No. None.
Travis: Can I pop my head back out the door, and looking at the ground, is there any semblance of a sewer system or a runoff grate or anything?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: Oh Jesus. Yeah, bitch. Seven.
Matt: No. Not at all.
Laura: Grog! Get your head back inside.
Travis: What?
Laura: There's things flying around out there.
Travis: I'm keeping a lookout.
Taliesin: I'm going to crawl up the wall to the second floor to see what's up there.
Matt: As you go up the side and step over onto the rubble, you see a large, broken, what was once the floor of the top floor that slid into this giant decline, this slide of rubble, if you will. At the top, you can see what looks to be a broken weapon rack that is empty. No weapons on it, but you get the sense that this small structure was a perimeter tower outpost.
Taliesin: It's been cleaned out.
Matt: Apparently.
Taliesin: There's no sign of anybody who used to be here? Nothing of value, nothing of interest?
Matt: Not in the structure, no.
Taliesin: I think we're going to have to move deeper in.
Sam: Should I make us all ghoulie?
Travis: Do we notice anything strange about the little necklaces that we're wearing now that we're in this place?
Matt: Nothing at the moment, no.
Liam: Hey, you feeling good about your decision to come with us?
Sam: This is terrible. I haven't had this much fun in a long time. Let's go do it. I'll cast Seeming on us and make us all gray, pointy-eared, little Nosferatu-vampirey things, I suppose. Did I see the thing that skittered out?
Matt: Very briefly.
Sam: I've seen other undead things.
Matt: Yeah. You can make something that looks undead-adjacent.
Sam: Yeah. My guy will look more like the Meat Man in undead form, but otherwise, everyone's normal.
Laura: I want straggly, but still a braid. Really nasty, straggly hair.
Sam: Your ear's half off.
Travis: I definitely want an eyeball hanging out.
Sam: Sure.
Taliesin: Straight hole right through the head. No jaw.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: All right. What do you guys do?
Laura: I think we should probably try to observe the things that are flying around the tower.
Taliesin: Slowly make our way to the town.
Laura: Observe. Still try to avoid any of those scary creatures, but see if they avoid each other as we look at them.
Liam: Super slow, super careful.
Sam: Maybe we should stagger.
Laura: No, those things were speedy. Be normal.
Sam: We'll walk like this.
Taliesin: Left, right, left, step, step, step. (laughter)
Matt: Make a performance check. No.
Marisha: While they were looking at weapons racks and doing stuff like that--
Taliesin: You make it sound so tawdry. Carry on.
Marisha: While they were doing that, I pull Vax aside. I grab him--
Sam: Let's get married.
Laura: Let's just do it.
Marisha: Goddamn it. Scanlan's back. Listen, you can't die, and I don't know what's going on in your head, or what you're thinking, but I feel like it's not good.
Liam: I'm the best I've ever been. Don't worry about me. Worry about us.
Marisha: Has the Raven Queen spoken to you at all?
Liam: Yes.
Marisha: Recently? Down here?
Liam: Not since we got here, no, but recently.
Marisha: I need you with us. Not with her. I need you with us, and with me. So let me do this. And I'm going to burn my 9th-level spell and cast Foresight on Vax.
Sam: Ooh, Foresight!
Laura: What is that?
Sam: Shit. It's real good. (laughter)
Liam: This one goes to nine.
Laura: What is Foresight?
Marisha: Don't fuck it up, man. It's my 9th-level spell.
Matt: For the next eight hours, not concentration, you can't be surprised. You have advantage on all attack rolls, ability checks, and saving throws, and other creatures have disadvantage on attack rolls against you.
Laura: Holy shit.
Sam: You can see just in the future. Three seconds.
Laura: That's amazing!
Liam: You guys, let's go shopping! (laughter)
Travis: I raise my blood axe...
Matt: All right.
Sam: Am I going to die in three seconds? Am I going to die in three seconds? (laughter)
Taliesin: Let's make our way into town. Quietly.
Liam: Within the next eight hours.
Sam: I feel like Vax should lead the party.
Matt: All right, so are you stealthing through?
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: Still being stealthy, but yeah.
Liam: Looking cool, but stealthing.
Marisha: We look so cool.
Taliesin: We're not doing--
Laura: Matt's like, I will kill you all.
Matt: You guys scatter just enough to dart between alleys and find shaded bits and leap from base of building to alley, keeping a cohesive unit as best you can. The first thing you notice, the further in you get, even within just the first couple of blocks of the city, you see broken swords, you see pieces of armor, and you see figures walking through the street ahead of you. You see hundreds of scattered skeletons, decomposing bodies shambling through, but they all walk in patterns. They're not scattered, mindless. There is some will or direction to their movements. You see them wearing ornate armor with designs and symbols on them that look old and tarnished and scratched.
Liam: Are they moving like troops or is each individual following its own...?
Matt: Some are moving as troops, and occasionally you see an individual wander off, but they're just sort of walking around and scanning. I'm going to have Scanlan, you roll a history check, and Pike, roll a religion check.
Sam: 17. Oh! You know what, seems important, I will inspire myself. Can I do that? I haven't done this in so long.
Matt: Yeah, add a d12 to it.
Sam: 18.
Matt: Got to get the dust off, man.
Ashley: 23.
Matt: Okay. You, looking over there, a lot of the armor that these skeletons are wearing, it doesn't fit with the Shadowfell. The silvers, the golds, the tattered blue cloaks, there's something regal about some of these armor sets, as old and ancient as they may be. It doesn't seem to match the sense and feel of the Shadowfell. While you're having this thought, Pike, you glance over and look at one of these pieces of armor and you recognize the symbol, it's like a stained-glass circle with a gold star in the center. It's the symbol of Pelor. Many of these bodies, these undead wandering the city, seem to have been soldiers that fell in whatever battle that once besieged this city, and many bear the mark of Pelor.
Taliesin: I mean, the Chained--
Laura: The Chained Oblivion.
Taliesin: The Chained Oblivion, there was a fight between.
Matt: That was, but that was on the Prime Material, and that was in the vicinity of the Alabaster Sierras.
Taliesin: That mark couldn't have ended up--
Laura: Was the Shadowfell always the Shadowfell?
Taliesin: I don't know.
Sam: Maybe this city was taken somewhere else or something. Transported here.
Marisha: Does this city look like Whitestone?
Matt: No. None of the buildings, the structures, resemble Whitestone.
Sam: Is there any architecture that I, or anyone, notices, like from a region of where we've been?
Matt: No. Not really.
Sam: Mid-century modern, mostly?
Matt: Yeah, yeah, lot of Ikea. No, but you do get the sense-- some of the architecture here does resemble elements of some architecture designs that remind you of Wildemount.
Sam: Man, we should have brought Tary.
Matt: But, like, old Wildemount. Like, no modern structures, definitely from centuries back. As you continue to wander and keep your eyes out, you occasionally hear the distant (creature shrieking). You watch as the (wings flapping) winged, dark beasts are circling overhead.
Sam: Do we recognize them?
Matt: No, not yet.
Laura: Never seen anything like it?
Matt: You have not seen anything like these before. Black as night against the gray sky. From this distance, you make out no details in their bodies. It's almost like a moving shadow above you. Wherever light would hit to give you some sense of structure, it's just absence, void. It's just a flying shadow.
Taliesin: Are there any buildings that have enough structure to them where it feels like there might be things inside that have been relatively unmolested at this point?
Matt: Possibly. Make a perception check.
Taliesin: 12.
Matt: 12. I mean, there are some buildings that look like they have some structure, and the further into the city you get, the more you see that this becomes a little less destroyed. But you begin to see some figures moving that are not armored undead, not zombies, and not any of these quick-moving creatures. You see three figures walking back towards the orb where you guys came from in the same black cult robes, hoods off. They would appear to be human.
Taliesin: But they're cultists.
Matt: But they're cultists.
Laura: They don't look like they're afraid of walking around?
Liam: Yeah, what's their demeanor?
Matt: They're just walking through.
Liam: How far are they from us?
Matt: They're about 100 feet up. A little further than that.
Liam: Coming our way?
Matt: Coming your way towards the sphere where you guys were.
Ashley: Maybe that's what we need to look like.
Travis: Cover and ambush?
Liam: Or watch, see what they're doing.
Taliesin: Kill two, keep one to question?
Marisha: How many are there, three?
Matt: Three of them.
Taliesin: God, can we even kill people here? Will they die?
Liam: Yes. But do we watch, see what they do with the sphere first?
Taliesin: Let's cut them off.
Sam: I could be bait. Then you could come ambush them.
Liam: Let's watch for a moment longer.
Travis: Find cover.
Matt: Okay. So what do you guys do?
Travis: I'm going into the building.
Laura: I'm following them, just subtly.
Marisha: Yeah, let the twins go ahead first.
Matt: Okay, so the two twins follow and the rest of you duck into a building off to the side? Okay. You guys, I need you both individually to roll stealth as you tail behind them.
Laura: And we still have Pass Without a Trace on. 34.
Liam: 45.
Sam: Wait, we're staying put and they're walking off somewhere else? How are we going to see what's going to happen?
Travis: They were walking towards us.
Matt: The cultists are basically walking past you guys, going the opposite direction of where you were traveling, and both the twins just vanish from sight. You're like, "Well what if-- Gone again." You guys pace behind them, jumping from alley to alley. Occasionally they'll stop and do a walk over. There's not a sense of paranoia, but they're very watchful. Their attire, while still cult robes, is a little more intricately adorned, and you see the one in the front is carrying a hanging lantern that gives off this weird smoke behind it, like a censer.
Travis: A censer?
Liam: Yeah, like a Catholic.
Matt: Yeah. But it gives off this faint glow, and they walk and make their way slowly outside of the city towards the pillar where the orb is. And they just look around it, walk over to the few buildings to the side, divide a little bit to a perimeter, reconvene at the base of the orb, and begin making their way back to the center of the city.
Laura: Is there anything else around? Should we kill them?
Liam: All three? Take one? Kill two, leave one?
Sam: We can ambush them.
Laura: Get ready for an ambush.
Taliesin: When they walk by the house, push them.
Laura: When they walk past you guys, we'll attack.
Sam: Should I put someone out there to confuse them?
Liam: No. When we go, follow suit.
Marisha: I can Grasping Vine one into the building, right into Grog's hands.
Laura: Wait until we attack them first.
Matt: All right. The three of them walk back, leaving a small censer trail behind. The smoke, the almost incense-like smoke, burns off within a few feet after. They eventually cross right next to the doorway and window to where the rest of you are waiting. Both of you guys roll for an attack. Are you aiming at two different ones? Same one?
Laura: Two different ones. And it's an automatic...
Matt: It's an automatic crit if you hit, and you have advantage on the hit because they don't see you.
Laura: Natural 20. Not that it matters, because I already got a crit.
Matt: But still, it's nice.
Liam: 26.
Matt: 26. Both hit. Go ahead and roll damage, both of you, doubling your weapon die damage and your sneak attack.
Laura: Bramble shot.
Sam: There's three of them, right?
Matt: Three of them, yes... You also double the bramble shot damage because it's a crit.
Sam: Hey, look, we're killing things! Well, maybe.
Taliesin: Incapacitating, at the very least.
Liam: 85.
Laura: Oh, shit, dude.
Sam: 85?
Matt: 85 damage. Rogues, man. It's what they do.
Taliesin: The head is cleaved from the body.
Laura: 56 for me.
Sam: It was Kima and Allura on a mission. They're dead.
Matt: As the three of them walk, the two on the outside both, at the same time, (impacts), crumple. No noise, just fall to their knees, face down on the ground, unmoving. The one in the center that's holding the censer turns and looks back and sees--
Marisha: And I go (whoosh) and Grasping Vine him, and throw him right into Grog's hands.
Laura: Don't kill him!
Travis: And if he's successfully thrown, I just cover his mouth and grab the back of his head and squeeze.
Sam: Which mouth?
Travis: Ew, God.
Matt: That is a 16.
Marisha: Fail.
Matt: Fail. That's right, because 21. So as soon as he turns around, out of one of the cracks in the stonework nearby, you can see some dry, grass-like gray brush. There is what appears to be some faint hints of local plant life, but it all looks like gray, dry grass. Or, you know after a morning freeze, when you see elements of a field that have that weird, textured, almost water plant look to it? It's clusters of that, but curled. And one of those whips out with this one, long, grayish, almost fleshy-looking vine that wraps around it and yanks it inside the house. (grunt) Gets yanked in. Grog, you catch him.
Travis: Cover his mouth.
Liam: Like clockwork.
Matt: Go ahead and make an athletics check, Grog.
Travis: Oh, that's a million. 26.
Matt: He struggles against your grasp, and it's nothing. It's like holding a baby in your arms.
Travis: Percy, will you give him a reminder not to move?
Taliesin: Oh, yes, this will be fun. I take out a small, three-inch steel ball. I look him right in the eye, and go, Manners. And I toss the steel ball at our friend. The iron bands.
Matt: Okay. What does he have to save on that?
Taliesin: I actually make a ranged attack roll.
Matt: Okay, make a ranged attack roll. d20 plus your dexterity. You have advantage because he's currently restrained by Grog.
Taliesin: Makes me feel better. Thank God. That's still fine. 23.
Matt: Okay, so as you chuck it the three feet, it impacts, and you watch as the orb swells and expands, and all of these chain-like plates of dark, reddish iron metal wrap around him, constraining his hands, his legs, and locking him into place around his jaw and his head and his mouth.
Taliesin: Excellent.
Laura: Can he still talk?
Travis: Yeah, when I take my hand off his mouth.
Taliesin: This thing will allow him to talk. I believe this thing has a...
Matt: It has a little slit that you can remove to the side.
Liam: It's got a gimp hole?
Matt: All good magical items do, Liam. That's what you call an artifact.
Taliesin: I give him a second to sit and I wait until we're all inside.
Matt: Okay. You guys both attacked.
Laura: Pull the bodies inside.
Matt: First make a stealth check, because you both exposed yourselves with the attack, and there are creatures overhead shrieking.
Taliesin: With advantage. He has advantage.
Liam: Plus Pass Without Trace.
Laura: 35.
Liam: 37, that's kind of low for me.
Matt: Okay. You watch as one swoops nearby, and you hear the (shrieking), and you guys dart by. Doesn't seem to take notice. You drop back into the building, and there you see your quarry now bolted to himself through a series of dark iron metal plates.
Travis: Our quarry, does he have two eyes?
Matt: He does not have both eyes. Left eye is missing. You see him now. This is a man in his mid-40s, salt and pepper hair, seems to be an unkempt beard around his chin. Hair is maybe about ear-length, a little tattered now since he's been roughed up and manhandled a bit. His skin's a bit yellowed, a little jaundiced. You get the sense he's probably been living here for quite some time, and he doesn't look healthy.
Laura: I grab the thing that was making the smoke and bring it.
Matt: The smell is awful. It's hard to differentiate from the general smell of decay and dust that this entire realm seems to be suffused with, but the smoke that billows off of this is like fresh putrescence, mixed with a very, very strong charcoal.
Taliesin: This may be how they move freely.
Laura: That's what I'm thinking. We hide the bodies. We'll bring the bodies inside, too, so that nobody sees them.
Liam: Press him.
Taliesin: I'm going to let you speak, and we're going to have a conversation. Given where you are, the circumstances that we find you in, I'm going to let you know that there is a curse upon my weapon, and the souls that are killed with this weapon are claimed by a demon named Orthax. Now, I haven't experimented as to what happens when somebody's soul is claimed by more than one creature, but I'm excited to find out. So wouldn't it be interesting if everything you've been promised here is suddenly null and void? So, yes, we may threaten your life, but I want you to know that what's really at stake here is just precisely what's left of your soul, so answer with caution. And I unlock.
Matt: Roll an intimidation check.
Travis: That was nasty, it was real good.
Taliesin: Fucking dice. No love on that one. Terrible. Eight.
Matt: You unlock, and he just goes (laughs) "I don't have to tell you anything."
Liam: I punch him in the temple.
Matt: "This pain is meager. I've felt far worse. I've given myself far worse. Pry and poke all you want."
Liam: I punch him in the mouth.
Taliesin: This sort of thing isn't going to get us anywhere. Pike. Think you can give him back his eye?
Laura: Oh, that's a good idea.
Sam: You're going to use a carrot?
Liam: No, that's the stick.
Marisha: Do you have Regenerate with you?
Ashley: I do.
Laura: Separate him from his god.
Ashley: I put my hand over his eye.
Matt: He doesn't flinch.
Laura: Do it.
Ashley: Are you ready to have your eye back?
Matt: "I'll just pluck it right back out."
Ashley: Well, you can't. Because you're just going to stay in these binds forever.
Liam: Or Grog will pull your arms off.
Matt: "Do your worst."
Laura: No, he's not scared of pain.
Travis: Just ask him some questions before the fun begins. Let's see what he answers with.
Laura: Do you know Delilah Briarwood?
Matt: "Maybe. The fact that you're already here means that you have no way out, so I fear not. Even if I perish, I die with the comfort of knowing that you'll perish soon after. That is the comfort in the Whispered One."
Laura: Vecna.
Matt: "So you knowingly came here. You are both foolish and simple."
Travis: No, that's just me.
Matt: "So you said you have questions."
Travis: What's flying around in the sky?
Matt: "The sentinels."
Travis: Sentinels.
Matt: "That is what they are for us, but they are known more formally as Gloom Stalkers."
Travis: Gloom Stalkers. That is a great name.
Matt: "They are hungry. Ever hungry."
Travis: They also look fearsome. Do people cower before them in their presence?
Matt: "You will."
Travis: I'll bet. I am easily startled.
Taliesin: Where are you from?
Matt: "It does not matter. The past means nothing when you give up your secrets."
Taliesin: The ziggurats, there's three of them. You've come through the Wildemount one?
Matt: He shakes his head. "You will get no information from me."
Sam: All right. Can I have a try? You've got one eye, right? Ugh.
Matt: You see the gaping socket, and as he goes to blink one eye, you can see the marking on the inside, it looks like it was burned out, so you watch the outer edge of the flesh and muscle twitch whenever he blinks.
Sam: Gross ocular muscles. I just want to make you feel good, man, so I'll just sing to you. I'll hold up my cone, and I'll sing, (singing) Just the two of us. You can't quit me if you tried. Just the two of us. Me and your eye. So I'll Dominate Person.
Travis: He's back.
Matt: That is... That's an 11. All right. His grin glazes over and he goes...
Sam: Will you please tell us everything you know when we ask you?
Matt: "But of course."
Sam: Where are you from?
Matt: "I am from the outskirts of a far eastern Wildemount village named Zuvan. It was built on the ruins of Orthanus. I was a poor man, but I found purpose."
Sam: Did you come through a ziggurat in Wildemount? And if so, where?
Matt: "I don't know. I was taken with many others who had given themselves to the secrets of the Undying King. I awoke here, mauled but living, and was inducted, and that was when he took my eye."
Sam: He?
Matt: "He. One of the acolytes."
Sam: The flying things. Well, we know what they are now.
Travis: What do they do?
Sam: Do the flying things have magical powers?
Matt: "I do not know. They shriek, they eat, they watch. I do not mess with such terrible and wonderful instruments."
Ashley: How does he get through all the dead?
Sam: The smoke-making thing that you were carrying. What is it and how does it work?
Matt: "It protects those of us who are not as esteemed in the arts of necromancy to not be bothered by the roving, long-dead soldiers of the last war on Thar Amphala."
Sam: The last war on Thar Amphala! What does that mean?
Laura: I don't know!
Sam: What does that mean?
Marisha: The last war on what?
Matt: Thar Amphala. Thar Amphala, the city built for the Whispered One, long ago.
Sam: Oh, that's where we are.
Laura: Who lives in the tower, Vecna? Is that where he is?
Matt: He just looks at you strangely.
Liam: It's got to come from him.
Laura: I'm a really good friend of his.
Sam: She really is, that's being rude. But who lives in the tower? Is it Vecna or Mistress Delilah?
Matt: "It's where his essence has slowly reclaimed the space. He will live soon."
Laura: Oh, but he's not back yet!
Sam: The Mistress Delilah. Where is she right now?
Matt: "I have not seen her, but if she is not out, then perhaps the ritual is soon. She is probably at the top of Entropis."
Sam: Entropis is the tower?
Matt: "Yes."
Marisha: That tower?
Sam: The only tower.
Travis: What other alarms are there in the city that would detect outsiders?
Sam: What protections do you have on the tower?
Matt: "I do not know the specifics. I am but a watcher on the outside of Thar Amphala."
Sam: You don't go in?
Matt: "I have not gone in since I gave my eye."
Sam: And what are your people called? Your group, your cult?
Matt: "We are the Remnants."
Ashley: What's his purpose?
Sam: What's your job with the Remnants?
Matt: "I am to watch the outskirts of the city. I am to escort those who would bring various things in preparation for the ritual."
Laura: What ritual? What is the ritual going to do?
Sam: What will the ritual do?
Matt: "The ritual is to restore him. To bring him, so that he can complete the main purpose. The ritual of seeding."
Sam: He's just a farmer, guys.
Liam: How does Delilah factor into it? What does she get out of it? What does she do?
Sam: I don't think he knows all of the intricacies.
Liam: I know, but he's probably promised them all something.
Sam: What has Delilah promised you? What do you gain out of this?
Matt: "When he, the Undying King, returns to this world, and we bring what we have gained, what we have brought from the other plane, that seed will be taken to the ritual of the space."
Laura: What have they brought?
Sam: Did you bring something through the portal? What was it?
Matt: "I do not understand the details, but for many months now, these siphons, they have been building the seed. They have been preparing for his return. And from there, he will complete what he started so long ago."
Laura: And that shit's happening soon?
Sam: When does the ritual begin?
Matt: "Soon. Things accelerate."
Sam: I know we look different now, but if you had to pick one of us, which is the most handsome?
Matt: "That would be you, my friend."
Sam: I thought so.
Travis: Can he take us safely to the tower?
Sam: Can you escort us to the tower? Dominate Person has got to be wearing off.
Matt: I'm checking the spell just to be sure.
Laura: We have a thing. We can at least get through town.
Sam: One minute. It's probably over.
Matt: Yeah. So by about now, after these questions have come through, his one eye blinks, and he goes, (grunt), "It matters not. He already knows you're here."
Liam: I punch him in the temple again.
Laura: He likes it. Stop giving him pleasure.
Travis: I poke him in his remaining eyeball.
Matt: Do you? Roll a strength check.
Liam: A strength check? For some Jello?
Travis: Oh God. 25.
Matt: (shriek of pain)
Taliesin: I close the mouth.
Matt: There is a smear of crimson down his face as the other eye has just been turned to paste.
Laura: Wow, we're terrible people.
Travis: Oh, what was that? It matters not? Oh, are you going to be rewarded? Yeah. How many middle fingers am I holding up?
Laura: We should put him out of his misery.
Travis: Why? I like misery.
Sam: Well, if we just release him into the city without his censer...
Liam: He's going to stumble out like a maniac. Squish the bug, Grog.
Sam: No, no. If we send him away from us, maybe one of those things will find him and we'll have a clearer path.
Travis: He's yelling. He'll make all sorts of sound.
Sam: Yeah, if we send him away from us and then we go the other way. He's a human distraction!
Taliesin: We don't need a distraction, we need quiet at this point.
Liam: And those things, we don't know if they could alert back if they saw something fishy like that.
Taliesin: I'll release him and you do your business, all right? Manners.
Matt: (mechanical clicking) It all unfolds and returns into the sphere.
Travis: Great word.
Taliesin: Thank you. It's programmable.
Travis: Should we let you back out so you can find your way back?
Matt: "Do your worst."
Travis: (crack)
Matt: With a sickening snap, you can hear as the spinal column is severed at the base of the neck, and he goes limp in Grog's grasp.
Ashley: Grab his necklace in case we need another one for some reason.
Laura: Should we grab any cloaks?
Taliesin: Grab the necklaces and the cloaks and the censer. All three of them.
Matt: Actually, he has almost nothing on him but the censer.
Marisha: No necklace?
Matt: He has-- Actually, no, he would not have one of the necklaces. Because he does not...
Marisha: Travel through?
Matt: He has a symbol, a similar symbol, but it's much smaller, more just a basic holy symbol of some kind. Same shape, but it doesn't have the same thick iron presentation as the ones that you guys encountered.
Laura: I have a holy symbol to Vecna that we took off of somebody in the original ziggurat.
Matt: Yes, and that is the same symbol.
Laura: It is, okay.
Liam: We're in an ancient city. Are there the remains of furniture in here?
Laura: I just want to take a nap or a cozy sit-down.
Liam: No, I want to shove him in a closet or wrap him up in something.
Travis: I'm putting him in the Bag of Holding as you're talking.
Taliesin: We can't keep everything.
Liam: Does anybody see any-- Never mind.
Taliesin: Is there anything of interest in this building, since we have a moment?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Liam: I'm going to investigate, too, because I was looking for furniture.
Taliesin: 15.
Liam: And I have advantage, hold on. Investigation... 22.
Matt: Okay. You do find some furniture. Most of it's very basic, tables, maybe a couple chairs, a couple of cots that are mainly wood boards with a thin cushion on it. The existence here was not to be-- It's a very plain city of worship. You can see everything was built here to gather worshipers, to gather the Remnants, or whatever they were called before, the last time that Vecna fell and the city was assaulted.
Liam: Right, so this is all worse than Fallout Three at this point.
Matt: It's on par with.
Liam: PlayStation Three graphics.
Taliesin: I say we make our way towards the spire.
Matt: So now, still under the guise of various undead, holding a wandering burning censer procured from the now-dead, eye-popped corpse of a wandering cultist, you slowly make your way deeper into the city of Thar Amphala, towards the tower of Entropis, where seemingly the cult of the Remnant are attempting to bring Vecna back to physical form for an even greater ritual thereafter. And that's where we'll finish tonight's episode. We'll return next week to pick up from there, guys.
Laura: This is amazing!
Travis: This is the best setup ever!
Matt: So happy. I know! I get to touch people's hands!
Liam: Dorks!
Matt: I know, we're such huge nerds. This feels so much like the home game, it makes me happy.
Liam: Serious deja vu.
Taliesin: All it needs is honey and brie.
Laura: We could put food out in front of us!
Matt: Next week, pajamas and mimosas. What better way to celebrate a Vecna arc in the Shadowfell?
Liam: Bring your dog to work day!
Taliesin: PJ's, mimosas, and very old puppies?
Liam: And Charlie? Can Charlie come?
Laura: I think it's necessary.
Taliesin: Charlie can run Trinket.
Matt: So guys, thank you so much. We're back next week. I want to give another big thank you to the amazing crew and people here at Legendary/Geek and Sundry that have been working almost around the clock to make this set work, to make this table work, to make the equipment work, the lighting, the audio. We've taken all of your suggestions, we've reached out to the community, to try and make this as best and as comfortable as possible for us and you guys. I know it's a work in progress, and you'll watch things improve as we go, as we learn and figure things out, so thank you for your patience. But seriously, if you get the opportunity, show some appreciation for the people who've been working really hard to try and improve this experience for everyone involved. Thank you guys, you're all so amazing. (cheers)
Matt: In the meantime, I want to tell you all, I love you very much. Happy 101st episode. And is it Thursday yet? Good night, guys! [art]

[END OF EPISODE]